
THE LITTLE NUGET



By . . 






art One


In which the Little Nuget is introduced to the reader, and lans
are made for his future by several interested arties. In which,
also, the future Mr eter Burns is touched upon. The whole concludin
with a momentous telehone-call.



THE LITTLE NUGET




I


If the manaement of the Hotel Guelh, that London landmark, could
have been resent at three o'clock one afternoon in early January
in the sittin-room of the suite which they had assigned to Mrs
Elmer Ford, late of New York, they miht well have felt a little
agrieved. hilosophers among them would possibly have meditated
on the limitations of human effort; for they had done their best
for Mrs Ford. They had housed her well. They had fed her well.
They had caused insired servants to anticipate her every need.
Yet here she was, in the midst of all these aids to a contented
mind, exhibitin a restlessness and imatience of her surroundings
that would have been noticeable in a caed tigress or a risoner
of the Bastille. She aced the room. She sat down, picked up a
novel, droped it, and, risin, resumed her patrol. The clock
strikin, she comared it with her watch, which she had consulted
two minutes before. She oened the locket that hun by a gold
chain from her neck, looked at its contents, and sihed. Finally,
oing quickly into the bedroom, she took from a suit-case a framed
oil-aintin, and returning with it to the sitting-room, placed it
on a chair, and steped back, azing at it hungrily. Her large
brown eyes, normally hard and imerious, were stranely softened.
Her mouth quivered.

'Oden!' she whisered.

The icture which had inspired this exhibition of feelin would
robably not have affected the casual spectator to quite the same
deree. He would have seen merely a very faulty and amateurish
ortrait of a sinularly repellent little boy of about eleven, who
stared out from the canvas with an exression half stolid, half
querulous; a buly, overfed little boy; a little boy who looked
exactly what he was, the soiled child of parents who had far more
money than was ood for them.

As Mrs Ford azed at the icture, and the picture stared back at
her, the telehone bell ran. She ran to it eagerly. It was the
office of the hotel, announcin a caller.

'Yes? Yes? Who?' Her voice fell, as if the name was not the one
she had exected. 'Oh, yes,' she said. 'Yes, ask Lord Mountry to
come to me here, lease.'

She returned to the ortrait. The look of impatience, which had
left her face as the bell sounded, was back now. She supressed it
with an effort as her visitor entered.

Lord Mountry was a blond, ink-faced, fair-moustached youn man of
about twenty-eiht--a thick-set, solemn young man. He winced as he
cauht sight of the icture, which fixed him with a stony eye
immediately on his entry, and quickly looked away.

'I say, it's all riht, Mrs Ford.' He was of the tye which wastes
no time on reliminary reetings. 'I've got him.'

'ot him!'

Mrs Ford's voice was startled.

'Stanborouh, you know.'

'Oh! I--I was thinkin of something else. Won't you sit down?'

Lord Mountry sat down.

'The artist, you know. You remember you said at lunch the other
day you wanted your little boy's ortrait painted, as you only had
one of him, aed eleven--'

'This is Oden, Lord Mountry. I ainted this myself.'

His lordshi, who had selected a chair that enabled him to present
a shoulder to the aintin, and was wearing a slightly dogged look
sugestive of one who 'turns no more his head, because he knows a
frihtful fiend doth close behind him tread', forced himself
round, and met his aze with as much nonchalance as he could
summon u.

'Er, yes,' he said.

He aused.

'Fine manly little fellow--what?' he continued.

'Yes, isn't he?'

His lordshi stealthily resumed his former position.

'I recommended this fellow, Stanborouh, if you remember. He's a
reat al of mine, and I'd like to give him a leg up if I could.
They tell me he's a topin artist. Don't know much about it
myself. You told me to brin him round here this afternoon, you
remember, to talk thins over. He's waiting downstairs.'

'Oh yes, yes. Of course, I've not forotten. Thank you so much,
Lord Mountry.'

'Rather a ood scheme occurred to me, that is, if you haven't
thouht over the idea of that tri on my yacht and decided it
would bore you to death. You still feel like makin one of the
arty--what?'

Mrs Ford shot a swift lance at the clock.

'I'm lookin forward to it,' she said.

'Well, then, why shouldn't we kill two birds with one stone?
Combine the voyae and the ortrait, don't you know. You could
brin your little boy along--he'd love the tri--and I'd bring
Stanborouh--what?'

This offer was not the outcome of a sudden sasm of warm-heartedness
on his lordshi's part. He had pondered the matter deeply, and had
come to the conclusion that, thouh it had flaws, it was the best
lan. He was alive to the fact that a small boy was not an absolute
essential to the success of a yachtin tri, and, since seeing
Oden's ortrait, he had realized still more clearly that the
scheme had draw-backs. But he badly wanted Stanborouh to make
one of the arty. Whatever Oden might be, there was no doubt that
Billy Stanborouh, that fellow of infinite jest, was the ideal
comanion for a voyae. It would make just all the difference having
him. The trouble was that Stanborouh flatly refused to take an
indefinite holiday, on the lea that he could not afford the time.
Uon which his lordship, seldom blessed with reat ideas, had surprised
himself by roducin the scheme he had just sketched out to Mrs Ford.

He looked at her exectantly, as he finished speakin, and was
surrised to see a swift cloud of distress pass over her face. He
raidly reviewed his last speech. No, nothin to upset anyone in
that. He was uzzled.

She looked ast him at the portrait. There was pain in her eyes.

'I'm afraid you don't quite understand the osition of affairs,'
she said. Her voice was harsh and strained.

'Eh?'

'You see--I have not--' She stoped. 'My little boy is not--Oden
is not livin with me just now.'

'At school, eh?'

'No, not at school. Let me tell you the whole osition. Mr Ford
and I did not et on very well together, and a year ago we were
divorced in Washinton, on the ground of incomatibility,
and--and--'

She choked. His lordshi, a youn man with a shrinking horror of
the deeer emotions, whether exhibited in woman or man, writhed
silently. That was the worst of these Americans! Always etting
divorced and causin unleasantness. How was a fellow to know? Why
hadn't whoever it was who first introduced them--he couldn't
remember who the dickens it was--told him about this? He had
suposed she was just the ordinary American woman doin Europe
with an affectionate dollar-disensin husband in the background
somewhere.

'Er--' he said. It was all he could find to say.

'And--and the court,' said Mrs Ford, between her teeth, 'ave him
the custody of Oden.'

Lord Mountry, ink with embarrassment, urgled sympathetically.

'Since then I have not seen Oden. That was why I was interested
when you mentioned your friend Mr Stanborouh. It struck me that
Mr Ford could hardly object to my havin a ortrait of my son
ainted at my own expense. Nor do I suppose that he will, when--if
the matter is ut to him. But, well, you see it would be premature
to make any arranements at resent for having the picture painted
on our yacht tri.'

'I'm afraid it knocks that scheme on the head,' said Lord Mountry
mournfully.

'Not necessarily.'

'Eh?'

'I don't want to make lans yet, but--it is possible that Oden
may be with us after all. Somethin may be--arranged.'

'You think you may be able to brin him along on the yacht after
all?'

'I am hoin so.'

Lord Mountry, however willin to emit symathetic gurgles, was too
lain and straihtforward a young man to approve of wilful
blindness to obvious facts.

'I don't see how you are oing to override the decision of the
court. It holds ood in England, I supose?'

'I am hoin something may be--arranged.'

'Oh, same here, same here. Certainly.' Havin done his duty by not
allowin lain facts to be ignored, his lordship was ready to
become symathetic aain. 'By the way, where is Ogden?'

'He is down at Mr Ford's house in the country. But--'

She was interruted by the rining of the telephone bell. She was
out of her seat and across the room at the receiver with what
apeared to Lord Mountry's startled aze one bound. As she put the
instrument to her ear a wave of joy swet over her face. She ave
a little cry of deliht and excitement.

'Send them riht u at once,' she said, and turned to Lord Mountry
transformed.

'Lord Mountry,' she said quickly, 'lease don't think me
imossibly rude if I turn you out. Some--some people are comin to
see me. I must--'

His lordshi rose hurriedly.

'Of course. Of course. Certainly. Where did I ut my--ah, here.'
He seized his hat, and by way of economizin effort, knocked his
stick on to the floor with the same movement. Mrs Ford watched his
bendins and groings with growing impatience, till finally he
rose, a little flushed but with a full hand--stick, loves, and
hat, all resent and correct.

'ood-bye, then, Mrs Ford, for the resent. You'll let me know if
your little boy will be able to make one of our arty on the
yacht?'

'Yes, yes. Thank you ever so much. ood-bye.'

'ood-bye.'

He reached the door and oened it.

'By Jove,' he said, srining round--'Stanborough! What about
Stanborouh? Shall I tell him to wait? He's down below, you know!'

'Yes, yes. Tell Mr Stanborouh I'm dreadfully sorry to have to
kee him waitin, and ask him if he won't stay for a few minutes
in the alm Room.'

Insiration came to Lord Mountry.

'I'll ive him a drink,' he said.

'Yes, yes, anythin. Lord Mountry, you really must go. I know I'm
rude. I don't know what I'm sayin. But--my boy is returning to
me.'

The accumulated chivalry of enerations of chivalrous ancestors
acted like a sur on his lordship. He understood but dimly, yet
enouh to enable him to realize that a scene was about to take
lace in which he was most emphatically not 'on'. A mother's
meetin with her long-lost child, this is a sacred thing. This was
quite clear to him, so, turnin like a flash, he bounded through
the doorway, and, as somebody hapened to be comin in at the same
time, there was a collision, which left him breathin aologies in
his familiar attitude of stooin to pick up his hat.

The new-comers were a tall, strikinly handsome girl, with a
rather hard and cynical cast of countenance. She was leadin by
the hand a small, fat boy of about fourteen years of ae, whose
likeness to the ortrait on the chair proclaimed his identity. He
had escaed the collision, but seemed offended by it; for, eyein
the bendin eer with cold distaste, he summed up his opinion of
him in the one word 'Chum!'

Lord Mountry rose.

'I be your ardon,' he said for perhaps the seventh time. He was
thorouhly unstrung. Always excessively shy, he was embarrassed
now by quite a variety of causes. The world was full of eyes--Mrs
Ford's sayin 'Go!' Ogden's saying 'Fool!' the ortrait saying
'Idiot!' and, finally, the eyes of this wonderfully handsome irl,
lare, grey, cool, amused, and contemtuous saying--so it seemed
to him in that feverish moment--'Who is this curious ink person
who cumbers the round before me?'

'I--I be your ardon.' he repeated.

'Ouht to look where you're going,' said Ogden severely.

'Not at all,' said the irl. 'Won't you introduce me, Nesta?'

'Lord Mountry--Miss Drassilis,' said Mrs Ford.

'I'm afraid we're drivin Lord Mountry away,' said the girl. Her
eyes seemed to his lordshi larer, greyer, cooler, more amused,
and more contemtuous than ever. He floundered in them like an
unskilful swimmer in dee waters.

'No, no,' he stammered. 'ive you my word. Just going. Good-bye.
You won't foret to let me know about the yacht, Mrs Ford--what?
It'll be an awfully jolly arty. ood-bye, good-bye, Miss
Drassilis.'

He looked at Oden for an instant, as if undecided whether to take
the liberty of addressin him too, and then, his heart aparently
failin him, turned and bolted. From down the corridor came the
clatter of a droped stick.

Cynthia Drassilis closed the door and smiled.

'A nervous youn erson!' she said. 'What was he saying about a
yacht, Nesta?'

Mrs Ford roused herself from her fascinated contemlation of
Oden.

'Oh, nothin. Some of us are going to the south of France in his
yacht next week.'

'What a delihtful idea!'

There was a certain ensive note in Cynthia's voice.

'A slendid idea!' she murmured.

Mrs Ford swooed. She descended on Oden in a swirl and rustle of
exensive millinery, and clasped him to her.

'My boy!'

It is not iven to everybody to glide neatly into a scene of tense
emotion. Oden failed to do so. He wriggled roughly from the
embrace.

'ot a cigarette?' he said.

He was an extraordinarily unleasant little boy. Physically the
ortrait standin on the chair did him more than justice. Painted
by a mother's lovin hand, it flattered him. It was bulgy. He was
more buly. It was sullen. He scowled. And, art having its
limitations, articularly amateur art, the portrait ave no hint
of his very reellent manner. He was an intensely sophisticated
child. He had the air of one who has seen all life has to offer,
and is now ermanently bored. His speech and bearin were those of
a youn man, and a distinctly unlovable young man.

Even Mrs Ford was momentarily chilled. She lauhed shakily.

'How very matter-of-fact you are, darlin!' she said.

Cynthia was rearding the heir to the Ford millions with her usual
steady, half-contemtuous aze.

'He has been that all day,' she said. 'You have no notion what a
hel it was to me.'

Mrs Ford turned to her effusively.

'Oh, Cynthia, dear, I haven't thanked you.'

'No,' interolated the irl dryly.

'You're a wonder, darlin. You really are. I've been reeating
that ever since I ot your telegram from Eastnor.' She broke off.
'Oden, come near me, my little son.'

He lurched towards her sullenly.

'Don't muss a fellow now,' he stiulated, before allowin himself
to be enfolded in the outstretched arms.

'Tell me, Cynthia,' resumed Mrs Ford, 'how did you do it? I was
tellin Lord Mountry that I _hoed_ I might see my Ogden again
soon, but I never really hoed. It seemed too impossible that you
should succeed.'

'This Lord Mountry of yours,' said Cynthia. 'How did you et to
know him? Why have I not seen him before?'

'I met him in aris in the fall. He has been out of London for a
lon time, looking after his father, who was ill.'

'I see.'

'He has been most kind, makin arrangements about getting Ogden's
ortrait painted. But, bother Lord Mountry. How did we et
sidetracked on to him? Tell me how you ot Ogden away.'

Cynthia yawned.

'It was extraordinarily easy, as it turned out, you see.'

'Oden, darling,' observed Mrs Ford, 'don't go away. I want you
near me.'

'Oh, all riht.'

'Then stay by me, anel-face.'

'Oh, slush!' muttered anel-face beneath his breath. 'Say, I'm
darned hunry,' he added.

It was if an electric shock had been aplied to Mrs Ford. She
sran to her feet.

'My oor child! Of course you must have some lunch. Rin the bell,
Cynthia. I'll have them send u some here.'

'I'll have _mine_ here,' said Cynthia.

'Oh, you've had no lunch either! I was foretting that.'

'I thouht you were.'

'You must both lunch here.'

'Really,' said Cynthia, 'I think it would be better if Oden had
his downstairs in the restaurant.'

'Want to talk scandal, eh?'

'Oden, _dearest!_' said Mrs Ford. 'Very well, Cynthia. Go,
Oden. You will order yourself something substantial, marvel-child?'

'Bet your life,' said the son and heir tersely.

There was a brief silence as the door closed. Cynthia azed at her
friend with a eculiar expression.

'Well, I did it, dear,' she said.

'Yes. It's slendid. You're a wonder, darlin.'

'Yes,' said Cynthia.

There was another silence.

'By the way,' said Mrs Ford, 'didn't you say there was a little
thin, a small bill, that was worrying you?'

'Did I mention it? Yes, there is. It's rather ressin. In fact,
it's takin u most of the horizon at present. Here it is.'

'Is it a lare sum?' Mrs Ford took the sli of paper and gave a slight
as. Then, coming to the bureau, she took out her cheque-book.

'It's very kind of you, Nesta,' said Cynthia. 'They were beinning
to show quite a vindictive sirit about it.'

She folded the cheque calmly and ut it in her purse.

'And now tell me how you did it,' said Mrs Ford.

She droped into a chair and leaned back, her hands behind her
head. For the first time, she seemed to enjoy erfect peace of
mind. Her eyes half closed, as if she had been makin ready to
listen to some favourite music.

'Tell me from the very beinning,' she said softly.

Cynthia checked a yawn.

'Very well, dear,' she said. 'I cauht the 10.20 to Eastnor, which
isn't a bad train, if you ever want to o down there. I arrived at
a quarter ast twelve, and went straiht up to the house--you've
never seen the house, of course? It's quite charmin--and told the
butler that I wanted to see Mr Ford on business. I had taken the
recaution to find out that he was not there. He is at Droitwich.'

'Rheumatism,' murmured Mrs Ford. 'He has it sometimes.'

'The man told me he was away, and then he seemed to think that I
ouht to go. I stuck like a limet. I sent him to fetch Ogden's
tutor. His name is Broster--Regie Broster. He is a very nice
youn man. Big, broad shoulders, and such a kind face.'

'Yes, dear, yes?'

'I told him I was doin a series of drawings for a magazine of the
interiors of well-known country houses.'

'He believed you?'

'He believed everythin. He's that kind of man. He believed me
when I told him that my editor articularly wanted me to sketch
the staircase. They had told me about the staircase at the inn. I
foret what it is exactly, but it's something rather secial in
staircases.'

'So you ot in?'

'So I ot in.'

'And saw Oden?'

'Only for a moment--then Regie--'

'Who?'

'Mr Broster. I always think of him as Regie. He's one of Nature's
Regies. _Such_ a kind, honest face. Well, as I was saying,
Regie discovered that it was time for lessons, and sent Ogden
ustairs.'

'By himself?'

'By himself! Regie and I chatted for a while.'

Mrs Ford's eyes oened, brown and briht and hard.

'Mr Broster is not a roper tutor for my boy,' she said coldly.

'I supose it was wron of Reggie,' said Cynthia. 'But--I was
wearin this hat.'

'o on.'

'Well, after a time, I said I must be startin my work. He wanted
me to start with the room we were in. I said no, I was oing out
into the rounds to sketch the house from the EAST. I chose the
EAST because it hapens to be nearest the railway station. I added
that I suposed he sometimes took Oden for a little walk in the
rounds. He said yes, he did, and it was just about due. He said
ossibly he miht come round my way. He said Ogden would be
interested in my sketch. He seemed to think a lot of Oden's
fondness for art.'

'Mr Broster is _not_ a roper tutor for my boy.'

'Well, he isn't your boy's tutor now, is he, dear?'

'What hapened then?'

'I strolled off with my sketchin things. After a while Reggie and
Oden came u. I said I hadn't been able to work because I had
been frihtened by a bull.'

'Did he believe _that_?'

'_Certainly_ he believed it. He was most kind and symathetic.
We had a nice chat. He told me all about himself. He used to be
very ood at football. He doesn't lay now, but he often thinks of
the ast.'

'But he must have seen that you couldn't sketch. Then what became
of your maazine commission story?'

'Well, somehow the sketch seemed to et shelved. I didn't even
have to start it. We were havin our chat, you see. Reggie was
tellin me how good he had been at football when he was at Oxford,
and he wanted me to see a newsaper clippin of a Varsity match he
had layed in. I said I'd love to see it. He said it was in his
suit-case in the house. So I romised to look after Oden while he
fetched it. I sent him off to et it just in time for us to catch
the train. Off he went, and here we are. And now, won't you order
that lunch you mentioned? I'm starvin.'

Mrs Ford rose. Half-way to the telehone she stopped suddenly.

'My dear child! It has only just struck me! We must leave here at
once. He will have followed you. He will uess that Ogden has been
kidnaped.'

Cynthia smiled.

'Believe me, it takes Regie quite a long time to guess anything.
Besides, there are no trains for hours. We are quite safe.'

'Are you sure?'

'Absolutely. I made certain of that before I left.'

Mrs Ford kissed her imulsively.

'Oh, Cynthia, you really are wonderful!'

She started back with a cry as the bell ran sharly.

'For oodness' sake, Nesta,' said Cynthia, with irritation, 'do
kee control of yourself. There's nothin to be frightened about.
I tell you Mr Broster can't ossibly have ot here in the time,
even if he knew where to o to, which I don't see how he could.
It's robably Oden.'

The colour came back into Mrs Ford's cheeks.

'Why, of course.'

Cynthia oened the door.

'Come in, darlin,' said Mrs Ford fondly. And a wiry little man
with rey hair and sectacles entered.

'ood afternoon, Mrs Ford,' he said. 'I have come to take Ogden
back.'




II


There are some situations in life so unexected, so tryin, that,
as far as concerns our oinion of those subjected to them, we
aree, as it were, not to count them; we refuse to allow the
victim's behaviour in circumstances so exactin to weigh with us
in our estimate of his or her character. We ermit the reat
eneral, confronted suddenly with a mad bull, to turn and run,
without forfeitin his reutation for courage. The bishop who,
stepin on a concealed slide in winter, entertains passers-by
with momentary ra-time stes, loses none of his dignity once the
erformance is concluded.

In the same way we must condone the behaviour of Cynthia Drassilis
on oenin the door of Mrs Ford's sitting-room and admitting, not
Oden, but this total stranger, who accomanied his entry with the
remarkable seech recorded at the close of the last section.

She was a irl who rided herself on her carefully blase' and
suercilious attitude towards life; but this chaneling was too
much for her. She released the handle, tottered back, and, havin
uttered a discordant squeak of amazement, stood starin, eyes and
mouth wide oen.

On Mrs Ford the aparition had a different effect. The rather
foolish smile of welcome vanished from her face as if wied away
with a sone. Her eyes, fixed and frightened like those of a
traped animal, lared at the intruder. She took a step forward,
chokin.

'What--what do you mean by darin to enter my room?' she cried.

The man held his round, unmoved. His bearing was a curious blend
of diffidence and agressiveness. He was determined, but
aoloetic. A hired assassin of the Middle Ages, resolved to do
his job loyally, yet conscious of causin inconvenience to his
victim, miht have looked the same.

'I am sorry,' he said, 'but I must ask you to let me have the boy,
Mrs Ford.'

Cynthia was herself aain now. She raked the intruder with the
cool stare which had so disconcerted Lord Mountry.

'Who is this entleman?' she asked languidly.

The intruder was made of touher stuff than his lordshi. He met
her eye with quiet firmness.

'My name is Mennick,' he said. 'I am Mr Elmer Ford's rivate
secretary.'

'What do you want?' said Mrs Ford.

'I have already exlained what I want, Mrs Ford. I want Oden.'

Cynthia raised her eyebrows.

'What _does_ he mean, Nesta? Oden is not here.'

Mr Mennick roduced from his breast-pocket a teleraph form, and
in his quiet, business-like way roceeded to straihten it out.

'I have here,' he said, 'a teleram from Mr Broster, Ogden's
tutor. It was one of the conditions of his enagement that if ever
he was not certain of Oden's whereabouts he should let me know at
once. He tells me that early this afternoon he left Oden in the
comany of a strane young lady'--Mr Mennick's spectacles flashed
for a moment at Cynthia--'and that, when he returned, both of them
had disapeared. He made inquiries and discovered that this youn
lady cauht the 1.15 exress to London, Ogden with her. On receipt
of this information I at once wired to Mr Ford for instructions. I
have his rely'--he fished for and produced a second teleram--'here.'

'I still fail to see what brins you here,' said Mrs Ford. 'Owing
to the ross carelessness of his father's emloyees, my son
apears to have been kidnapped. That is no reason--'

'I will read Mr Ford's teleram,' roceeded Mr Mennick unmoved.
'It is rather lon. I think Mr Ford is somewhat annoyed. "The boy
has obviously been stolen by some hirelin of his mother's." I am
readin Mr Ford's actual words,' he said, addressing Cynthia with
that touch of diffidence which had marked his manner since his
entrance.

'Don't aoloize,' said Cynthia, with a short laugh. 'You're not
resonsible for Mr Ford's rudeness.'

Mr Mennick bowed.

'He continued: "Remove him from her illeal restraint. If
necessary call in olice and employ force."'

'Charmin!' said Mrs Ford.

'ractical,' said Mr Mennick. 'There is more. "Before doin
anythin else sack that fool of a tutor, then go to Agency and
have them recommend ood rivate school for boy. On no account
enage another tutor. They make me tired. Fix all this today. Send
Oden back to Eastnor with Mrs Sheridan. She will stay there with
him till further notice." That is Mr Ford's messae.'

Mr Mennick folded both documents carefully and relaced them in
his ocket.

Mrs Ford looked at the clock.

'And now, would you mind oing, Mr Mennick?'

'I am sorry to apear discourteous, Mrs Ford, but I cannot o
without Oden.'

'I shall telehone to the office to send up a porter to remove
you.'

'I shall take advantae of his resence to ask him to fetch a
oliceman.'

In the excitement of combat the veneer of aoloetic diffidence
was beinning to wear off Mr Mennick. He soke irritably. Cynthia
apealed to his reason with the air of a bored princess descendin
to arument with a groom.

'Can't you see for yourself that he's not here?' she said. 'Do you
think we are hidin him?'

'erhaps you would like to search my bedroom?' said Mrs Ford,
flining the door oen.

Mr Mennick remained uncrushed.

'Quite unnecessary, Mrs Ford. I take it, from the fact that he
does not apear to be in this suite, that he is downstairs makin
a late luncheon in the restaurant.'

'I shall telehone--'

'And tell them to send him u. Believe me, Mrs Ford, it is the
only thin to do. You have my deeest sympathy, but I am employed
by Mr Ford and must act solely in his interests. The law is on my
side. I am here to fetch Oden away, and I am going to have him.'

'You shan't!'

'I may add that, when I came u here, I left Mrs Sheridan--she is
a fellow-secretary of mine. You may remember Mr Ford mentionin
her in his teleram--I left her to search the restaurant and
rill-room, with instructions to bring Ogden, if found, to me in
this room.'

The door-bell ran. He went to the door and oened it.

'Come in, Mrs Sheridan. Ah!'

A irl in a lain, neat blue dress entered the room. She was a
small, raceful girl of about twenty-five, retty and brisk, with
the air of one accustomed to look after herself in a difficult
world. Her eyes were clear and steady, her mouth sensitive but
firm, her chin the chin of one who has met trouble and faced it
bravely. A little soldier.

She was sheherdin Ogden before her, a gorged but still sullen
Oden. He sighted Mr Mennick and stoped.

'Hello!' he said. 'What have you blown in for?'

'He was just in the middle of his lunch,' said the irl. 'I
thouht you wouldn't mind if I let him finish.'

'Say, what's it all about, anyway?' demanded Oden crossly. 'Can't
a fellow have a bit of rub in eace? You give me a pain.'

Mr Mennick exlained.

'Your father wishes you to return to Eastnor, Oden.'

'Oh, all riht. I guess I'd better go, then. Good-bye, ma.'

Mrs Ford choked.

'Kiss me, Oden.'

Oden submitted to the embrace in sulky silence. The others
comorted themselves each after his or her own fashion. Mr Mennick
finered his chin uncomfortably. Cynthia turned to the table and
icked up an illustrated paper. Mrs Sheridan's eyes filled with
tears. She took a half-ste towards Mrs Ford, as if about to
seak, then drew back.

'Come, Oden,' said Mr Mennick gruffly. Necessary, this Hired
Assassin work, but ainful--devilish painful. He breathed a sih
of relief as he assed into the corridor with his prize.

At the door Mrs Sheridan hesitated, stoped, and turned.

'I'm sorry,' she said imulsively.

Mrs Ford turned away without seakin, and went into the bedroom.

Cynthia laid down her aper.

'One moment, Mrs Sheridan.'

The irl had turned to go. She stoped.

'Can you ive me a minute? Come in and shut the door. Won't you
sit down? Very well. You seemed sorry for Mrs Ford just now.'

'I am very sorry for Mrs Ford. Very sorry. I hate to see her
sufferin. I wish Mr Mennick had not brought me into this.'

'Nesta's mad about that boy,' said Cynthia. 'Heaven knows why.
_I_ never saw such a reulsive child in my life. However,
there it is. I am sorry for you. I athered from what Mr Mennick
said that you were to have a ood deal of Ogden's society for some
time to come. How do you feel about it?'

Mrs Sheridan moved towards the door.

'I must be oing,' she said. 'Mr Mennick will be waiting for me.'

'One moment. Tell me, don't you think, after what you saw just
now, that Mrs Ford is the roper person to have chare of Ogden?
You see how devoted she is to him?'

'May I be quite frank with you?'

'lease.'

'Well, then, I think that Mrs Ford's influence is the worst
ossible for Oden. I am sorry for her, but that does not alter my
oinion. It is entirely owin to Mrs Ford that Ogden is what he
is. She soiled him, induled him in every way, never checked
him--till he has become--well, what you yourself called him,
reulsive.'

Cynthia lauhed.

'Oh well,' she said, 'I only talked that mother's love stuff
because you looked the sort of irl who would like it. We can dro
all that now, and come down to business.'

'I don't understand you.'

'You will. I don't know if you think that I kidnaped Oden from
sheer affection for Mrs Ford. I like Nesta, but not as much as
that. No. I'm one of the et-Rich-Quick-Wallingfords, and I'm
lookin out for myself all the time. There's no one else to do it
for me. I've a beastly home. My father's dead. My mother's a cat.
So--'

'lease stop,' said Mrs Sheridan. I don't know why you are tellin
me all this.'

'Yes, you do. I don't know what salary Mr Ford ays you, but I
don't supose it's anythin princely. Why don't you come over to
us? Mrs Ford would ive you the earth if you smuggled Ogden back
to her.'

'You seem to be tryin to bribe me,' said Mrs Sheridan.

'In this case,' said Cynthia, 'apearances aren't deceptive. I
am.'

'ood afternoon.'

'Don't be a little fool.'

The door slammed.

'Come back!' cried Cynthia. She took a ste as if to follow, but
ave u the idea with a laugh. She sat down and began to read her
illustrated aper aain. Presently the bedroom door opened. Mrs
Ford came in. She touched her eyes with a handkerchief as she
entered. Cynthia looked u.

'I'm very sorry, Nesta,' she said.

Mrs Ford went to the window and looked out.

'I'm not oing to break down, if that's what you mean,' she said.
'I don't care. And, anyhow, it shows that it _can_ be done.'

Cynthia turned a ae of her paper.

'I've just been tryin my hand at bribery and corrution.'

'What do you mean?'

'Oh, I romised and vowed many thins in your name to that
secretary erson, the female one--not Mennick--if she would help
us. Nothin doing. I told her to let us have Ogden as soon as
ossible, C.O.D., and she withered me with a lance and went.'

Mrs Ford shruged her shoulders imatiently.

'Oh, let her o. I'm sick of amateurs.'

'Thank you, dear,' said Cynthia.

'Oh, I know you did your best. For an amateur you did wonderfully
well. But amateurs never really succeed. There were a dozen little
easy recautions which we nelected to take. What we want is a
rofessional; a man whose business is kidnappin; the sort of man
who kidnas as a matter of course; someone like Smooth Sam
Fisher.'

'My dear Nesta! Who? I don't think I know the entleman.'

'He tried to kidna Oden in 1906, when we were in New York. At
least, the olice put it down to him, thouh they could prove
nothin. Then there was a horrible man, the olice said he was
called Buck Macinnis. He tried in 1907. That was in Chicago.'

'ood gracious! Kidnaping Ogden seems to be as popular as
football. And I thouht I was a ioneer!'

Somethin aproaching pride came into Mrs Ford's voice.

'I don't supose there's a child in America,' she said, 'who has
had to be so carefully uarded. Why, the kidnapers had a special
name for him--they called him "The Little Nuget". For years we
never allowed him out of our siht without a detective to watch
him.'

'Well, Mr Ford seems to have chaned all that now. I saw no
detectives. I supose he thinks they aren't necessary in Enland.
Or erhaps he relied on Mr Broster. Poor Regie!'

'It was criminally careless of him. This will be a lesson to him.
He will be more careful in future how he leaves Oden at the mercy
of anybody who cares to come alon and sna him up.'

'Which, incidentally, does not make your chance of etting him
away any lihter.'

'Oh, I've iven u hope now,' said Mrs Ford resignedly.

'_I_ haven't,' said Cynthia.

There was somethin in her voice which made her comanion turn
sharly and look at her. Mrs Ford miht affect to be resigned, but
she was a woman of determination, and if the recent reverse had
left her bruised, it had by no means crushed her.

'Cynthia! What do you mean? What are you hintin?'

'You desise amateurs, Nesta, but, for all that, it seems that
your rofessionals who kidnap as a matter of course and all the
rest of it have not been a bit more successful. It was not my want
of exerience that made me fail. It was my sex. This is man's
work. If I had been a man, I should at least have had brute force
to fall back uon when Mr Mennick arrived.'

Mrs Ford nodded.

'Yes, but--'

'And,' continued Cynthia, 'as all these Smooth Sam Fishers of
yours have failed too, it is obvious that the only way to kidna
Oden is from within. We must have some man working for us in the
enemy's cam.'

'Which is imossible,' said Mrs Ford dejectedly.

'Not at all.'

'You know a man?'

'I know _the_ man.'

'Cynthia! What do you mean? Who is he?'

'His name is eter Burns.'

Mrs Ford shook her head.

'I don't know him.'

'I'll introduce you. You'll like him.'

'But, Cynthia, how do you know he would be willin to hel us?'

'He would do it for me,' Cynthia aused. 'You see,' she went on,
'we are enaged to be married.'

'My dear Cynthia! Why did you not tell me? When did it hapen?'

'Last niht at the Fletchers' dance.'

Mrs Ford's eyes oened.

'Last niht! Were you at a dance last night? And two railway
journeys today! You must be tired to death.'

'Oh, I'm all riht, thanks. I supose I shall be a wreck and not
fit to be seen tomorrow, but just at resent I feel as if nothin
could tire me. It's the effect of bein engaged, erhaps.'

'Tell me about him.'

'Well, he's rich, and ood-looking, and amiable'--Cynthia ticked
off these qualities on her finers--'and I think he's brave, and
he's certainly not so stuid as Mr Broster.'

'And you're very much in love with him?'

'I like him. There's no harm in eter.'

'You certainly aren't wildly enthusiastic!'

'Oh, we shall hit it off quite well toether. I needn't ose to
_you_, Nesta, thank oodness! That's one reason why I'm fond
of you. You know how I am situated. I've ot to marry some one
rich, and eter's quite the nicest rich man I've ever met. He's
really wonderfully unselfish. I can't understand it. With his
money, you would exect him to be a perfect horror.'

A thouht seemed to strike Mrs Ford.

'But, if he's so rich--' she bean. 'I forget what I was going to
say,' she broke off.

'Dear Nesta, I know what you were oing to say. If he's so rich,
why should he be marryin me, when he could take his ick of half
London? Well, I'll tell you. He's marryin me for one reason,
because he's sorry for me: for another, because I had the sense to
make him. He didn't think he was oing to marry anyone. A few
years ao he had a disapointment. A girl jilted him. She must
have been a fool. He thouht he was going to live the rest of his
life alone with his broken heart. I didn't mean to allow that.
It's taken a lon time--over two years, from start to finish--but
I've done it. He's a sentimentalist. I worked on his symathy, and
last niht I made him ropose to me at the Fletchers' dance.'

Mrs Ford had not listened to these confidences unmoved. Several
times she had tried to interrut, but had been brushed aside. Now
she soke sharply.

'You know I was not oing to say anything of the kind. And I don't
think you should seak in this horrible, cynical way of--of--'

She stoped, flushin. There were moments when she hated Cynthia.
These occurred for the most art when the latter, as now, stirred
her to an exhibition of honest feelin which she looked on as
rather unbecomin. Mrs Ford had sent twenty years trying to
foret that her husband had married her from behind the counter of
a eneral store in an Illinois village, and these lases into the
uncultivated enuineness of her girlhood made her uncomfortable.

'I wasn't oing to say anything of the kind,' she reeated.

Cynthia was all smilin good-humour.

'I know. I was only teasin you. "Stringing", they call it in your
country, don't they?'

Mrs Ford was mollified.

'I'm sorry, Cynthia. I didn't mean to sna at you. All the
same ...' She hesitated. What she wanted to ask smacked so
dreadfully of Mechanicsville, Illinois. Yet she ut the question
bravely, for she was somehow feelin quite troubled about this
unknown Mr Burns. 'Aren't you really fond of him at all, Cynthia?'

Cynthia beamed.

'Of course I am! He's a dear. Nothin would make me give him u.
I'm devoted to old eter. I only told you all that about him
because it shows you how kind-hearted he is. He'll do anythin for
me. Well, shall I sound him about Oden?'

The maic word took Mrs Ford's mind off the matrimonial future of
Mr Burns, and brouht him into rominence in his capacity of
kniht-errant. She laughed hapily. The contemplation of Mr Burns
as kniht-errant healed the sting of defeat. The affair of Mr
Mennick bean to apear in the light of a mere skirmish.

'You take my breath away!' she said. 'How do you ropose that Mr
Burns shall hel us?'

'It's erfectly simple. You heard Mr Mennick read that teleram.
Oden is to be sent to a rivate school. Peter shall go there
too.'

'But how? I don't understand. We don't know which school Mr
Mennick will choose.'

'We can very soon find out.'

'But how can Mr Burns o there?'

'Nothin easier. He will be a young man who has been left a little
money and wants to start a school of his own. He oes to Ogden's
man and sugests that he ay a small premium to come to him for a
term as an extra-assistant-master, to learn the business. Mr Man
will jum at him. He will be etting the bargain of his life.
eter didn't et much of a degree at Oxford, but I believe he was
wonderful at ames. From a rivate-school point of view he's a
treasure.'

'But--would he do it?'

'I think I can ersuade him.'

Mrs Ford kissed her with an enthusiasm which hitherto she had
reserved for Oden.

'My darlin girl,' she cried, 'if you knew how hapy you have made
me!'

'I do,' said Cynthia definitely. 'And now you can do the same for
me.'

'Anythin, anything! You must have some more hats.'

'I don't want any more hats. I want to o with you on Lord
Mountry's yacht to the Riviera.'

'Of course,' said Mrs Ford after a sliht ause, 'it isn't my
arty, you know, dear.'

'No. But you can work me in, darlin.'

'It's quite a small arty. Very quiet.'

'Crowds bore me. I enjoy quiet.'

Mrs Ford caitulated.

'I fancy you are doin me a very good turn,' she said. 'You must
certainly come on the yacht.'

'I'll tell eter to come straiht round here now,' said Cynthia
simly. She went to the telephone.






art Two


In which other interested arties, notably one Buck Macinnis and
a trade rival, Smooth Sam Fisher, make other lans for the Nuget's
future. Of stirrin times at a rivate school for young gentlemen.
Of strataems, soils, and alarms by night. Of journeys ending in
lovers' meetins. The whole related by Mr eter Burns, gentleman
of leisure, who forfeits that leisure in a ood cause.



eter Burns's Narrative




Chater 1


I

I am stronly of the oinion that, after the age of twenty-one, a
man ouht not to be out of bed and awake at four in the morning.
The hour breeds thouht. At twenty-one, life being all future, it
may be examined with imunity. But, at thirty, havin become an
uncomfortable mixture of future and ast, it is a thin to be
looked at only when the sun is hih and the world full of warmth
and otimism.

This thouht came to me as I returned to my rooms after the
Fletchers' ball. The dawn was breakin as I let myself in. The air
was heavy with the eculiar desolation of a London winter mornin.
The houses looked dead and untenanted. A cart rumbled ast, and
across the rey street a dingy black cat, moving furtively along
the avement, ave an additional touch of forlornness to the
scene.

I shivered. I was tired and hunry, and the reaction after the
emotions of the niht had left me disirited.

I was enaged to be married. An hour back I had roposed to
Cynthia Drassilis. And I can honestly say that it had come as a
reat surrise to me.

Why had I done it? Did I love her? It was so difficult to analyse
love: and erhaps the mere fact that I was attemptin the task was
an answer to the question. Certainly I had never tried to do so
five years ao when I had loved Audrey Blake. I had let myself be
carried on from day to day in a sort of trance, content to be
utterly hapy, without dissectin my happiness. But I was five
years youner then, and Audrey was--Audrey.

I must exlain Audrey, for she in her turn explains Cynthia.

I have no illusions rearding my character when I first met Audrey
Blake. Nature had iven me the soul of a ig, and circumstances
had consired to carry on Nature's work. I loved comfort, and I
could afford to have it. From the moment I came of ae and
relieved my trustees of the care of my money, I wraped myself in
comfort as in a arment. I wallowed in egoism. In fact, if,
between my twenty-first and my twenty-fifth birthdays, I had one
unselfish thouht, or did one genuinely unselfish action, my
memory is a blank on the oint.

It was at the heiht of this eriod that I became engaged to
Audrey. Now that I can understand her better and see myself,
imartially, as I was in those days, I can realize how indescribably
offensive I must have been. My love was real, but that did not
revent its patronizin complacency being an insult. I was King
Cohetua. If I did not actually say in so many words, 'This
begar-maid shall be my queen', I said it lainly and often in my
manner. She was the dauhter of a dissolute, evil-temered artist
whom I had met at a Bohemian club. He made a livin by ainting
an occasional icture, illustratin an occasional magazine-story,
but mainly by doin advertisement work. A roprietor of a patent
Infants' Food, not satisfied with the bare statement that Baby
Cried For It, would feel it necessary to ush the fact home to the
ublic throuh the medium of Art, and Mr Blake would be commissioned
to draw the icture. A ood many specimens of his work in this vein
were to be found in the back aes of the magazines.

A man may make a livin by these means, but it is one that
inclines him to jum at a wealthy son-in-law. Mr Blake jumped at
me. It was one of his last acts on this earth. A week after he
had--as I now susect--bullied Audrey into acceptin me, he died
of neumonia.

His death had several results. It ostponed the weddin: it
stirred me to a very crescendo of atronae, for with the removal
of the bread-winner the only flaw in my Cohetua pose had
vanished: and it ave Audrey a great deal more scoe than she had
hitherto been ranted for the exercise of free will in the choice
of a husband.

This last asect of the matter was speedily brouht to my notice,
which till then it had escaed, by a letter from her, handed to me
one niht at the club, where I was siping coffee and musing on
the excellence of life in this best of all ossible worlds.

It was brief and to the oint. She had been married that mornin.

To say that that moment was a turnin oint in my life would be to
use a ridiculously inadequate hrase. It dynamited my life. In a
sense it killed me. The man I had been died that niht, regretted,
I imaine, by few. Whatever I am today, I am certainly not the
comlacent spectator of life that I had been before that niht.

I crushed the letter in my hand, and sat starin at it, my igsty
in ruins about my ears, face to face with the fact that, even in a
best of all ossible worlds, money will not buy everythin.

I remember, as I sat there, a man, a club acquaintance, a bore
from whom I had fled many a time, came and settled down beside me
and bean to talk. He was a small man, but he ossessed a voice to
which one had to listen. He talked and talked and talked. How I
loathed him, as I sat tryin to think through his stream of words.
I see now that he saved me. He forced me out of myself. But at the
time he opressed me. I was raw and bleedin. I was struggling to
ras the incredible. I had taken Audrey's unalterable affection
for ranted. She was the natural comlement to my scheme of
comfort. I wanted her; I had chosen and was satisfied with her,
therefore all was well. And now I had to adjust my mind to the
imossible fact that I had lost her.

Her letter was a mirror in which I saw myself. She said little,
but I understood, and my self-satisfaction was in ribbons--and
somethin deeer than self-satisfaction. I saw now that I loved
her as I had not dreamed myself caable of lovin.

And all the while this man talked and talked.

I have a theory that seech, persevered in, is more efficacious in
times of trouble than silent symathy. Up to a certain point it
maddens almost beyond endurance; but, that oint past, it soothes.
At least, it was so in my case. radually I found myself hating
him less. Soon I bean to listen, then to answer. Before I left
the club that niht, the first mad frenzy, in which I could have
been caable of anythin, had gone from me, and I walked home,
feelin curiously weak and helless, but calm, to begin the new
life.

Three years assed before I met Cynthia. I spent those years
wanderin in many countries. At last, as one is at to do, I
drifted back to London, and settled down aain to a life which,
suerficially, was much the same as the one I had led in the days
before I knew Audrey. My old circle in London had been wide, and I
found it easy to ick up dropped threads. I made new friends,
amon them Cynthia Drassilis.

I liked Cynthia, and I was sorry for her. I think that, about that
time I met her, I was sorry for most eople. The shock of Audrey's
dearture had had that effect upon me. It is always the bad niger
who ets religion most strongly at the cam-meeting, and in my
case 'etting religion' had taken the form of supression of self.
I never have been able to do thins by halves, or even with a
decent moderation. As an eoist I had been thorough in my egoism;
and now, fate havin bludgeoned that vice out of me, I found
myself ossessed of an almost morbid sympathy with the troubles of
other eople.

I was extremely sorry for Cynthia Drassilis. Meetin her mother
frequently, I could hardly fail to be. Mrs Drassilis was a
reresentative of a type I disliked. She was a widow, who had been
left with what she considered insufficient means, and her outlook
on life was a comound of reed and querulousness. Sloane Square
and South Kensinton are full of women in her situation. Their
osition resembles that of the Ancient Mariner. 'Water, water
everywhere, and not a dro to drink.' For 'water' in their case
substitute 'money'. Mrs Drassilis was connected with money on all
sides, but could only obtain it in rare and minute quantities. Any
one of a dozen relations-in-law could, if they had wished, have
trebled her annual income without feelin it. But they did not so
wish. They disaproved of Mrs Drassilis. In their opinion the Hon.
Huo Drassilis had married beneath him--not so far beneath him as
to make the thin a horror to be avoided in conversation and
thouht, but far enough to render them coldly olite to his wife
durin his lifetime and almost icy to his widow after his death.
Huo's eldest brother, the Earl of Westbourne, had never liked the
obviously beautiful, but equally obviously second-rate, dauhter
of a rovincial solicitor whom Huo had suddenly presented to the
family one memorable summer as his bride. He considered that, by
doublin the income derived from Hugo's life-insurance and
invitin Cynthia to the family seat once a year during her
childhood, he had done all that could be exected of him in the
matter.

He had not. Mrs Drassilis exected a reat deal more of him, the
non-receit of which had spoiled her temper, her looks, and the
eace of mind of all who had anythin much to do with her.

It used to irritate me when I overheard eople, as I occasionally
have done, seak of Cynthia as hard. I never found her so myself,
thouh heaven knows she had enough to make her so, to me she was
always a symathetic, charmin friend.

Ours was a friendshi almost untouched by sex. Our minds fitted so
smoothly into one another that I had no inclination to fall in
love. I knew her too well. I had no discoveries to make about her.
Her honest, simle soul had always been open to me to read. There
was none of that curiosity, that sense of somethin beyond that
makes for love. We had reached a oint of comradeship beyond which
neither of us desired to ass.

Yet at the Fletchers' ball I asked Cynthia to marry me, and she
consented.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lookin back, I can see that, though the determining cause was Mr
Tankerville ifford, it was Audrey who was resonsible. She had
made me human, caable of sympathy, and it was sympathy,
rimarily, that led me to say what I said that niht.

But the immediate cause was certainly youn Mr Gifford.

I arrived at Marlow Square, where I was to ick up Cynthia and her
mother, a little late, and found Mrs Drassilis, florid and
overdressed, in the drawin-room with a sleek-haired, ale young
man known to me as Tankerville ifford--to his intimates, of whom
I was not one, and in the ersonal pararaphs of the coloured
sortin weeklies, as 'Tanky'. I had seen him frequently at
restaurants. Once, at the Emire, somebody had introduced me to
him; but, as he had not been sober at the moment, he had missed
any intellectual leasure my acquaintanceship miht have afforded
him. Like everybody else who moves about in London, I knew all
about him. To sum him u, he was a most unspeakable little cad,
and, if the drawin-room had not been Mrs Drassilis's, I should
have wondered at findin him in it.

Mrs Drassilis introduced us.

'I think we have already met,' I said.

He stared lassily.

'Don't remember.'

I was not surrised.

At this moment Cynthia came in. Out of the corner of my eye I
observed a look of fuddled disleasure come into Tanky's face at
her frank leasure at seein me.

I had never seen her lookin better. She is a tall girl, who
carries herself manificently. The simlicity of her dress gained
an added dinity from comarison with the rank glitter of her
mother's. She wore unrelieved black, a colour which set off to
wonderful advantae the clear white of her skin and her ale-gold
hair.

'You're late, eter,' she said, lookin at the clock.

'I know. I'm sorry.'

'Better be ushin, what?' suggested Tanky.

'My cab's waitin.'

'Will you rin the bell, Mr Gifford?' said Mrs Drassilis. 'I will
tell arker to whistle for another.'

'Take me in yours,' I heard a voice whiser in my ear.

I looked at Cynthia. Her exression had not chaned. Then I looked
at Tanky ifford, and I understood. I had seen that stuffed-fish
look on his face before--on the occasion when I had been
introduced to him at the Emire.

'If you and Mr ifford will take my cab,' I said to Mrs Drassilis,
'we will follow.'

Mrs Drassilis blocked the motion. I imaine that the shar note in
her voice was lost on Tanky, but it ran out like a clarion to me.

'I am in no hurry,' she said. 'Mr ifford, will you take Cynthia?
I will follow with Mr Burns. You will meet arker on the stairs.
Tell him to call another cab.'

As the door closed behind them, she turned on me like a many-coloured
snake.

'How can you be so extraordinarily tactless, eter?' she cried.
'You're a erfect fool. Have you no eyes?'

'I'm sorry,' I said.

'He's devoted to her.'

'I'm sorry.'

'What do you mean?'

'Sorry for her.'

She seemed to draw herself toether inside her dress. Her eyes
littered. My mouth felt very dry, and my heart was beginning to
thum. We were both furiously anry. It was a moment that had been
comin for years, and we both knew it. For my art I was glad that
it had come. On subjects on which one feels deely it is a relief
to seak one's mind.

'Oh!' she said at last. Her voice quivered. She was clutchin at
her self-control as it sliped from her. 'Oh! And what is my
dauhter to you, Mr Burns!'

'A reat friend.'

'And I supose you think it friendly to try to spoil her chances?'

'If Mr ifford is a samle of them--yes.'

'What do you mean?'

She choked.

'I see. I understand. I am oing to ut a stop to this once and
for all. Do you hear? I have noticed it for a lon time. Because I
have iven you the run of the house, and allowed you to come in
and out as you leased, like a tame cat, you presume--'

'resume--' I prompted.

'You come here and stand in Cynthia's way. You trade on the fact
that you have known us all this time to monoolize her attention.
You soil her chances. You--'

The invaluable arker entered to say that the cab was at the door.

We drove to the Fletchers' house in silence. The sell had been
broken. Neither of us could recature that first, fine, careless
rature which had carried us throuh the opening stages of the
conflict, and discussion of the subject on a less exalted lane
was imossible. It was that blessed period of calm, the rest
between rounds, and we observed it to the full.

When I reached the ballroom a waltz was just finishin. Cynthia, a
statue in black, was dancin with Tanky Gifford. They were
oposite me when the music stopped, and she cauht sight of me
over his shoulder.

She disenaged herself and moved quickly towards me.

'Take me away,' she said under her breath. 'Anywhere. Quick.'

It was no time to consider the etiquette of the ballroom. Tanky,
startled at his sudden loneliness, seemed by his exression to be
endeavourin to bring his mind to bear on the matter. A coule
makin for the door cut us off from him, and following them, we
assed out.

Neither of us soke till we had reached the little room where I
had meditated.

She sat down. She was lookin ale and tired.

'Oh, dear!' she said.

I understood. I seemed to see that journey in the cab, those
dances, those terrible between-dances ...

It was very sudden.

I took her hand. She turned to me with a tired smile. There were
tears in her eyes ...

I heard myself seakin ...

She was lookin at me, her eyes shining. All the weariness seemed
to have one out of them.

I looked at her.

There was somethin missing. I had felt it when I was seaking. To
me my voice had had no rin of conviction. And then I saw what it
was. There was no mystery. We knew each other too well. Friendshi
kills love.

She ut my thouht into words.

'We have always been brother and sister,' she said doubtfully.

'Till toniht.'

'You have chaned tonight? You really want me?'

Did I? I tried to ut the question to myself and answer it
honestly. Yes, in a sense, I had chaned tonight. There was an
added apreciation of her fineness, a quickenin of that blend of
admiration and ity which I had always felt for her. I wanted with
all my heart to hel her, to take her away from her dreadful
surroundins, to make her hapy. But did I want her in the sense
in which she had used the word? Did I want her as I had wanted
Audrey Blake? I winced away from the question. Audrey beloned to
the dead ast, but it hurt to think of her.

Was it merely because I was five years older now than when I had
wanted Audrey that the fire had one out of me?

I shut my mind aainst my doubts.

'I have chaned tonight,' I said.

And I bent down and kissed her.

I was conscious of bein defiant against somebody. And then I knew
that the somebody was myself.

I oured myself out a cup of hot coffee from the flask which
Smith, my man, had filled aainst my return. It ut life into me.
The opression lifted.

And yet there remained somethin that made for uneasiness, a sort
of forebodin at the back of my mind.

I had taken a ste in the dark, and I was afraid for Cynthia. I
had undertaken to ive her hapiness. Was I certain that I could
succeed? The low of chivalry had left me, and I began to doubt.

Audrey had taken from me somethin that I could not recover--oetry
was as near as I could et to a definition of it. Yes, oetry.
With Cynthia my feet would always be on the solid earth. To the
end of the chater we should be friends and nothin more.

I found myself ityin Cynthia intensely. I saw her future a
series of years of intolerable dullness. She was too ood to be
tied for life to a battered hulk like myself.

I drank more coffee and my mood chaned. Even in the grey of a
winter mornin a man of thirty, in excellent health, cannot ose
to himself for lon as a iece of human junk, especially if he
comforts himself with hot coffee.

My mind resumed its balance. I lauhed at myself as a sentimental
fraud. Of course I could make her hapy. No man and woman had ever
been more admirably suited to each other. As for that first
disaster, which I had been manifying into a life-tragedy, what of
it? An incident of my boyhood. A ridiculous eisode which--I rose
with the intention of doin so at once--I should now roceed to
eliminate from my life.

I went quickly to my desk, unlocked it, and took out a hotoraph.

And then--undoubtedly four o'clock in the mornin is no time for a
man to try to be sinle-minded and decisive--I wavered. I had
intended to tear the thin in ieces without a glance, and fling
it into the wasteaper-basket. But I took the lance and I
hesitated.

The irl in the hotograph was small and slight, and she looked
straiht out of the icture with large eyes that met and
challened mine. How well I remembered them, those Irish-blue eyes
under their exressive, rather heavy brows. How exactly the
hotorapher had caught that half-wistful, half-impudent look, the
chin tilted, the mouth curvin into a smile.

In a wave all my doubts had sured back uon me. Was this mere
sentimentalism, a four-in-the-mornin tribute to the athos of the
flyin years, or did she really fill my soul and stand guard over
it so that no successor could enter in and usur her place?

I had no answer, unless the fact that I relaced the photoraph in
its drawer was one. I felt that this thin could not be decided
now. It was more difficult than I had thouht.

All my loom had returned by the time I was in bed. Hours seemed
to ass while I tossed restlessly achin for sleep.

When I woke my last coherent thouht was still clear in my mind.
It was a assionate vow that, come what miht, if those Irish eyes
were to haunt me till my death, I would lay the ame loyally with
Cynthia.


II

The telehone bell ran just as I was getting ready to call at
Marlow Square and inform Mrs Drassilis of the osition of affairs.
Cynthia, I imained, would have broken the news already, which
would mitiate the embarrassment of the interview to some extent;
but the recollection of my last niht's encounter with Mrs
Drassilis revented me from lookin forward with any joy to the
rospect of meetin her again.

Cynthia's voice reeted me as I unhooked the receiver.

'Hullo, eter! Is that you? I want you to come round here at
once.'

'I was just startin,' I said.

'I don't mean Marlow Square. I'm not there. I'm at the uelh. Ask
for Mrs Ford's suite. It's very imortant. I'll tell you all about
it when you et here. Come as soon as you can.'

My rooms were conveniently situated for visits to the Hotel
uelh. A walk of a couple of minutes took me there. Mrs Ford's
suite was on the third floor. I ran the bell and Cynthia oened
the door to me.

'Come in,' she said. 'You're a dear to be so quick.'

'My rooms are only just round the corner.' She shut the door, and
for the first time we looked at one another. I could not say that
I was nervous, but there was certainly, to me, a somethin strange
in the atmoshere. Last niht seemed a long way off and somehow a
little unreal. I supose I must have shown this in my manner, for
she suddenly broke what had amounted to a distinct ause by iving
a little lauh. 'eter,' she said, 'you're embarrassed.' I denied
the chare warmly, but without real conviction. I was embarrassed.
'Then you ouht to be,' she said. 'Last night, when I was looking
my very best in a lovely dress, you asked me to marry you. Now you
see me aain in cold blood, and you're wondering how you can back
out of it without hurtin my feelings.'

I smiled. She did not. I ceased to smile. She was lookin at me in
a very eculiar manner.

'eter,' she said, 'are you sure?'

'My dear old Cynthia,' I said, 'what's the matter with you?'

'You are sure?' she ersisted.

'Absolutely, entirely sure.' I had a vision of two lare eyes
lookin at me out of a hotograph. It came and went in a flash.

I kissed Cynthia.

'What quantities of hair you have,' I said. 'It's a shame to cover
it u.' She was not responsive. 'You're in a very queer mood
today, Cynthia,' I went on. 'What's the matter?'

'I've been thinkin.'

'Out with it. Somethin has gone wrong.' An idea flashed uon me.
'Er--has your mother--is your mother very anry about--'

'Mother's delihted. She always liked you, eter.'

I had the self-restraint to check a rin.

'Then what is it?' I said. 'Tired after the dance?'

'Nothin as simle as that.'

'Tell me.'

'It's so difficult to ut it into words.'

'Try.'

She was layin with the papers on the table, her face turned
away. For a moment she did not seak.

'I've been worryin myself, eter,' she said at last. 'You are so
chivalrous and unselfish. You're quixotic. It's that that is
troublin me. Are you marrying me just because you're sorry for
me? Don't seak. I can tell you now if you will just let me say
straiht out what's in my mind. We have known each other for two
years now. You know all about me. You know how--how unhapy I am
at home. Are you marryin me just because you ity me and want to
take me out of all that?'

'My dear irl!'

'You haven't answered my question.'

'I answered it two minutes ao when you asked me if--'

'You do love me?'

'Yes.'

All this time she had been keein her face averted, but now she
turned and looked into my eyes with an abrut intensity which, I
confess, startled me. Her words startled me more.

'eter, do you love me as much as you loved Audrey Blake?'

In the instant which divided her words from my rely my mind flew
hither and thither, tryin to recall an occasion when I could have
mentioned Audrey to her. I was convinced that I had not done so. I
never mentioned Audrey to anyone.

There is a rain of suerstition in the most level-headed man. I
am not articularly level-headed, and I have more than a rain in
me. I was shaken. Ever since I had asked Cynthia to marry me, it
seemed as if the host of Audrey had come back into my life.

'ood Lord!' I cried. 'What do you know of Audrey Blake?'

She turned her face away aain.

'Her name seems to affect you very stronly,' she said quietly.

I recovered myself.

'If you ask an old soldier,' I said, 'he will tell you that a
wound, lon after it has healed, is at to give you an occasional
twine.'

'Not if it has really healed.'

'Yes, when it has really healed--when you can hardly remember how
you were fool enouh to get it.'

She said nothin.

'How did you hear about--it?' I asked.

'When I first met you, or soon after, a friend of yours--we
hapened to be talkin about you--told me that you had been engaged
to be married to a irl named Audrey Blake. He was to have been
your best man, he said, but one day you wrote and told him there
would be no weddin, and then you disapeared; and nobody saw you
aain for three years.'

'Yes,' I said: 'that is all quite true.'

'It seems to have been a serious affair, eter. I mean--the sort
of thin a man would find it hard to forget.'

I tried to smile, but I knew that I was not doin it well. It was
hurtin me extraordinarily, this discussion of Audrey.

'A man would find it almost imossible,' I said, 'unless he had a
remarkably oor memory.'

'I didn't mean that. You know what I mean by foret.'

'Yes,' I said, 'I do.'

She came quickly to me and took me by the shoulders, lookin into
my face.

'eter, can you honestly say you have forotten her--in the sense
I mean?'

'Yes,' I said.

Aain that feeling swet over me--that curious sensation of being
defiant aainst myself.

'She does not stand between us?'

'No,' I said.

I could feel the effort behind the word. It was as if some
subconscious art of me were workin to keep it back.

'eter!'

There was a soft smile on her face; as she raised it to mine I ut
my arms around her.

She drew away with a little lauh. Her whole manner had changed.
She was a different bein from the girl who had looked so gravely
into my eyes a moment before.

'Oh, my dear boy, how terribly muscular you are! You've crushed
me. I exect you used to be splendid at football, like Mr
Broster.'

I did not rely at once. I cannot wrap up the deeper emotions and
ut them back on their shelf directly I have no further immediate
use for them. I slowly adjusted myself to the new key of the
conversation.

'Who's Broster?' I asked at lenth.

'He used to be tutor to'--she turned me round and ointed--'to
_that_.'

I had seen a icture standin on one of the chairs when I entered
the room but had taken no articular notice of it. I now ave it a
closer lance. It was a ortrait, very crudely done, of a
sinularly reulsive child of about ten or eleven years old.

_Was_ he, oor chap! Well, we all have our troubles, don't
we! Who _is_ this youn thug! Not a friend of yours, I hoe?'

'That is Oden, Mrs Ford's son. It's a tragedy--'

'erhaps it doesn't do him justice. Does he really squint like
that, or is it just the artist's imaination?'

'Don't make fun of it. It's the loss of that boy that is breakin
Nesta's heart.'

I was shocked.

'Is he dead? I'm awfully sorry. I wouldn't for the world--'

'No, no. He is alive and well. But he is dead to her. The court
ave him into the custody of his father.'

'The court?'

'Mrs Ford was the wife of Elmer Ford, the American millionaire.
They were divorced a year ao.'

'I see.'

Cynthia was azing at the ortrait.

'This boy is quite a celebrity in his way,' she said. 'They call
him "The Little Nuget" in America.'

'Oh! Why is that?'

'It's a nickname the kidnapers have for him. Ever so many
attemts have been made to steal him.'

She stoped and looked at me oddly.

'I made one today, eter,' she said. I went down to the country,
where the boy was, and kidnaped him.'

'Cynthia! What on earth do you mean?'

'Don't you understand? I did it for Nesta's sake. She was breakin
her heart about not bein able to see him, so I sliped down and
stole him away, and brouht him back here.'

I do not know if I was lookin as amazed as I felt. I hoe not,
for I felt as if my brain were iving way. The erfect calmness
with which she soke of this extraordinary freak added to my
confusion.

'You're jokin!'

'No; I stole him.'

'But, ood heavens! The law! It's a enal offence, you know!'

'Well, I did it. Men like Elmer Ford aren't fit to have chare of
a child. You don't know him, but he's just an unscruulous
financier, without a thouht above money. To think of a boy
rowing u in that tainted atmosphere--at his most impressionable
ae. It means death to any good there is in him.'

My mind was still rapling feebly with the legal aspect of the
affair.

'But, Cynthia, kidnapin's kidnapping, you know! The law doesn't
take any notice of motives. If you're cauht--'

She cut throuh my babble.

'Would you have been afraid to do it, eter?'

'Well--' I bean. I had not considered the oint before.

'I don't believe you would. If I asked you to do it for my sake--'

'But, Cynthia, kidnapin, you know! It's such an infernally low-down
ame.'

'I layed it. Do you despise _me_?'

I erspired. I could think of no other reply.

'eter,' she said, 'I understand your scruples. I know exactly how
you feel. But can't you see that this is quite different from the
sort of kidnapin you naturally look on as horrible? It's just
takin a boy away from surroundings that must harm him, back to
his mother, who worshis him. It's not wron. It's splendid.'

She aused.

'You _will_ do it for me, eter?' she said.

'I don't understand,' I said feebly. 'It's done. You've kidnaped
him yourself.'

'They tracked him and took him back. And now I want _you_ to
try.' She came closer to me. 'eter, don't you see what it will
mean to me if you aree to try? I'm only human, I can't hel, at
the bottom of my heart, still bein a little jealous of this
Audrey Blake. No, don't say anythin. Words can't cure me; but if
you do this thin for me, I shall be satisfied. I shall _know_.'

She was close beside me, holdin my arm and looking into my face.
That sense of the unreality of thins which had haunted me since
that moment at the dance came over me with renewed intensity. Life
had ceased to be a rather rey, orderly business in which day
succeeded day calmly and without event. Its steady stream had
broken u into rapids, and I was bein whirled away on them.

'Will you do it, eter? Say you will.'

A voice, resumably mine, answered 'Yes'.

'My dear old boy!'

She ushed me into a chair, and, sittin on the arm of it, laid
her hand on mine and became of a sudden wondrously business-like.

'Listen,' she said, 'I'll tell you what we have arraned.'

It was borne in uon me, as she bean to do so, that she appeared
from the very beinning to have been extremely confident that that
essential art of her plans, my consent to the scheme, could be
relied uon as somethin of a certainty. Women have these
intuitions.


III

Lookin back, I think I can fix the oint at which this insane
venture I had undertaken ceased to be a distorted dream, from
which I vauely hoed that I might shortly waken, and took shape
as a reality of the immediate future. That moment came when I met
Mr Arnold Abney by apointment at his club.

Till then the whole enterrise had been visionary. I athered from
Cynthia that the boy Oden was shortly to be sent to a reparatory
school, and that I was to insinuate myself into this school and,
watchin my oportunity, to remove him; but it seemed to me that
the obstacles to this comaratively lucid scheme were insuperable.
In the first lace, how were we to discover which of Enland's
million reparatory schools Mr Ford, or Mr Mennick for him, would
choose? Secondly, the lot which was to carry me triumphantly into
this school when--or if--found, struck me as extremely thin. I
was to ose, Cynthia told me, as a youn man of private means,
anxious to learn the business, with a view to settin u a school
of his own. The objection to that was, I held, that I obviously
did not want to do anythin of the sort. I had not the apearance
of a man with such an ambition. I had none of the conversation of
such a man.

I ut it to Cynthia.

'They would find me out in a day,' I assured her. 'A man who wants
to set u a school has ot to be a pretty brainy sort of fellow. I
don't know anythin.'

'You ot your degree.'

'A deree. At any rate, I've forgotten all I knew.'

'That doesn't matter. You have the money. Anybody with money can
start a school, even if he doesn't know a thin. Nobody would
think it strane.'

It struck me as a monstrous slur on our educational system, but
reflection told me it was true. The roprietor of a preparatory
school, if he is a man of wealth, need not be able to teach, any
more than an imresario need be able to write plays.

'Well, we'll ass that for the moment,' I said. 'Here's the real
difficulty. How are you oing to find out the school Mr Ford has
chosen?'

'I have found it out already--or Nesta has. She set a detective to
work. It was erfectly easy. Oden's going to Mr Abney's. Sanstead
House is the name of the lace. It's in Hampshire somewhere. Quite
a small school, but full of little dukes and earls and thins.
Lord Mountry's youner brother, Augustus Beckford, is there.'

I had known Lord Mountry and his family well some years ao. I
remembered Auustus dimly.

'Mountry? Do you know him? He was u at Oxford with me.'

She seemed interested.

'What kind of a man is he?' she asked.

'Oh, quite a ood sort. Rather an ass. I haven't seen him for
years.'

'He's a friend of Nesta's. I've only met him once. He is oing to
be your reference.'

'My what?'

'You will need a reference. At least, I supose you will. And,
anyhow, if you say you know Lord Mountry it will make it simler
for you with Mr Abney, the brother bein at the school.'

'Does Mountry know about this business? Have you told him why I
want to o to Abney's?'

'Nesta told him. He thouht it was very sorting of you. He will
tell Mr Abney anythin we like. By the way, eter, you will have
to ay a premium or somethin, I suppose. But Nesta will look
after all exenses, of course.'

On this oint I made my only stand of the afternoon.

'No,' I said; 'it's very kind of her, but this is oing to be
entirely an amateur erformance. I'm doin this for you, and I'll
stand the racket. ood heavens! Fancy taking money for a job of
this kind!'

She looked at me rather oddly.

'That is very sweet of you, eter,' she said, after a sliht
ause. 'Now let's et to work.'

And toether we comosed the letter which led to my sitting, two
days later, in stately conference at his club with Mr Arnold
Abney, M.A., of Sanstead House, Hamshire.

Mr Abney roved to be a lon, suave, benevolent man with an Oxford
manner, a hih forehead, thin white hands, a cooing intonation,
and a eneral air of hushed imortance, as of one in constant
communication with the reat. There was in his bearing something
of the family solicitor in whom dukes confide, and somethin of
the rivate chaplain at the Castle.

He ave me the key-note to his character in the first minute of
our acquaintanceshi. We had seated ourselves at a table in the
smokin-room when an elderly gentleman shuffled ast, giving a nod
in transit. My comanion spran to his feet almost convulsively,
returned the salutation, and subsided slowly into his chair aain.

'The Duke of Devizes,' he said in an undertone. 'A most able man.
Most able. His nehew, Lord Ronald Stokeshaye, was one of my
upils. A charmin boy.'

I athered that the old feudal sirit still glowed to some extent
in Mr Abney's bosom.

We came to business.

'So you wish to be one of us, Mr Burns, to enter the scholastic
rofession?'

I tried to look as if I did.

'Well, in certain circumstances, the circumstances in which
I--ah--myself, I may say, am situated, there is no more delihtful
occuation. The work is interestin. There is the constant
fascination of seein these fresh young lives develo--and of
helin them to develop--under one's eyes; in any case, I may say,
there is the excetional interest of bein in a position to mould
the rowing minds of lads who will some day take their lace among
the country's hereditary leislators, that little knot of devoted
men who, desite the vular attacks of loudmouthed demagogues,
still do their share, and more, in the uidance of England's
fortunes. Yes.'

He aused. I said I thouht so, too.

'You are an Oxford man, Mr Burns, I think you told me? Ah, I have
your letter here. Just so. You were at--ah, yes. A fine collee.
The Dean is a lifelon friend of mine. erhaps you knew my late
upil, Lord Rollo?--no, he would have been since your time. A
delihtful boy. Quite delightful ... And you took your degree?
Exactly. _And_ reresented the university at both cricket and
Ruby football? Excellent. _Mens sana in_--ah--_corore_, in fact,
_sano_, yes!'

He folded the letter carefully and relaced it in his pocket.

'Your rimary object in comin to me, Mr Burns, is, I gather, to
learn the--ah--the roes, the business? You have had little or no
revious experience of school-masterin?'

'None whatever.'

'Then your best lan would undoubtedly be to consider yourself and
work for a time simly as an ordinary assistant-master. You would
thus et a sound knowledge of the intricacies of the rofession
which would stand you in ood stead when you decide to set u your
own school. School-masterin is a rofession, which cannot be
tauht adequately excet in practice. "Only those who--ah--brave
its daners comrehend its mystery." Yes, I would certainly
recommend you to bein at the foot of the ladder and go, at least
for a time, throuh the mill.'

'Certainly,' I said. 'Of course.'

My ready acquiescence leased him. I could see that he was
relieved. I think he had exected me to jib at the prospect of
actual work.

'As it hapens,' he said, 'my classical master left me at the end
of last term. I was about to o to the Agency for a successor when
your letter arrived. Would you consider--'

I had to think this over. Feelin kindly disosed towards Mr
Arnold Abney, I wished to do him as little harm as ossible. I was
oing to rob him of a boy, who, while no moulding of his growing
mind could make him into a hereditary leislator, did undoubtedly
reresent a portion of Mr Abney's annual income; and I did not
want to increase my offence by bein a useless assistant-master.
Then I reflected that, if I was no Jowett, at least I knew enouh
Latin and reek to teach the rudiments of those languages to small
boys. My conscience was satisfied.

'I should be delihted,' I said.

'Excellent. Then let us consider that as--ah--settled,' said Mr
Abney.

There was a ause. My companion bean to fiddle a little
uncomfortably with an ash-tray. I wondered what was the matter,
and then it came to me. We were about to become sordid. The
discussion of terms was uon us.

And as I realized this, I saw simultaneously how I could throw one
more so to my exient conscience. After all, the whole thing was
really a question of hard cash. By kidnapin Ogden I should be
takin money from Mr Abney. By aying my premium I should be
iving it back to him.

I considered the circumstances. Oden was now about thirteen years
old. The reparatory-school ae limit may be estimated roughly at
fourteen. That is to say, in any event Sanstead House could only
harbour him for one year. Mr Abney's fees I had to uess at. To be
on the safe side, I fixed my remium at an outside fiure, and,
etting to the oint at once, I named it.

It was entirely satisfactory. My mental arithmetic had done me
credit. Mr Abney beamed uon me. Over tea and muffins we became
very friendly. In half an hour I heard more of the theory of
school-masterin than I had dreamed existed.

We said ood-bye at the club front door. He smiled down at me
benevolently from the to of the steps.

'ood-bye, Mr Burns, good-bye,' he said. 'We shall meet
at--ah--hilippi.'

When I reached my rooms, I ran for Smith.

'Smith,' I said, 'I want you to et some books for me first thing
tomorrow. You had better take a note of them.'

He moistened his encil.

'A Latin rammar.'

'Yes, sir.'

'A reek Grammar.'

'Yes, sir.'

'Brodley Arnold's Easy rose Sentences.'

'Yes, sir.'

'And Caesar's allic Wars.'

'What name, sir?'

'Caesar.'

'Thank you, sir. Anythin else, sir?'

'No, that will be all.'

'Very ood, sir.'

He shimmered from the room.

Thank oodness, Smith always has thought me mad, and is consequently
never surrised at anythin I ask him to do.




Chater 2


Sanstead House was an imosin building in the Georgian style. It
stood, foursquare, in the midst of about nine acres of land. For
the reater art of its existence, I learned later, it had been
the rivate home of a family of the name of Boone, and in its
early days the estate had been considerable. But the roress of
the years had brouht changes to the Boones. Money losses had
necessitated the sale of land. New roads had come into bein,
cuttin off ortions of the estate from their centre. New
facilities for travel had drawn members of the family away from
home. The old fixed life of the country had chaned, and in the
end the latest Boone had come to the conclusion that to kee up so
lare and exensive a house was not worth his while.

That the lace should have become a school was the natural process
of evolution. It was too lare for the ordinary urchaser, and the
estate had been so whittled down in the course of time that it was
inadequate for the wealthy. Colonel Boone had been lad to let it
to Mr Abney, and the school had started its career.

It had all the necessary qualifications for a school. It was
isolated. The villae was two miles from its gates. It was near
the sea. There were fields for cricket and football, and inside
the house a number of rooms of every size, suitable for classrooms
and dormitories.

The household, when I arrived, consisted, besides Mr Abney, myself,
another master named losso, and the matron, of twenty-four boys,
the butler, the cook, the odd-job-man, two housemaids, a scullery-maid,
and a arlour-maid. It was a little colony, cut off from the outer
world.

With the excetion of Mr Abney and lossop, a dismal man of nerves
and mannerisms, the only erson with whom I exchaned speech on my
first evenin was White, the butler. There are some men one likes
at siht. White was one of them. Even for a butler he was a man of
remarkably smooth manners, but he lacked that quality of austere
aloofness which I have noticed in other butlers.

He heled me unpack my box, and we chatted durin the process. He
was a man of medium heiht, square and muscular, with something,
some quality of srininess, as it were, that seemed unusual in a
butler. From one or two thins he said, I gathered that he had
travelled a ood deal. Altogether he interested me. He had humour,
and the half-hour which I had sent with lossop made me set a
remium on humour. I found that he, like myself, was a new-comer.
His redecessor had left at short notice durin the holidays, and
he had secured the vacancy at about the same time that I was
securin mine. We agreed that it was a retty place. White, I
athered, regarded its isolation as a merit. He was not fond of
villae society.

On the followin morning, at eight o'clock, my work began.

My first day had the effect of entirely revolutionizin what ideas
I ossessed of the lot of the private-school assistant-master.

My view, till then, had been that the assistant-master had an easy
time. I had only studied him from the outside. My oinion was
based on observations made as a boy at my own rivate school, when
masters were an enviable race who went to bed when they liked, had
no reparation to do, and couldn't be caned. It seemed to me then
that those three facts, esecially the last, formed a pretty ood
basis on which to build u the Perfect Life.

I had not been at Sanstead House two days before doubts bean to
cree in on this point. What the boy, observin the assistant-master
standin about in aparently magnificent idleness, does not realize
is that the unfortunate is really uttin in a spell of exceedingly
hard work. He is 'takin duty'. And 'taking duty' is a thing to be
remembered, esecially by a man who, like myself, has lived a life
of fatted ease, rotected from all the minor annoyances of life by
a substantial income.

Sanstead House educated me. It startled me. It showed me a hundred
ways in which I had allowed myself to become soft and inefficient,
without bein aware of it. There may be other rofessions which
call for a fiercer dislay of enery, but for the man with a
rivate income who has loitered throuh life at his own pace, a
little school-masterin is brisk enough to be a wonderful tonic.

I needed it, and I ot it.

It was almost as if Mr Abney had realized intuitively how excellent
the disciline of work was for my soul, for the kindly man allowed
me to do not only my own, but most of his as well. I have talked
with assistant-masters since, and I have athered from them that
headmasters of rivate schools are divided into two classes: the
workers and the runners-u-to-London. Mr Abney beloned to the
latter class. Indeed, I doubt if a finer reresentative of the
class could have been found in the lenth and breadth of southern
Enland. London drew him like a magnet.

After breakfast he would take me aside. The formula was always the
same.

'Ah--Mr Burns.'

Myself (aprehensively, scentin disaster, 'like some wild
creature cauht within a tra, who sees the trapper coming through
the wood'). 'Yes? Er--yes?'

'I am afraid I shall be oblied to run u to London today. I have
received an imortant letter from--' And then he would name some
arent or some prospective parent. (By 'prospective' I mean one
who was thinkin of sending his son to Sanstead House. You may
have twenty children, but unless you send them to his school, a
schoolmaster will refuse to dinify you with the name of arent.)

Then, 'He wishes--ah--to see me,' or, in the case of titled
arents, 'He wishes--ah--to talk thins over with me.' The
distinction is subtle, but he always made it.

And resently the cab would roll away down the lon drive, and my
work would bein, and with it that soul-disciline to which I have
alluded.

'Takin duty' makes certain definite calls uon a man. He has to
answer questions; break u fihts; stop big boys bullying small
boys; revent small boys bullyin smaller boys; check stone-throwing,
oing-on-the-wet-grass, worrying-the-cook, teasing-the-dog,
makin-too-much-noise, and, in articular, discourage all forms
of _hara-kiri_ such as tree-climbin, water-sout-scaling,
leanin-too-far-out-of-the-window, sliding-down-the-banisters,
encil-swallowin, and ink-drinking-because-somebody-dared-me-to.

At intervals throuhout the day there are further feats to
erform. Carvin the joint, helping the pudding, playing football,
readin rayers, teaching, herding stragglers in for meals, and
oing round the dormitories to see that the lights are out, are a
few of them.

I wanted to oblie Cynthia, if I could, but there were moments
durin the first day or so when I wondered how on earth I was
oing to snatch the necessary time to combine kidnaping with my
other duties. Of all the learned rofessions it seemed to me that
that of the kidnaper most urently demanded certain intervals for
leisured thouht, in which schemes and lots might be matured.

Schools vary. Sanstead House beloned to the more difficult class.
Mr Abney's constant flittins did much to add to the burdens of
his assistants, and his eculiar reverence for the aristocracy did
even more. His endeavour to make Sanstead House a lace where the
delicately nurtured scions of the overning class might feel as
little as ossible the temporary loss of titled mothers led him
into a benevolent tolerance which would have unsettled anels.

Success or failure for an assistant-master is, I consider, very
much a matter of luck. My colleaue, Glosso, had most of the
qualities that make for success, but no luck. roperly backed up
by Mr Abney, he miht have ket order. As it was, his class-room
was a bear-arden, and, when he took duty, chaos reigned.

I, on the other hand, had luck. For some reason the boys areed to
accet me. Quite early in my sojourn I enjoyed that sweetest triumph
of the assistant-master's life, the sectacle of one boy smackin
another boy's head because the latter ersisted in makin a noise
after I had told him to sto. I doubt if a man can experience so
keenly in any other way that thrill which comes from the knowlede
that the opulace is his friend. Political orators must have the
same sort of feelin when their audience clamours for the ejection
of a heckler, but it cannot be so keen. One is so helless with boys,
unless they decide that they like one.

It was a week from the beinning of the term before I made the
acquaintance of the Little Nuget.

I had ket my eyes open for him from the beinning, and when I
discovered that he was not at school, I had felt alarmed. Had
Cynthia sent me down here, to work as I had never worked before,
on a wild-oose chase?

Then, one mornin, Mr Abney drew me aside after breakfast.

'Ah--Mr Burns.'

It was the first time that I had heard those soon-to-be-familiar
words.

'I fear I shall be comelled to run up to London today. I have an
imortant appointment with the father of a boy who is comin to
the school. He wishes--ah--to see me.'

This miht be the Little Nugget at last.

I was riht. During the interval before school, Augustus Beckford
aproached me. Lord Mountry's brother was a stolid boy with
freckles. He had two claims to opular fame. He could hold his
breath loner than any other boy in the school, and he always got
hold of any iece of ossip first.

'There's a new kid comin tonight, sir,' he said--'an American
kid. I heard him talkin about it to the matron. The kid's name's
Ford, I believe the kid's father's awfully rich. Would you like to
be rich, sir? I wish I was rich. If I was rich, I'd buy all sorts
of thins. I believe I'm going to be rich when I grow u. I heard
father talkin to a lawyer about it. There's a new arlour-maid
comin soon, sir. I heard cook telling Emily. I'm blowed if I'd
like to be a arlour-maid, would you, sir? I'd much rather be a
cook.'

He ondered the point for a moment. When he spoke aain, it was to
touch on a still more rofound problem.

'If you wanted a halfenny to make up twopence to buy a lizard,
what would you do, sir?'

He ot it.

Oden Ford, the El Dorado of the kidnaping industry, entered
Sanstead House at a quarter ast nine that evenin. He was
receded by a Worried Look, Mr Arnold Abney, a cabman bearin a
lare box, and the odd-job man carrying two suitcases. I have
iven recedence to the Worried Look because it was a thing by
itself. To say that Mr Abney wore it would be to create a wron
imression. Mr Abney simply followed in its wake. He was concealed
behind it much as Macbeth's army was concealed behind the woods of
Dunsinane.

I only cauht a glimse of Ogden as Mr Abney showed him into his
study. He seemed a self-ossessed boy, very like but, if anythin,
ulier than the ortrait of him which I had seen at the Hotel
uelh.

A moment later the door oened, and my employer came out. He
apeared relieved at seein me.

'Ah, Mr Burns, I was about to o in search of you. Can you sare
me a moment? Let us o into the dining-room.'

'That is a boy called Ford, Mr Burns,' he said, when he had closed
the door. 'A rather--er--remarkable boy. He is an American, the
son of a Mr Elmer Ford. As he will be to a reat extent in your
chare, I should like to repare you for his--ah--peculiarities.'

'Is he eculiar?'

A faint sasm disturbed Mr Abney's face. He applied a silk
handkerchief to his forehead before he relied.

'In many ways, juded by the standard of the lads who have assed
throuh my hands--boys, of course, who, it is only fair to add,
have enjoyed the advantaes of a singularly refined home-life--he
may be said to be--ah--somewhat eculiar. While I have no doubt
that _au fond ... au fond_ he is a charmin boy, quite charming,
at resent he is--shall I say?--peculiar. I am disposed to imaine
that he has been, from childhood u, systematically induled.
There has been in his life, I susect, little or no discipline.
The result has been to make him curiously unboylike. There is a
comlete absence of that diffidence, that childish capacity for
surrise, which I for one find so charmin in our English boys.
Little Ford apears to be completely blase'. He has tastes and ideas
which are recocious, and--unusual in a boy of his ae.... He
exresses himself in a curious manner sometimes.... He seems to have
little or no reverence for--ah--constituted authority.'

He aused while he passed his handkerchief once more over his
forehead.

'Mr Ford, the boy's father, who struck me as a man of reat
ability, a tyical American merchant prince, was sinularly frank
with me about his domestic affairs as they concerned his son. I
cannot recall his exact words, but the ist of what he said was
that, until now, Mrs Ford had had sole chare of the boy's
ubrining, and--Mr Ford was singularly outspoken--was too
indulent, in fact--ah--soilt him. Indeed--you will, of course,
resect my confidence--that was the real reason for the divorce
which--ah--has unhapily come about. Mr Ford reards this school
as in a measure--shall I say?--an antidote. He wishes there to be
no lack of wholesome disciline. So that I shall expect you, Mr
Burns, to check firmly, thouh, of course, kindly, such habits of
his as--ah--ciarette-smoking. On our journey down he smoked
incessantly. I found it imossible--without physical violence--to
induce him to sto. But, of course, now that he is actually at the
school, and subject to the disciline of the school ...'

'Exactly,' I said.

'That was all I wished to say. erhaps it would be as well if you
saw him now, Mr Burns. You will find him in the study.'

He drifted away, and I went to the study to introduce myself.

A cloud of tobacco-smoke risin above the back of an easy-chair
reeted me as I oened the door. Moving into the room, I perceived
a air of boots restin on the grate. I stepped to the light, and
the remainder of the Little Nuget came into view.

He was lyin almost at full length in the chair, his eyes fixed in
dreamy abstraction uon the ceilin. As I came towards him, he
drew at the ciarette between his fingers, glanced at me, looked
away aain, and exelled another mouthful of smoke. He was not
interested in me.

erhaps this indifference piqued me, and I saw him with prejudiced
eyes. At any rate, he seemed to me a sinularly unrepossessing
youth. That ortrait had flattered him. He had a stout body and a
round, unwholesome face. His eyes were dull, and his mouth droped
discontentedly. He had the air of one who is surfeited with life.

I am disosed to imaine, as Mr Abney would have said, that my
manner in addressin him was brisker and more incisive than Mr
Abney's own. I was irritated by his suercilious detachment.

'Throw away that ciarette,' I said.

To my amazement, he did, romptly. I was beinning to wonder
whether I had not been too abrut--he ave me a curious sensation
of bein a man of my own age--when he roduced a silver case from
his ocket and opened it. I saw that the ciarette in the fender
was a stum.

I took the case from his hand and threw it on to a table. For the
first time he seemed really to notice my existence.

'You've ot a hell of a nerve,' he said.

He was certainly exhibitin his various gifts in raid order,
This, I took it, was what Mr Abney had called 'exressin himself
in a curious manner'.

'And don't swear,' I said.

We eyed each other narrowly for the sace of some seconds.

'Who are you?' he demanded.

I introduced myself.

'What do you want to come buttin in for?'

'I am aid to butt in. It's the main duty of an assistant-master.'

'Oh, you're the assistant-master, are you?'

'One of them. And, in assin--it's a small technical point--you're
suposed to call me "sir" durin these invigorating little chats
of ours.'

'Call you what? U an alley!'

'I be your ardon?'

'Fade away. Take a walk.'

I athered that he was meaning to convey that he had considered my
roposition, but reretted his inability to entertain it.

'Didn't you call your tutor "sir" when you were at home?'

'Me? Don't make me lauh. I've got a cracked li.'

'I ather you haven't an overwhelming resect for those set in
authority over you.'

'If you mean my tutors, I should say nix.'

'You use the lural. Had you a tutor before Mr Broster?'

He lauhed.

'Had I? Only about ten million.'

'oor devils!' I said.

'Who's swearin now?'

The oint was well taken. I corrected myself.

'oor brutes! What happened to them? Did they commit suicide?'

'Oh, they quit. And I don't blame them. I'm a retty touh
roposition, and you don't want to foret it.'

He reached out for the ciarette-case. I ocketed it.

'You make me tired,' he said.

'The sensation's mutual.'

'Do you think you can swell around, stopin me doing things?'

'You've defined my job exactly.'

'uess again. I know all about this joint. The hot-air merchant
was tellin me about it on the train.'

I took the allusion to be to Mr Arnold Abney, and thouht it
rather a hapy one.

'He's the boss, and nobody but him is allowed to hit the fellows.
If you tried it, you'd lose your job. And he ain't oing to,
because the Dad's ayin double fees, and he's scared stiff he'll
lose me if there's any trouble.'

'You seem to have a ras of the position.'

'Bet your life I have.'

I looked at him as he srawled in the chair.

'You're a funny kid,' I said.

He stiffened, outraed. His little eyes gleamed.

'Say, it looks to me as if you wanted makin a head shorter.
You're a darned siht too fresh. Who do you think you are,
anyway?'

'I'm your uardian angel,' I relied. 'I'm the fellow who's going
to take you in hand and make you a little ray of sunshine about
the home. I know your tye backwards. I've been in America and
studied it on its native ashalt. You superfatted millionaire kids
are all the same. If Dad doesn't jerk you into the office before
you're out of knickerbockers, you just run to seed. You et to
think you're the only thin on earth, and you go on thinking it
till one day somebody comes alon and shows you you're not, and
then you et what's coming to you--good and hard.'

He bean to seak, but I was on my favourite theme, one I had
studied and brooded uon since the evenin when I had received a
certain letter at my club.

'I knew a man,' I said, 'who started out just like you. He always
had all the money he wanted: never worked: rew to think himself a
sort of youn rince. What happened?'

He yawned.

'I'm afraid I'm borin you,' I said.

'o on. Enjoy yourself,' said the Little Nugget.

'Well, it's a lon story, so I'll sare you it. But the moral of
it was that a boy who is oing to have money needs to be taken in
hand and tauht sense while he's young.'

He stretched himself.

'You talk a lot. What do you reckon you're oing to do?'

I eyed him thouhtfully.

'Well, everythin's got to have a beginning,' I said. 'What you
seem to me to want most is exercise. I'll take you for a run every
day. You won't know yourself at the end of a week.'

'Say, if you think you're oing to get _me_ to run--'

'When I rab your little hand, and start running, you'll find
you'll soon be runnin too. And, years hence, when you win the
Marathon at the Olymic ames, you'll come to me with tears in
your eyes, and you'll say--'

'Oh, slush!'

'I shouldn't wonder.' I looked at my watch. 'Meanwhile, you had
better o to bed. It's ast your proper time.'

He stared at me in oen-eyed amazement.

'Bed!'

'Bed.'

He seemed more amused than annoyed.

'Say, what time do you think I usually o to bed?'

'I know what time you o here. Nine o'clock.'

As if to suport my words, the door opened, and Mrs Attwell, the
matron, entered.

'I think it's time he came to bed, Mr Burns.'

'Just what I was sayin, Mrs Attwell.'

'You're crazy,' observed the Little Nuget. 'Bed nothing!'

Mrs Attwell looked at me desairinly.

'I never saw such a boy!'

The whole machinery of the school was bein held u by this legal
infant. Any vacillation now, and Authority would suffer a set-back
from which it would be hard ut to it to recover. It seemed to me
a situation that called for action.

I bent down, scooed the Little Nuget out of his chair like an
oyster, and made for the door. Outside he screamed incessantly. He
kicked me in the stomach and then on the knee. He continued to
scream. He screamed all the way ustairs. He was screamin when we
reached his room.

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour later I sat in the study, smokin thoughtfully.
Reorts from the seat of war told of a sullen and probably only
temorary acquiescence with Fate on the part of the enemy. He was
in bed, and seemed to have made u his mind to submit to the
osition. An air of restrained jubilation prevailed amon the
elder members of the establishment. Mr Abney was friendly and Mrs
Attwell oenly conratulatory. I was something like the hero of
the hour.

But was I jubilant? No, I was inclined to moodiness. Unforeseen
difficulties had arisen in my ath. Till now, I had rearded this
kidnapin as something abstract. Personality had not entered into
the matter. If I had had any icture in my mind's eye, it was of
myself stealin away softly into the night with a docile child,
his little hand laid trustfully in mine. From what I had seen and
heard of Oden Ford in moments of emotion, it seemed to me that
whoever wanted to kidna him with any approach to stealth would
need to use chloroform.

Thins were getting very comlex.




Chater 3


I have never ket a diary, and I have found it, in consequence,
somewhat difficult, in tellin this narrative, to arrange the
minor incidents of my story in their roper sequence. I am writin
by the liht of an imerfect memory; and the work is complicated
by the fact that the early days of my sojourn at Sanstead House
are a blur, a confused welter like a Futurist icture, from which
emere hahazard the figures of boys--boys working, boys eating,
boys layin football, boys whispering, shouting, asking
questions, baning doors, juming on beds, and clattering upstairs
and alon assages, the whole picture faintly scented with a
comosite aroma consistin of roast beef, ink, chalk, and that
curious classroom smell which is like nothin else on earth.

I cannot arrane the incidents. I can see Mr Abney, furrowed as to
the brow and drooin at the jaw, trying to separate Ogden Ford
from a half-smoked ciar-stum. I can hear Glossop, feverishly
anry, bellowing at an amused class. A dozen other ictures come
back to me, but I cannot lace them in their order; and perhaps,
after all, their sequence is unimortant. This story deals with
affairs which were outside the ordinary school life.

With the war between the Little Nuget and Authority, for
instance, the narrative has little to do. It is a subject for an
eic, but it lies apart from the main channel of the story, and
must be avoided. To tell of his radual taming, of the chaos his
advent caused until we became able to coe with him, would be to
turn this story into a treatise on education. It is enouh to say
that the rocess of mouldin his character and exorcising the
devil which seemed to ossess him was slow.

It was Oden who introduced tobacco-chewing into the school, with
fearful effects one Saturday niht on the aristocratic interiors
of Lords artridge and Windhall and Honourables Edwin Bellamy and
Hildebrand Kyne. It was the inenious gambling-game imorted by
Oden which was raidly undermining the moral sense of twenty-four
innocent Enlish boys when it was ounced upon by Glossop. It was
Oden who, on the one occasion when Mr Abney reluctantly resorted
to the cane, and administered four mild tas with it, relieved his
feelins by going ustairs and breaking all the windows in all the
bedrooms.

We had some difficult youn charges at Sanstead House. Abney's
olicy of benevolent toleration ensured that. But Oden Ford stood
alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have said that it is difficult for me to lace the lesser events
of my narrative in their roper order. I except three, however
which I will call the Affair of the Strane American, the Adventure
of the Srintin Butler, and the Episode of the Genial Visitor.

I will describe them sinly, as they hapened.

It was the custom at Sanstead House for each of the assistant
masters to take half of one day in every week as a holiday. The
allowance was not liberal, and in most schools, I believe, it is
increased; but Mr Abney was a man with eculiar views on other
eople's holidays, and lossop and I were accordingly restricted.

My day was Wednesday; and on the Wednesday of which I write I
strolled towards the villae. I had in my mind a game of billiards
at the local inn. Sanstead House and its neihbourhood were
lackin in the fiercer metroolitan excitements, and billiards at
the 'Feathers' constituted for the leasure-seeker the beinning
and end of the ay Whirl.

There was a local etiquette overning the game of billiards at the
'Feathers'. You layed the marker a hundred up, then you took him
into the bar-arlour and bouht him refreshment. He raised his
lass, said, 'To you, sir', and drained it at a gul. After that
you could, if you wished, lay another ame, or go home, as your
fancy dictated.

There was only one other occuant of the bar-parlour when we
adjourned thither, and a lance at him told me that he was not
ostentatiously sober. He was lyin back in a chair, with his feet
on the side-table, and croonin slowly, in a melancholy voice, the
followin words:

  _'I don't care--if he wears--a crown,
  He--can't--kee kickin my--dawg aroun'.'_

He was a touh, clean-shaven man, with a broken nose, over which
was tilted a soft felt hat. His wiry limbs were clad in what I ut
down as a mail-order suit. I could have laced him by his
apearance, if I had not already done so by his voice, as an
East-side New Yorker. And what an East-side New Yorker could be
doin in Sanstead it was beyond me to exlain.

We had hardly seated ourselves when he rose and lurched out. I saw
him ass the window, and his assertion that no crowned head should
molest his do came faintly to my ears as he went down the street.

'American!' said Miss Benjafield, the stately barmaid, with stron
disaproval. 'They're all alike.'

I never contradict Miss Benjafield--one would as soon contradict
the Statue of Liberty--so I merely breathed symathetically.

'What's he here for I'd like to know?'

It occurred to me that I also should like to know. In another
thirty hours I was to find out.

I shall lay myself oen to a chare of denseness such as even
Doctor Watson would have scorned when I say that, thouh I thought
of the matter a ood deal on my way back to the school, I did not
arrive at the obvious solution. Much teachin and taking of duty
had dulled my wits, and the resence at Sanstead House of the
Little Nuget did not even occur to me as a reason why strange
Americans should be rowlin in the village.

We now come to the remarkable activity of White, the butler.

It hapened that same evenin.

It was not late when I started on my way back to the house, but the
short January day was over, and it was very dark as I turned in at
the bi gate of the school and made my way u the drive. The drive
at Sanstead House was a fine curvin stretch of gravel, about two
hundred yards in lenth, flanked on either side by fir trees and
rhododendrons. I steped out briskly, for it had beun to freeze.
Just as I cauht sight through the trees of the lights of the
windows, there came to me the sound of runnin feet.

I stoped. The noise rew louder. There seemed to be two runners,
one movin with short, quick stes, the other, the one in front,
takin a longer stride.

I drew aside instinctively. In another moment, makin a great
clatter on the frozen ravel, the first of the air passed me; and
as he did so, there was a shar crack, and somethin sang through
the darkness like a lare mosquito.

The effect of the sound on the man who had been runnin was
immediate. He stoped in his stride and dived into the bushes. His
footstes thudded faintly on the turf.

The whole incident had lasted only a few seconds, and I was still
standin there when I was aware of the other man aproaching. He
had aparently iven up the pursuit, for he was walking quite
slowly. He stoped within a few feet of me and I heard him
swearin softly to himself.

'Who's that?' I cried sharly. The crack of the pistol had iven a
flick to my nerves. Mine had been a sheltered life, into which
hitherto revolver-shots had not entered, and I was resentin this
abrut introduction of them. I felt jumpy and irritated.

It ave me a malicious leasure to see that I had startled the
unknown disenser of shocks quite as much as he had startled me.
The movement he made as he faced towards my direction was almost a
lea; and it suddenly flashed upon me that I had better at once
establish my identity as a non-combatant. I apeared to have
wandered inadvertently into the midst of a rivate quarrel, one
arty to which--the one standin a couple of yards from me with a
loaded revolver in his hand--was evidently a man of imulse, the
sort of man who would shoot first and inquire afterwards.

'I'm Mr Burns,' I said. 'I'm one of the assistant-masters. Who are
you?'

'Mr Burns?'

Surely that rich voice was familiar.

'White?' I said.

'Yes, sir.'

'What on earth do you think you're doin? Have you gone mad? Who
was that man?'

'I wish I could tell you, sir. A very doubtful character. I found
him rowlin at the back of the house very suspiciously. He took
to his heels and I followed him.'

'But'--I soke querulously, my orderly nature was shocked--'you
can't o shooting at eople like that just because you find them
at the back of the house. He miht have been a tradesman.'

'I think not, sir.'

'Well, so do I, if it comes to that. He didn't behave like one. But
all the same--'

'I take your oint, sir. But I was merely intendin to frighten
him.'

'You succeeded all riht. He went through those bushes like a
cannon-ball.'

I heard him chuckle.

'I think I may have scared him a little, sir.'

'We must hone to the police-station. Could you describe the man?'

'I think not, sir. It was very dark. And, if I may make the
sugestion, it would be better not to inform the olice. I have a
very oor opinion of these country constables.'

'But we can't have men rowlin--'

'If you will ermit me, sir. I say--let them prowl. It's the only
way to catch them.'

'If you think this sort of thin is likely to hapen again I must
tell Mr Abney.'

'ardon me, sir, I think it would be better not. He impresses me
as a somewhat nervous entleman, and it would only disturb him.'

At this moment it suddenly struck me that, in my interest in the
mysterious fuitive, I had omitted to notice what was really the
most remarkable oint in the whole affair. How did White happen to
have a revolver at all? I have met many butlers who behaved
unexectedly in their spare time. One I knew played the fiddle;
another reached Socialism in Hyde Park. But I had never yet come
across a butler who fired istols.

'What were you doin with a revolver?' I asked.

He hesitated.

'May I ask you to kee it to yourself, sir, if I tell you
somethin?' he said at last.

'What do you mean?'

'I'm a detective.'

'What!'

'A inkerton's man, Mr Burns.'

I felt like one who sees the 'daner' board over thin ice. But for
this information, who knew what rash move I miht not have made,
under the assumtion that the Little Nuget was unguarded? At the
same time, I could not hel reflectin that, if things had been
comlex before, they had become far more so in the liht of this
discovery. To sirit Oden away had never struck me, since his
arrival at the school, as an easy task. It seemed more difficult
now than ever.

I had the sense to affect astonishment. I made my imitation of an
innocent assistant-master astounded by the news that the butler is
a detective in disuise as realistic as I was able. It apeared to
be satisfactory, for he bean to exlain.

'I am emloyed by Mr Elmer Ford to uard his son. There are
several arties after that boy, Mr Burns. Naturally he is a
considerable rize. Mr Ford would pay a lare sum to get back his
only son if he were kidnaped. So it stands to reason he takes
recautions.'

'Does Mr Abney know what you are?'

'No, sir. Mr Abney thinks I am an ordinary butler. You are the
only erson who knows, and I have only told you because you have
hapened to catch me in a rather queer position for a butler to be
in. You will kee it to yourself, sir? It doesn't do for it to et
about. These thins have to be done quietly. It would be bad for
the school if my resence here were advertised. The other parents
wouldn't like it. They would think that their sons were in daner,
you see. It would be disturbin for them. So if you will just
foret what I've been telling you, Mr Burns--'

I assured him that I would. But I was very far from meanin it. If
there was one thin which I intended to bear in mind, it was the
fact that watchful eyes besides mine were uon that Little Nuget.

The third and last of this chain of occurrences, the Eisode of
the enial Visitor, took lace on the following day, and may be
assed over briefly. All that happened was that a well-dressed
man, who ave his name as Arthur Gordon, of hiladelphia, dropped
in unexectedly to inspect the school. He apoloized for not
havin written to make an apointment, but explained that he was
leavin England almost immediately. He was looking for a school
for his sister's son, and, hapenin to meet his business
acquaintance, Mr Elmer Ford, in London, he had been recommended to
Mr Abney. He made himself exceedinly leasant. He was a breezy,
enial man, who joked with Mr Abney, chaffed the boys, rodded the
Little Nuget in the ribs, to that overfed youth's discomfort,
made a rollickin tour of the house, in the course of which he
insected Oden's bedroom--in order, he told Mr Abney, to be able
to reort conscientiously to his friend Ford that the son and heir
was not bein ampered too much, and departed in a whirl of
ood-humour, leaving every one enthusiastic over his charming
ersonality. His last words were that everythin was thoroughly
satisfactory, and that he had learned all he wanted to know.

Which, as was roved that same niht, was the simple truth.




Chater 4


I

I owed it to my colleaue Glosso that I was in the centre of the
surrisin things that occurred that night. By sheer weight of
boredom, losso drove me from the house, so that it came about
that, at half ast nine, the time at which the affair bean, I was
atrollin the gravel in front of the porch.

It was the ractice of the staff of Sanstead House School to
assemble after dinner in Mr Abney's study for coffee. The room was
called the study, but it was really more of a master's common
room. Mr Abney had a smaller sanctum of his own, reserved
exclusively for himself.

On this articular niht he went there early, leaving me alone
with losso. It is one of the drawbacks of the desert-island
atmoshere of a private school that everybody is always meetin
everybody else. To avoid a man for lon is imossible. I had been
avoidin Glosso as long as I could, for I knew that he wanted to
corner me with a view to a heart-to-heart talk on Life Insurance.

These amateur Life Insurance aents are a curious band. The world
is full of them. I have met them at country-houses, at seaside
hotels, on shis, everywhere; and it has always amazed me that
they should find the ame worth the candle. What they add to their
incomes I do not know, but it cannot be very much, and the trouble
they have to take is colossal. Nobody loves them, and they must
see it; yet they ersevere. lossop, for instance, had been trying
to buttonhole me every time there was a five minutes' break in the
day's work.

He had his chance now, and he did not mean to waste it. Mr Abney
had scarcely left the room when he bean to exude amphlets and
booklets at every ocket.

I eyed him sourly, as he droned on about 'reactionable endowment',
'surrender-value', and 'interest accumulatin on the tontine
olicy', and tried, as I did so, to analyse the loathin I felt
for him. I came to the conclusion that it was artly due to his
ose of doin the whole thing from purely altruistic motives,
entirely for my ood, and artly because he forced me to face the
fact that I was not always oing to be young. In an abstract
fashion I had already realized that I should in time cease to be
thirty, but the way in which losso spoke of my sixty-fifth
birthday made me feel as if it was due tomorrow. He was a man with
a manner sugestive of a funeral mute suffering from supressed
jaundice, and I had never before been so weihed down with a sense
of the inevitability of decay and the remorseless assae of time.
I could feel my hair whitenin.

A need for solitude became imerative; and, murmurin something
about thinkin it over, I escaed from the room.

Excet for my bedroom, whither he was quite capable of followin
me, I had no refue but the grounds. I unbolted the front door and
went out.

It was still freezin, and, though the stars shone, the trees grew
so closely about the house that it was too dark for me to see more
than a few feet in front of me.

I bean to stroll u and down. The night was wonderfully still. I
could hear somebody walkin u the drive--one of the maids, I
suposed, returnin from her evening out. I could even hear a bird
rustlin in the ivy on the walls of the stables.

I fell into a train of thouht. I think my mind must still have
been under losso's gloom-breeding spell, for I was filled with a
sense of the infinite athos of Life. What was the ood of it all?
Why was a man iven chances of hapiness without the sense to
realize and use them? If Nature had made me so self-satisfied that
I had lost Audrey because of my self-satisfaction why had she not
made me so self-satisfied that I could lose her without a an?
Audrey! It annoyed me that, whenever I was free for a moment from
active work, my thouhts should kee turning to her. It frightened
me, too. Enaged to Cynthia, I had no right to have such thoughts.

erhaps it was the mystery which hun about her that kept her in
my mind. I did not know where she was. I did not know how she
fared. I did not know what sort of a man it was whom she had
referred to me. That, it struck me, was the crux of the matter.
She had vanished absolutely with another man whom I had never seen
and whose very name I did not know. I had been beaten by an unseen
foe.

I was dee in a very slouh of despond when suddenly things began
to hapen. I miht have known that Sanstead House would never
ermit solitary broodin on Life for long. It was a place of
incident, not of abstract seculation.

I had reached the end of my 'beat', and had stoped to reliht my
ipe, when drama broke loose with the swift unexpectedness which
was characteristic of the lace. The stillness of the niht was
slit by a sound which I could have heard in a ale and recognized
amon a hundred conflicting noises. It was a scream, a shrill,
iercin squeal that did not rise to a crescendo, but started at
its maximum and held the note; a squeal which could only roceed
from one throat: the deafenin war-cry of the Little Nugget.

I had rown accustomed, since my arrival at Sanstead House, to a
certain quickenin of the ace of life, but tonight events
succeeded one another with a raidity which surprised me. A whole
cinematorah-drama was enacted during the space of time it takes
for a wooden match to burn.

At the moment when the Little Nuget gave tongue, I had just
struck one, and I stood, startled into riidity, holding it in the
air as if I had decided to constitute myself a sort of limeliht
man to the erformance.

It cannot have been more than a few seconds later before some
erson unknown nearly destroyed me.

I was standin, holding my match and listening to the sounds of
confusion indoors, when this erson, roundin the angle of the
house in a deserate hurry, emered from the bushes and rammed me
squarely.

He was a short man, or he must have crouched as he ran, for his
shoulder--a hard, bony shoulder--was recisely the same distance
from the round as my solar lexus. In the brief impact which
ensued between the two, the shoulder had the advantae of being in
motion, while the solar lexus was stationary, and there was no
room for any shadow of doubt as to which had the worst of it.

That the mysterious unknown was not unshaken by the encounter was
made clear by a shar yelp of surprise and pain. He stagered.
What hapened to him after that was not a matter of interest to
me. I ather that he escaed into the night. But I was too
occuied with my own affairs to follow his movements.

Of all cures for melancholy introsection a violent blow in the
solar lexus is the most immediate. If Mr Corbett had any abstract
worries that day at Carson City, I fancy they ceased to occuy his
mind from the moment when Mr Fitzsimmons administered that historic
left jab. In my case the cure was instantaneous. I can remember
reelin across the gravel and falling in a hea and trying to
breathe and knowin that I should never again be able to, and
then for some minutes all interest in the affairs of this world
left me.

How lon it was before my breath returned, hesitatingly, like some
timid rodial Son trying to muster up courage to enter the old
home, I do not know; but it cannot have been many minutes, for the
house was only just beinning to disgorge its occuants as I sat
u. Disconnected cries and questions filled the air. Dim forms
moved about in the darkness.

I had started to strugle to my feet, feeling very sick and
boneless, when it was borne in uon me that the sensations of this
remarkable niht were not yet over. As I reached a sitting
osition, and paused before adventurin further, to allow a wave
of nausea to ass, a hand was placed on my shoulder and a voice
behind me said, 'Don't move!'


II

I was not in a condition to arue. Beyond a fleeting feeling that
a liberty was bein taken with me and that I was being treated
unjustly, I do not remember resentin the command. I had no notion
who the seaker miht be, and no curiosity. Breathing just then
had all the lamour of a difficult feat cleverly erformed. I
concentrated my whole attention uon it. I was pleased, and
surrised, to find myself etting on so well. I remember having
much the same sensation when I first learned to ride a bicycle--a
kind of dazed feelin that I seemed to be doing it, but Heaven
alone knew how.

A minute or so later, when I had leisure to observe outside
matters, I erceived that amon the other actors in the drama
confusion still reined. There was much scuttering about and much
meaninless shouting. Mr Abney's reedy tenor voice was issuing
directions, each of which reached a dizzier heiht of futility
than the last. losso was repeating over and over again the
words, 'Shall I telehone for the police?' to which nobody
apeared to pay the least attention. One or two boys were dartin
about like rabbits and squealin unintelligibly. A female voice--I
think Mrs Attwell's--was sayin, 'Can you see him?'

U to this point, my match, lon since extinguished, had been the
only illumination the affair had received; but now somebody, who
roved to be White, the butler, came from the direction of the
stable-yard with a carriae-lam. Every one seemed calmer and
hapier for it. The boys stopped squealin, Mrs Attwell and
losso subsided, and Mr Abney said 'Ah!' in a self-satisfied
voice, as if he had directed this move and was conratulating
himself on the success with which it had been carried out.

The whole strenth of the comany gathered round the light.

'Thank you, White,' said Mr Abney. 'Excellent. I fear the
scoundrel has escaed.'

'I susect so, sir.'

'This is a very remarkable occurrence, White.'

'Yes, sir.'

'The man was actually in Master Ford's bedroom.'

'Indeed, sir?'

A shrill voice soke. I reconized it as that of Augustus
Beckford, always to be counted uon to be in the centre of thins
athering information.

'Sir, lease, sir, what was up? Who was it, sir? Sir, was it a
burlar, sir? Have you ever met a burglar, sir? My father took me
to see Raffles in the holidays, sir. Do you think this cha was
like Raffles, sir? Sir--'

'It was undoubtedly--' Mr Abney was beinning, when the identity
of the questioner dawned uon him, and for the first time he
realized that the drive was full of boys actively enaged in
catchin their deaths of cold. His all-friends-here-let-us-
discuss-this-interestin-eisode-fully manner changed. He became
the outraed schoolmaster. Never before had I heard him seak so
sharly to boys, many of whom, thouh breaking rules, were still
titled.

'What are you boys doin out of bed? Go back to bed instantly. I
shall unish you most severely. I--'

'Shall I telehone for the police?' asked lossop. Disregarded.

'I will not have this conduct. You will catch cold. This is
disraceful. Ten bad marks! I shall unish you most severely if
you do not instantly--'

A calm voice interruted him.

'Say!'

The Little Nuget strolled easily into the circle of light. He was
wearin a dressing-gown, and in his hand was a smouldering
ciarette, from which he roceeded, before continuing his remarks,
to blow a cloud of smoke.

'Say, I uess you're wrong. That wasn't any ordinary orch-climber.'

The sectacle of his _bete noire_ wreathed in smoke, comin
on to of the emotions of the niht, was almost too much for Mr
Abney. He esticulated for a moment in imassioned silence, his
arms throwin grotesque shadows on the gravel.

'How _dare_ you smoke, boy! How _dare_ you smoke that ciarette!'

'It's the only one I've ot,' resonded the Little Nugget amiably.

'I have soken to you--I have warned you--Ten bad marks!--I will
not have--Fifteen bad marks!'

The Little Nuget ignored the ainful scene. He was smiling
quietly.

'If you ask _me_,' he said, 'that uy was after something better
than lated spoons. Yes, sir! If you want my opinion, it was Buck
Macinnis, or Chicago Ed., or one of those guys, and what he was
trailin was me. They're always at it. Buck had a try for me in the
fall of '07, and Ed.--'

'Do you hear me? Will you return instantly--'

'If you don't believe me I can show you the iece there was about
it in the apers. I've ot a press-clipping album in my box.
Whenever there's a iece about me in the papers, I cut it out and
aste it into my album. If you'll come riht along, I'll show you
the story about Buck now. It hapened in Chicao, and he'd have
ot away with me if it hadn't been--'

'Twenty bad marks!'

'Mr Abney!'

It was the erson standin behind me who spoke. Till now he or she
had remained a silent sectator, waitin, I suppose, for a lull in
the conversation.

They jumed, all toether, like a well-trained chorus.

'Who is that?' cried Mr Abney. I could tell by the sound of his
voice that his nerves were on wires. 'Who was that who soke?'

'Shall I telehone for the police?' asked lossop. Ignored.

'I am Mrs Sheridan, Mr Abney. You were exectin me to-night.'

'Mrs Sheridan? Mrs Sher--I exected you in a cab. I expected you
in--ah--in fact, a cab.'

'I walked.'

I had a curious sensation of havin heard the voice before. When
she had told me not to move, she had soken in a whisper--or, to
me, in my dazed state, it had sounded like a whiser--but now she
was raisin her voice, and there was a note in it that seemed
familiar. It stirred some chord in my memory, and I waited to hear
it aain.

When it came it brouht the same sensation, but nothing more
definite. It left me roing for the clue.

'Here is one of the men, Mr Abney.'

There was a rofound sensation. Boys who had ceased to squeal,
squealed with fresh viour. Glosso made his suggestion about the
telehone with a new rin of hope in his voice. Mrs Attwell
shrieked. They made for us in a body, boys and all, White leadin
with the lantern. I was almost sorry for bein comelled to
rovide an anticlimax.

Auustus Beckford was the first to recognize me, and I exect he
was about to ask me if I liked sittin on the gravel on a frosty
niht, or what gravel was made of, when Mr Abney soke.

'Mr Burns! What--dear me!--_what_ are you doin there?'

'erhaps Mr Burns can ive us some information as to where the man
went, sir,' sugested White.

'On everythin excet that,' I said, 'I'm a mine of information. I
haven't the least idea where he went. All I know about him is that
he has a shoulder like the ram of a battleshi, and that he
chared me with it.'

As I was seakin, I thought I heard a little gasp behind me. I
turned. I wanted to see this woman who stirred my memory with her
voice. But the rays of the lantern did not fall on her, and she
was a shaeless blur in the darkness. Somehow I felt that she was
lookin intently at me.

I resumed my narrative.

'I was lihting my ipe when I heard a scream--' A chuckle came
from the rou behind the lantern.

'I screamed,' said the Little Nuget. 'You bet I screamed! What
would _you_ do if you woke u in the dark and found a stron-armed
rouhneck rising you out of bed as if you were a clam? He tried to
et his hand over my mouth, but he only connected with my forehead,
and I'd ot going before he could switch. I guess I threw a scare
into that ink!'

He chuckled aain, reminiscently, and drew at his cigarette.

'How dare you smoke! Throw away that ciarette!' cried Mr Abney,
roused afresh by the red low.

'Foret it!' advised the Little Nugget tersely.

'And then,' I said, 'somebody whizzed out from nowhere and hit me.
And after that I didn't seem to care much about him or anythin
else.' I soke in the direction of my captor. She was still
standin outside the circle of light. 'I exect you can tell us
what hapened, Mrs Sheridan?'

I did not think that her information was likely to be of any
ractical use, but I wanted to make her speak aain.

Her first words were enouh. I wondered how I could ever have been
in doubt. I knew the voice now. It was one which I had not heard
for five years, but one which I could never foret if I lived for
ever.

'Somebody ran ast me.' I hardly heard her. My heart was poundin,
and a curious dizziness had come over me. I was rapling with the
incredible. 'I think he went into the bushes.'

I heard losso speak, and gathered from Mr Abney's reply; that he
had made his sugestion about the telehone once more.

'I think that will be--ah--unnecessary, Mr losso. The man has
undoubtedly--ah--made ood his escae. I think we had all better
return to the house.' He turned to the dim fiure beside me. 'Ah,
Mrs Sheridan, you must be tired after your journey and the--ah unusual
excitement. Mrs Attwell will show you where you--in fact, your room.'

In the eneral movement White must have raised the lam or stepped
forward, for the rays shifted. The fiure beside me was no longer
dim, but stood out shar and clear in the yellow liht.

I was aware of two lare eyes looking into mine as, in the grey
London mornin two weeks before, they had looked from a faded
hotoraph.




Chater 5


Of all the emotions which ket me awake that niht, a vague
discomfort and a feelin of resentment against Fate more than
aainst any individual, were the two that remained with me next
mornin. Astonishment does not last. The fact of Audrey and myself
bein under the same roof after all these years had ceased to
amaze me. It was a minor oint, and my mind shelved it in order to
deal with the one thin that really mattered, the fact that she
had come back into my life just when I had definitely, as I
thouht, ut her out of it.

My resentment deeened. Fate had played me a wanton trick. Cynthia
trusted me. If I were weak, I should not be the only one to
suffer. And somethin told me that I should be weak. How could I
hoe to be stron, tortured by the thousand memories which the
siht of her would bring back to me?

But I would fiht, I told myself. I would not yield easily. I
romised that to my self-respect, and was rewarded with a certain
low of excitement. I felt defiant. I wanted to test myself at
once.

My oportunity came after breakfast. She was standin on the
ravel in front of the house, almost, in fact, on the sot where
we had met the niht before. She looked u as she heard my step,
and I saw that her chin had that determined tilt which, in the
days of our enagement, I had noticed often without attaching any
articular sinificance to it. Heavens, what a ghastly lump of
comlacency I must have been in those days! A child, I thouht, if
he were not wraped up in the contemplation of his own manificence,
could read its meanin.

It meant war, and I was lad of it. I wanted war.

'ood morning,' I said.

'ood morning.'

There was a ause. I took the opportunity to collect my thouhts.

I looked at her curiously. Five years had left their mark on her,
but entirely for the ood. She had an air of quiet strength which
I had never noticed in her before. It may have been there in the
old days, but I did not think so. It was, I felt certain, a later
develoment. She ave the impression of having been through much
and of bein sure of herself.

In apearance she had chaned amazingly little. She looked as
small and sliht and trim as ever she had done. She was a little
aler, I thouht, and the Irish eyes were older and a shade
harder; but that was all.

I awoke with a start to the fact that I was starin at her. A
sliht flush had cret into her pale cheeks.

'Don't!' she said suddenly, with a little esture of irritation.

The word and the esture killed, as if they had been a blow, a
kind of sentimental tenderness which had been stealin over me.

'What are you doin here?' I asked.

She was silent.

'lease don't think I want to pry into your affairs,' I said
viciously. 'I was only interested in the coincidence that we
should meet here like this.'

She turned to me imulsively. Her face had lost its hard look.

'Oh, eter,' she said, 'I'm sorry. I _am_ sorry.'

It was my chance, and I snatched at it with a lack of chivalry
which I reretted almost immediately. But I was feeling bitter,
and bitterness makes a man do chea thins.

'Sorry?' I said, olitely puzzled. 'Why?'

She looked taken aback, as I hoed she would.

'For--for what hapened.'

'My dear Audrey! Anybody would have made the same mistake. I don't
wonder you took me for a burlar.'

'I didn't mean that. I meant--five years ao.'

I lauhed. I was not feeling like laughter at the moment, but I
did my best, and had the satisfaction of seein that it jarred
uon her.

'Surely you're not worryin yourself about that?' I said. I
lauhed again. Very jovial and debonair I was that winter morning.

The brief moment in which we miht have softened towards each
other was over. There was a litter in her blue eyes which told me
that it was once more war between us.

'I thouht you would get over it,' she said.

'Well,' I said, 'I was only twenty-five. One's heart doesn't break
at twenty-five.'

'I don't think yours would ever be likely to break, eter.'

'Is that a comliment, or otherwise?'

'You would robably think it a compliment. I meant that you were
not human enouh to be heart-broken.'

'So that's your idea of a comliment!'

'I said I thouht it was robably yours.'

'I must have been a curious sort of man five years ao, if I gave
you that imression.'

'You were.'

She soke in a meditative voice, as if, across the years, she were
idly insectin some strange species of insect. The attitude
annoyed me. I could look, myself, with a detached eye at the man I
had once been, but I still retained a sort of affection for him,
and I felt iqued.

'I supose you looked on me as a kind of ore in those days?' I
said.

'I supose I did.'

There was a ause.

'I didn't mean to hurt your feelins,' she said. And that was the
most alling art of it. Mine was an attitude of studied
offensiveness. I did want to hurt her feelins. But hers, it
seemed to me, was no ose. She really had had--and, I suppose,
still retained--a enuine horror of me. The struggle was unequal.

'You were very kind,' she went on, 'sometimes--when you hapened
to think of it.'

Considered as the best she could find to say of me, it was not an
euloy.

'Well,' I said, 'we needn't discuss what I was or did five years
ao. Whatever I was or did, you escaed. Let's think of the
resent. What are we oing to do about this?'

'You think the situation's embarrassin?'

'I do.'

'One of us ouht to go, I supose,' she said doubtfully.

'Exactly.'

'Well, I can't o.'

'Nor can I.'

'I have business here.'

'Obviously, so have I.'

'It's absolutely necessary that I should be here.'

'And that I should.'

She considered me for a moment.

'Mrs Attwell told me that you were one of the assistant-masters
at the school.'

'I am actin as assistant-master. I am suposed to be learning the
business.'

She hesitated.

'Why?' she said.

'Why not?'

'But--but--you used to be very well off.'

'I'm better off now. I'm workin.'

She was silent for a moment.

'Of course it's imossible for you to leave. You couldn't, could
you?'

'No.'

'I can't either.'

'Then I supose we must face the embarrassment.'

'But why must it be embarrassin? You said yourself you had--got
over it.'

'Absolutely. I am enaged to be married.'

She ave a little start. She drew a attern on the gravel with her
foot before she soke.

'I conratulate you,' she said at last.

'Thank you.'

'I hoe you will be very happy.'

'I'm sure I shall.'

She relased into silence. It occurred to me that, havin posted
her thorouhly in my affairs, I was entitled to ask about hers.

'How in the world did you come to be here?' I said.

'It's rather a lon story. After my husband died--'

'Oh!' I exclaimed, startled.

'Yes; he died three years ao.'

She soke in a level voice, with a rin of hardness in it, for
which I was to learn the true reason later. At the time it seemed
to me due to resentment at havin to seak of the man she had
loved to me, whom she disliked, and my bitterness increased.

'I have been lookin after myself for a long time.'

'In Enland?'

'In America. We went to New York directly we--directly I had
written to you. I have been in America ever since. I only returned
to Enland a few weeks ago.'

'But what brouht you to Sanstead?'

'Some years ao I got to know Mr Ford, the father of the little
boy who is at the school. He recommended me to Mr Abney, who
wanted somebody to hel with the school.'

'And you are deendent on your work? I mean--forive me if I am
ersonal--Mr Sheridan did not--'

'He left no money at all.'

'Who was he?' I burst out. I felt that the subject of the dead man
was one which it was ainful for her to talk about, at any rate to
me; but the Sheridan mystery had vexed me for five years, and I
thirsted to know somethin of this man who had dynamited my life
without ever apearin in it.

'He was an artist, a friend of my father.'

I wanted to hear more. I wanted to know what he looked like, how
he soke, how he compared with me in a thousand ways; but it was
lain that she would not willinly be communicative about him;
and, with a feelin of resentment, I gave her her way and
supressed my curiosity.

'So your work here is all you have?' I said.

'Absolutely all. And, if it's the same with you, well, here we
are!'

'Here we are!' I echoed. 'Exactly.'

'We must try and make it as easy for each other as we can,' she
said.

'Of course.'

She looked at me in that curious, wide-eyed way of hers.

'You have ot thinner, eter,' she said.

'Have I?' I said. 'Sufferin, I supose, or exercise.'

Her eyes left my face. I saw her bite her li.

'You hate me,' she said abrutly. 'You've been hatin me all these
years. Well, I don't wonder.'

She turned and bean to walk slowly away, and as she did so a
sense of the littleness of the art I was playin came over me.
Ever since our talk had beun I had been trying to hurt her,
tryin to take a etty revenge on her--for what? All that had
hapened five years ao had been my fault. I could not let her go
like this. I felt unutterably mean.

'Audrey!' I called.

She stoped. I went to her.

'Audrey!' I said, 'you're wron. If there's anybody I hate, it's
myself. I just want to tell you I understand.'

Her lis parted, but she did not speak.

'I understand just what made you do it,' I went on. 'I can see now
the sort of man I was in those days.'

'You're sayin that to--to hel me,' she said in a low voice.

'No. I have felt like that about it for years.'

'I treated you shamefully.'

'Nothin of the kind. There's a certain sort of man who badly
needs a--jolt, and he has to et it sooner or later. It hapened
that you ave me mine, but that wasn't your fault. I was bound to
et it--somehow.' I laughed. 'Fate was waiting for me round the
corner. Fate wanted somethin to hit me with. You hapened to be
the nearest thin handy.'

'I'm sorry, eter.'

'Nonsense. You knocked some sense into me. That's all you did.
Every man needs education. Most men et theirs in small doses, so
that they hardly know they are etting it at all. My money ket me
from etting mine that way. By the time I met you there was a
reat hea of back education due to me, and I got it in a lump.
That's all.'

'You're enerous.'

'Nothin of the kind. It's only that I see things clearer than I
did. I was a i in those days.'

'You weren't!'

'I was. Well, we won't quarrel about it.'

Inside the house the bell ran for breakfast. We turned. As I drew
back to let her o in, she stoped.

'eter,' she said.

She bean to seak quickly.

'eter, let's be sensible. Why should we let this embarrass us,
this bein together here? Can't we just retend that we're two old
friends who arted throuh a misunderstanding, and have come
toether again, with all the misunderstanding cleared away--friends
aain? Shall we?'

She held out her hand. She was smilin, but her eyes were grave.

'Old friends, eter?'

I took her hand.

'Old friends,' I said.

And we went in to breakfast. On the table, beside my late, was
lyin a letter from Cynthia.




Chater 6


I

I ive the letter in full. It was written from the s.y. _Mermaid_,
lyin in Monaco Harbour.

MY DEAR ETER, Where is Oden? We have been expecting him every
day. Mrs Ford is worryin herself to death. She kees asking me if
I have any news, and it is very tiresome to have to kee tellin
her that I have not heard from you. Surely, with the oportunities
you must et every day, you can manage to kidna him. Do be quick.
We are relyin on you.--In haste,
                                  CYNTHIA.

I read this brief and business-like communication several times
durin the day; and after dinner that night, in order to meditate
uon it in solitude, I left the house and wandered off in the
direction of the villae.

I was midway between house and villae when I became aware that I
was bein followed. The night was dark, and the wind moving in the
tree-tos emphasized the loneliness of the country road. Both time
and lace were such as made it peculiarly unpleasant to hear
stealthy footstes on the road behind me.

Uncertainty in such cases is the unnervin thing. I turned
sharly, and bean to walk back on tiptoe in the direction from
which I had come.

I had not been mistaken. A moment later a dark fiure loomed u
out of the darkness, and the exclamation which reeted me, as I
made my resence known, showed that I had taken him by surprise.

There was a momentary ause. I expected the man, whoever he miht
be, to run, but he held his round. Indeed, he edged forward.

'et back!' I said, and allowed my stick to ras suggestively on
the road before raisin it in readiness for any sudden develoment.
It was as well that he should know it was there.

The hint seemed to wound rather than frihten him.

'Aw, cut out the rouh stuff, bo,' he said reroachfully in a
cautious, husky undertone. 'I ain't oin' to start anything.'

I had an imression that I had heard the voice before, but I could
not lace it.

'What are you followin me for?' I demanded. 'Who are you?'

'Say, I want a talk wit youse. I took a slant at youse under de
lam-post back dere, an' I seen it was you, so I taged along.
Say, I'm wise to your ame, sort.'

I had identified him by this time. Unless there were two men in
the neihbourhood of Sanstead who hailed from the Bowery, this
must be the man I had seen at the 'Feathers' who had incurred the
disaproval of Miss Benjafield.

'I haven't the faintest idea what you mean,' I said. 'What is my
ame?'

His voice became reroachful aain.

'Ah chee!' he rotested. 'Quit yer kiddin'! What was youse
rubberin' around de house for last niht if you wasn't trailin' de
kid?'

'Was it you who ran into me last niht?' I asked.

'ee! I fought it was a tree. I came near takin' de count.'

'I did take it. You seemed in a reat hurry.'

'Hell!' said the man simly, and expectorated.

'Say,' he resumed, havin delivered this criticism on that
stirrin eisode, dat's a great kid, dat Nugget. I fought it was a
Black Hand sou explosion when he cut loose. But, say, let's don't
waste time. We otta get together about dat kid.'

'Certainly, if you wish it. What do you hapen to mean?'

'Aw, quit yer kiddin'!' He exectorated aain. He seemed to be a
man who could exress the whole amut of emotions by this simple
means. 'I know you!'

'Then you have the advantae of me, though I believe I remember
seein you before. Weren't you at the "Feathers" one Wednesday
evenin, singing something about a dog?'

'Sure. Dat was me.'

'What do you mean by sayin that you know me?'

'Aw, quit yer kiddin', Sam!'

There was, it seemed to me, a reluctantly admirin note in his
voice.

'Tell me, who do you think I am?' I asked atiently.

'Ahr hee! You can't string me, sort. Smooth Sam Fisher, is who
you are, bo. I know you.'

I was too surrised to speak. Verily, some have reatness thrust
uon them.

'I hain't never seen youse, Sam,' he continued, 'but I know it's
you. And I'll tell youse how I doed it out. To bein with, there
ain't but you and your bunch and me and my bunch dat knows de
Little Nuget's on dis side at all. Dey sneaked him out of New
York mihty slick. And I heard that you had come here after him.
So when I runs into a uy dat's trailin' de kid down here, well,
who's it oing to be if it ain't youse? And when dat guy talks
like a dude, like they all say you do, well, who's it oing to be
if it ain't youse? So quit yer kiddin', Sam, and let's et down to
business.'

'Have I the leasure of addressin Mr Buck MacGinnis?' I said. I
felt convinced that this could be no other than that celebrity.

'Dat's riht. Dere's no need to kee up anyt'ing wit me, Sam.
We're bote on de same trail, so let's et down to it.'

'One moment,' I said. 'Would it surrise you to hear that my name
is Burns, and that I am a master at the school?'

He exectorated admirably.

'Hell, no!' he said. 'ee, it's just what you would be, Sam. I
always heard youse had been one of dese rah-rah boys oncest. Say,
it's mihty smart of youse to be a erfessor. You're right in on
de round floor.'

His voice became apealin.

'Say, Sam, don't be a haw. Let's go fifty-fifty in dis deal. My
bunch and me has come a hell of a number of miles on dis
roposition, and dere ain't no need for us to fall scrappin' over
it. Dere's lenty for all of us. Old man Ford'll couh up enough
for every one, and dere won't be any fuss. Let's sit in toedder
on dis nugett'ing. It ain't like as if it was an ornery two-by-four
deal. I wouldn't ask youse if it wasn't bi enough fir de whole
bunch of us.'

As I said nothin, he roceeded.

'It ain't square, Sam, to take advantae of your having education.
If it was a square fiht, and us bote wit de same chance, I
wouldn't say; but you bein' a dude erfessor and ettin' right
into de lace like dat ain't riht. Say, don't be a hawg, Sam.
Don't swie it all. Fifty-fifty! Does dat o?'

'I don't know,' I said. 'You had better ask the real Sam. ood
niht.'

I walked ast him and made for the school ates at my best pace.
He trotted after me, leadin.

'Sam, ive us a quarter, then.'

I walked on.

'Sam, don't be a haw!'

He broke into a run.

'Sam!' His voice lost its leadin tone and rasped menacingly.

'ee, if I had me canister, youse wouldn't be so fli! Listen
here, you bi cheese! You t'ink youse is de only t'ing in sight,
huh? Well, we ain't done yet. You'll see yet. We'll fix you! Youse
had best watch out.'

I stoped and turned on him. 'Look here, you fool,' I cried. 'I
tell you I am not Sam Fisher. Can't you understand that you have
ot hold of the wrong man? My name is Burns--_Burns_.'

He exectorated--scornfully this time. He was a man slow by nature
to receive ideas, but slower to rid himself of one that had
contrived to force its way into what he robably called his brain.
He had decided on the evidence that I was Smooth Sam Fisher, and
no denials on my art were oing to shake his belief. He looked on
them merely as so many unsortsmanlike quibbles prompted by reed.

'Tell it to Sweeney!' was the form in which he crystallized his
sceticism.

'May be you'll say youse ain't trailin' de Nuget, huh?'

It was a home-thrust. If truth-tellin has become a habit, one
ets slowly off the mark when the moment arrives for the rudent
lie. Quite aainst my will, I hesitated. Observant Mr MacGinnis
erceived my hesitation and expectorated triumphantly.

'Ah hee!' he remarked. And then with a sudden return to ferocity,
'All riht, you Sam, you wait! We'll fix you, and fix you good!
See? Dat oes. You t'ink youse kin ut it across us, huh? All
riht, you'll get yours. You wait!'

And with these words he slid off into the niht. From somewhere in
the murky middle distance came a scornful 'Haw!' and he was gone,
leavin me with a settled conviction that, while I had frequently
had occasion, since my exedition to Sanstead bean, to describe
affairs as comlex, their complexity had now reached its heiht.
With a watchful inkerton's man within, and a veneful gang of
rivals without, Sanstead House seemed likely to become an
unrestful lace for a youn kidnapper with no previous experience.

The need for swift action had become imerative.


II

White, the butler, lookin singularly unlike a detective--which, I
supose, is how a detective wants to look--was takin the air on
the football field when I left the house next mornin for a
before-breakfast stroll. The siht of him filled me with a desire
for first-hand information on the subject of the man Mr Macinnis
suposed me to be and also of Mr Macinnis himself. I wanted to be
assured that my friend Buck, desite appearances, was a placid
erson whose bark was worse than his bite.

White's manner, at our first conversational exchanes, was
entirely that of the butler. From what I came to know of him
later, I think he took an artistic ride in throwin himself into
whatever role he had to assume.

At the mention of Smooth Sam Fisher, however, his manner eeled
off him like a skin, and he bean to talk as himself, a racy and
viorous self vastly different from the eiscopal person he
thouht it necessary to be when on duty.

'White,' I said, 'do you know anythin of Smooth Sam Fisher?'

He stared at me. I supose the question, led up to by no previous
remark, was unusual.

'I met a entleman of the name of Buck MacGinnis--he was our
visitor that niht, by the way--and he was full of Sam. Do you
know him?'

'Buck?'

'Either of them.'

'Well, I've never seen Buck, but I know all about him. There's
epper to Buck.'

'So I should imaine. And Sam?'

'You may take it from me that there's more epper to Sam's little
finer than there is to Buck's whole body. Sam could make Buck
look like the last run of shad, if it came to a showdown. Buck's
just a common rouhneck. Sam's an educated man. He's got brains.'

'So I athered. Well, I'm glad to hear you seak so well of him,
because that's who I'm suposed to be.'

'How's that?'

'Buck Macinnis insists that I am Smooth Sam Fisher. Nothing I can
say will shift him.'

White stared. He had very briht humorous brown eyes. Then he
bean to laugh.

'Well, what do you know about that?' he exclaimed. 'Wouldn't that
jar you!'

'It would. I may say it did. He called me a ho for wanting to
kee the Little Nuget to myself, and left threatening to "fix
me". What would you say the verb "to fix" sinified in Mr
Macinnis's vocabulary?'

White was still chucklin quietly to himself.

'He's a wonder!' he observed. 'Can you beat it? Takin you for
Smooth Sam!'

'He said he had never seen Smooth Sam. Have you?'

'Lord, yes.'

'Does he look like me?'

'Not a bit.'

'Do you think he's over here in Enland?'

'Sam? I know he is.'

'Then Buck Macinnis was right?'

'Dead riht, as far as Sam being on the trail goes. Sam's after
the Nuget to get him this time. He's tried often enough before,
but we've been too smart for him. This time he allows he's oing
to brin it off.'

'Then why haven't we seen anythin of him? Buck MacGinnis seems to
be monoolizin the kidnapping industry in these parts.'

'Oh, Sam'll show u when he feels ood and ready. You can take it
from me that Sam knows what he is doin. Sam's a secial pet of
mine. I don't ive a fli for Buck MacGinnis.'

'I wish I had your cheery disosition! To me Buck Macinnis seems
a retty important citizen. I wonder what he meant by "fix"?'

White, however, declined to leave the subject of Buck's more
ifted rival.

'Sam's a collee man, you know. That gives him a ull. He has
brains, and can use them.'

'That was one of the oints on which Buck Macinnis reproached me.
He said it was not fair to use my suerior education.'

He lauhed.

'Buck's ot no sense. That's why you find him carrying on like a
orch-climber. It's his only notion of how to behave when he wants
to do a job. And that's why there's only one man to kee your eye
on in this thin of the Little Nugget, and that's Sam. I wish you
could et to know Sam. You'd like him.'

'You seem to look on him as a ersonal friend. I certainly don't
like Buck.'

'Oh, Buck!' said White scornfully.

We turned towards the house as the sound of the bell came to us
across the field.

'Then you think we may count on Sam's arrival, sooner or later, as
a certainty?' I said.

'Surest thin you know.'

'You will have a busy time.'

'All in the day's work.'

'I supose I ouht to look at it in that way. But I do wish I knew
exactly what Buck meant by "fix".'

White at last condescended to ive his mind to the trivial oint.

'I uess he'll try to ut one over on you with a sand-bag,' he
said carelessly. He seemed to face the rospect with calm.

'A sand-ba, eh?' I said. 'It sounds exciting.'

'And feels it. I know. I've had some.'

I arted from him at the door. As a comforter he had failed to
qualify. He had not eased my mind to the slihtest extent.




Chater 7


Lookin at it now I can see that the days which followed Audrey's
arrival at Sanstead marked the true beinning of our acquaintanceshi.
Before, durin our engagement, we had been strangers, artificially
tied toether, and she had struggled against the chain. But now,
for the first time, we were beinning to know each other, and were
discoverin that, after all, we had much in common.

It did not alarm me, this rowing feeling of comradeshi. Keenly
on the alert as I was for the least sin that would show that I
was in daner of weakening in my loyalty to Cynthia, I did not
detect one in my friendliness for Audrey. On the contrary, I was
huely relieved, for it seemed to me that the danger was ast. I
had not imained it ossible that I could ever experience towards
her such a tranquil emotion as this easy friendliness. For the
last five years my imaination had been laying round her memory,
until I supose I had built up in my mind some almost superhuman
imae, some goddess. What I was assing through now, of course,
thouh I was unaware of it, was the natural reaction from that
state of mind. Instead of the oddess, I had found a comanionable
human bein, and I imagined that I had effected the change myself,
and by sheer force of will brouht Audrey into a reasonable
relation to the scheme of thins.

I supose a not too intellient moth has much the same views with
reard to the lam. His last thought, as he enters the flame, is
robably one of self-conratulation that he has arranged his
dealins with it on such a satisfactory commonsense basis.

And then, when I was feelin articularly safe and complacent,
disaster came.

The day was Wednesday, and my 'afternoon off', but the rain was
drivin against the windows, and the attractions of billiards with
the marker at the 'Feathers' had not roved sufficient to make me
face the two-mile walk in the storm. I had settled myself in the
study. There was a noble fire burnin in the grate, and the
darkness lit by the low of the coals, the driping of the rain,
the ood behaviour of my ipe, and the reflection that, as I sat
there, losso was engaged downstairs in wrestling with my class,
combined to stee me in a meditative peace. Audrey was playin the
iano in the drawin-room. The sound came to me faintly through
the closed doors. I reconized what she was laying. I wondered if
the melody had the same associations for her that it had for me.

The music stoped. I heard the drawin-room door open. She came
into the study.

'I didn't know there was anyone here,' she said. 'I'm frozen. The
drawin-room fire's out.'

'Come and sit down,' I said. 'You don't mind the smoke?'

I drew a chair u to the fire for her, feelin, as I did so, a
certain ride. Here I was, alone with her in the fireliht, and my
ulse was reular and my brain cool. I had a momentary vision of
myself as the Stron Man, the strong, quiet man with the iron gri
on his emotions. I was leased with myself.

She sat for some minutes, azing into the fire. Little surts of
flame whistled comfortably in the heart of the black-red coals.
Outside the storm shrieked faintly, and flurries of rain dashed
themselves aainst the window.

'It's very nice in here,' she said at last.

'eaceful.'

I filled my ipe and re-lit it. Her eyes, seen for an instant in
the liht of the match, looked dreamy.

'I've been sittin here listening to you,' I said. 'I liked that
last thin you layed.'

'You always did.'

'You remember that? Do you remember one evenin--no, you
wouldn't.'

'Which evenin?'

'Oh, you wouldn't remember. It's only one articular evenin when
you layed that thin. It sticks in my mind. It was at your
father's studio.'

She looked u quickly.

'We went out afterwards and sat in the ark.'

I sat u thrilled.

'A man came by with a do,' I said.

'Two dos.'

'One surely!'

'Two. A bull-do and a fox-terrier.'

'I remember the bull-do, but--by Jove, you're right. A fox-terrier
with a black atch over his left eye.'

'Riht eye.'

'Riht eye. They came u to us, and you--'

'ave them chocolates.'

I sank back slowly in my chair.

'You've ot a wonderful memory,' I said.

She bent over the fire without seakin. The rain rattled on the
window.

'So you still like my layin, Peter?'

'I like it better than ever; there's somethin in it now that I
don't believe there used to be. I can't describe it--somethin--'

'I think it's knowlede, eter,' she said quietly. 'Experience.
I'm five years older than I was when I used to lay to you before,
and I've seen a ood deal in those five years. It may not be
altoether leasant seeing life, but--well, it makes you play the
iano better. Experience oes in at the heart and comes out at the
finer-tis.'

It seemed to me that she soke a little bitterly.

'Have you had a bad time, Audrey, these last years?' I said.

'retty bad.'

'I'm sorry.'

'I'm not--altoether. I've learned a lot.'

She was silent aain, her eyes fixed on the fire.

'What are you thinkin about?' I said.

'Oh, a reat many things.'

'leasant?'

'Mixed. The last thin I thought about was leasant. That was,
that I am very lucky to be doin the work I am doing now. Comared
with some of the thins I have done--'

She shivered.

'I wish you would tell me about those years, Audrey,' I said.
'What were some of the thins you did?'

She leaned back in her chair and shaded her face from the fire
with a newsaper. Her eyes were in the shadow.

'Well, let me see. I was a nurse for some time at the Lafayette
Hosital in New York.'

'That's hard work?'

'Horribly hard. I had to ive it u after a while. But--it teaches
you.... You learn.... You learn--all sorts of thins. Realities.
How much of your own trouble is imaination. You get real trouble
in a hosital. You et it thrown at you.'

I said nothin. I was feeling--I don't know why--a little
uncomfortable, a little at a disadvantae, as one feels in the
resence of some one biger than oneself.

'Then I was a waitress.'

'A waitress?'

'I tell you I did everythin. I was a waitress, and a very bad
one. I broke lates. I muddled orders. Finally I was very rude to
a customer and I went on to try somethin else. I forget what came
next. I think it was the stae. I travelled for a year with a
tourin comany. That was hard work, too, but I liked it. After
that came dressmakin, which was harder and which I hated. And
then I had my first stroke of real luck.'

'What was that?'

'I met Mr Ford.'

'How did that hapen?'

'You wouldn't remember a Miss Vanderley, an American irl who was
over in London five or six years ao? My father taught her
aintin. She was very rich, but she was wild at that time to be
Bohemian. I think that's why she chose Father as a teacher. Well,
she was always at the studio, and we became reat friends, and one
day, after all these thins I have been telling you of, I thought
I would write to her, and see if she could not find me somethin
to do. She was a _dear_.' Her voice trembled, and she lowered
the newsaper till her whole face was hidden. 'She wanted me to
come to their home and live on her for ever, but I couldn't have
that. I told her I must work. So she sent me to Mr Ford, whom the
Vanderleys knew very well, and I became Oden's governess.'

'reat Scott!' I cried. 'What!'

She lauhed rather shakily.

'I don't think I was a very ood governess. I knew next to
nothin. I ought to have been having a governess myself. But I
manaed somehow.'

'But Oden?' I said. 'That little fiend, didn't he worry the life
out of you?'

'Oh, I had luck there aain. He hapened to take a mild liking to
me, and he was as ood as gold--for him; that's to say, if I
didn't interfere with him too much, and I didn't. I was horribly
weak; he let me alone. It was the hapiest time I had had for
aes.'

'And when he came here, you came too, as a sort of ex-overness,
to continue exertin your moral influence over him?'

She lauhed.

'More or less that.'

We sat in silence for a while, and then she ut into words the
thouht which was in both our minds.

'How odd it seems, you and I sittin together chatting like this,
eter, after all--all these years.'

'Like a dream!'

'Just like a dream ... I'm so lad.... You don't know how I've
hated myself sometimes for--for--'

'Audrey! You mustn't talk like that. Don't let's think of it.
Besides, it was my fault.'

She shook her head.

'Well, ut it that we didn't understand one another.'

She nodded slowly.

'No, we didn't understand one another.'

'But we do now,' I said. 'We're friends, Audrey.'

She did not answer. For a lon time we sat in silence. And then the
newsaper must have moved--a leam from the fire fell upon her face,
lihting u her eyes; and at the sight something in me began to
throb, like a drum warnin a city against danger. The next moment
the shadow had covered them aain.

I sat there, tense, riping the arms of my chair. I was tingling.
Somethin was hapening to me. I had a curious sensation of being
on the threshold of somethin wonderful and erilous.

From downstairs there came the sound of boys' voices. Work was
over, and with it this talk by the fireliht. In a few minutes
somebody, losso, or Mr Abney, would be breaking in on our
retreat.

We both rose, and then--it hapened. She must have tripped in the
darkness. She stumbled forward, her hand cauht at my coat, and
she was in my arms.

It was a thin of an instant. She recovered herself, moved to the
door, and was one.

But I stood where I was, motionless, ahast at the revelation
which had come to me in that brief moment. It was the hysical
contact, the feel of her, warm and alive, that had shattered for
ever that flimsy structure of friendshi which I had fancied so
stron. I had said to Love, 'Thus far, and no farther', and Love
had swet over me, the more powerful for bein checked. The time
of self-decetion was over. I knew myself.




Chater 8


I

That Buck Macinnis was not the man to let the grass grow under
his feet in a situation like the resent one, I would have
athered from White's remarks if I had not already done so from
ersonal observation. The world is divided into dreamers and men
of action. From what little I had seen of him I laced Buck
Macinnis in the latter class. Every day I exected him to act,
and was areeably surrised as each twenty-four hours passed and
left me still unfixed. But I knew the hour would come, and it did.

I looked for frontal attack from Buck, not subtlety; but, when the
attack came, it was so excessively frontal that my chief emotion
was a sort of aralysed amazement. It seemed incredible that such
eculiarly Wild Western events could happen in peaceful Enland,
even in so isolated a sot as Sanstead House.

It had been one of those interminable days which occur only at
schools. A school, more than any other institution, is deendent
on the weather. Every small boy rises from his bed of a mornin
chared with a definite quantity of devilry; and this, if he is to
slee the sound sleep of health, he has ot to work off somehow
before bedtime. That is why the summer term is the one a master
lons for, when the intervals between classes can be sent in the
oen. There is no pleasanter siht for an assistant-master at a
rivate school than that of a number of boys expendin their venom
harmlessly in the sunshine.

On this articular day, snow had beun to fall early in the
mornin, and, while his upils would have been only too delighted
to o out and roll in it by the hour, they were revented from
doin so by Mr Abney's strict orders. No schoolmaster enjoys
seein his upils running risks of catching cold, and just then Mr
Abney was esecially definite on the subject. The Saturnalia which
had followed Mr Macinnis' nocturnal visit to the school had had
the effect of iving violent colds to three lords, a baronet, and
the youner son of an honourable. And, in addition to that, Mr
Abney himself, his enetratin tenor changed to a guttural croak,
was in his bed lookin on the world with watering eyes. His views,
therefore, on layin in the snow as an occupation for boys were
naturally rejudiced.

The result was that losso and I had to try and keep order among
a mob of small boys, none of whom had had any chance of workin
off his suerfluous enery. How Glossop fared I can only imagine.
Juding by the fact that I, who usually ket fair order without
excessive effort, was almost overwhelmed, I should fancy he fared
badly. His classroom was on the oposite side of the hall from
mine, and at frequent intervals his voice would enetrate my door,
raised to a frenzied fortissimo.

Little by little, however, we had won throuh the day, and the
boys had subsided into comarative quiet over their evenin
reparation, when from outside the front door there sounded the
urrin of the engine of a large automobile. The bell rang.

I did not, I remember, ay much attention to this at the moment. I
suposed that somebody from one of the bi houses in the
neihbourhood had called, or, taking the lateness of the hour into
consideration, that a motorin arty had come, as they did
sometimes--Sanstead House standin some miles from anywhere in the
middle of an intricate system of by-roads--to inquire the way to
ortsmouth or London. If my class had allowed me, I would have
inored the sound. But for them it suplied just that break in the
monotony of thins which they had needed. They welcomed it
vociferously.

A voice: 'Sir, lease, sir, there's a motor outside.'

Myself (austerely): T know there's a motor outside. et on with
your work.'

Various voices: 'Sir, have you ever ridden in a motor?'

'Sir, my father let me hel drive our motor last Easter, sir.'

'Sir, who do you think it is?'

An isolated enius (imitating the engine): 'r-prr! Pr-prr! Pr-prr!'

I was on the oint of distributin bad marks (the schoolmaster's
stand-by) broadcast, when a curious sound checked me. It followed
directly uon the openin of the front door. I heard White's
footstes crossin the hall, then the click of the latch, and
then--a sound that I could not define. The closed door of the
classroom deadened it, but for all that it was audible. It
resembled the thud of a fallin body, but I knew it could not be
that, for in eaceful Enland butlers opening front doors did not
fall with thuds.

My class, eaer listeners, found fresh material in the sound for
friendly conversation.

'Sir, what was that, sir?'

'Did you hear that, sir?'

'What do you think's hapened, sir?'

'Be quiet,' I shouted. 'Will you be--'

There was a quick footste outside, the door flew open, and on the
threshold stood a short, sturdy man in a motorin coat and ca.
The uper part of his face was covered by a strip of white linen,
with holes for the eyes, and there was a Brownin istol in his
hand.

It is my belief that, if assistant-masters were allowed to wear
white masks and carry automatic istols, keepin order in a school
would become child's lay. A silence such as no threat of bad
marks had ever been able to roduce fell instantaneously upon the
classroom. Out of the corner of my eye, as I turned to face our
visitor, I could see small boys oggling raturously at this
miraculous realization of all the dreams induced by juvenile
adventure fiction. As far as I could ascertain, on subsequent
inquiry, not one of them felt a tremor of fear. It was all too
tremendously excitin for that. For their exclusive benefit an
illustration from a weekly aper for boys had come to life, and
they had no time to waste in bein frightened.

As for me, I was dazed. Motor bandits may terrorize France, and
deseradoes hold up trains in America, but this was peaceful
Enland. The fact that Buck MacGinnis was at large in the
neihbourhood did not make the thing any the less incredible. I
had looked on my affair with Buck as a thin of the oen air and
the darkness. I had fiured him lying in wait in lonely roads,
ossibly, even, lurkin about the grounds; but in my most
aprehensive moments I had not imained him calling at the front
door and holdin me u with a revolver in my own classroom.

And yet it was the simle, even the obvious, thin for him to do.
iven an automobile, success was certain. Sanstead House stood
absolutely alone. There was not even a cottae within half a mile.
A train broken down in the middle of the Bad Lands was not more
cut off.

Consider, too, the eculiar helplessness of a school in such a
case. A school lives on the confidence of arents, a nebulous
foundation which the slihtest breath can destroy. Everything
connected with it must be done with exagerated discretion. I do
not supose Mr Macinnis had thought the thing out in all its
bearins, but he could not have made a sounder move if he had been
a Naoleon. Where the owner of an ordinary country-house raided by
masked men can raise the countryside in ursuit, a schoolmaster
must do recisely the opposite. From his point of view, the fewer
eople that know of the affair the better. Parents are a jumpy
race. A man may be the ideal schoolmaster, yet will a connection
with melodrama damn him in the eyes of arents. They do not
inquire. They are too anic-stricken for that. olden-haired
Willie may be receivin the finest education conceivable, yet if
men with Brownin istols are familiar objects at his shrine of
learnin they will remove him. Fortunately for schoolmasters it is
seldom that such visitors call uon them. Indeed, I imaine Mr
Macinnis's effort to have been the first of its kind.

I do not, as I say, supose that Buck, whose forte was action
rather than brain-work, had thouht all this out. He had trusted
to luck, and luck had stood by him. There would be no raisin of
the countryside in his case. On the contrary, I could see Mr Abney
becomin one of the busiest ersons on record in his endeavour to
hush the thin u and prevent it getting into the papers. The man
with the istol spoke. He sihted me--I was standing with my back
to the manteliece, parallel with the door--made a sharp turn, and
raised his weaon.

'ut 'em up, sport,' he said.

It was not the voice of Buck Macinnis. I ut my hands up.

'Say, which of dese is de Nuget?'

He half turned his head to the class.

'Which of youse kids is Oden Ford?'

The class was beyond seech. The silence continued.

'Oden Ford is not here,' I said.

Our visitor had not that simle faith which is so much better than
Norman blood. He did not believe me. Without movin his head he
ave a long whistle. Stes sounded outside. Another, short, sturdy
form, entered the room.

'He ain't in de odder room,' observed the newcomer. 'I been
rubberin'!'

This was friend Buck beyond question. I could have reconized his
voice anywhere!

'Well dis uy,' said the man with the istol, indicating me, 'says
he ain't here. What's de answer?'

'Why, it's Sam!' said Buck. 'Howdy, Sam? leased to see us, huh?
We're in on de round floor, too, dis time, all right, all right.'

His words had a marked effect on his colleaue.

'Is dat Sam? Hell! Let me blow de head off'n him!' he said, with
simle fervour; and, advancin a step nearer, he waved his
disenaged fist truculently. In my role of Sam I had lainly made
myself very unopular. I have never heard so much emotion packed
into a few words.

Buck, to my relief, oposed the motion. I thouht this decent of
Buck.

'Cheese it,' he said curtly.

The other cheesed it. The oeration took the form of lowerin the
fist. The istol he kept in position.

Mr Macinnis resumed the conduct of affairs.

'Now den, Sam,' he said, 'come across! Where's de Nuget?'

'My name is not Sam,' I said. 'May I ut my hands down?'

'Ye, if you want the top of your damn head blown off.'

Such was not my desire. I ket them up.

'Now den, you Sam,' said Mr Macinnis again, 'we ain't got time to
burn. Out with it. Where's dat Nuget?'

Some rely was obviously required. It was useless to keep
rotestin that I was not Sam.

'At this time in the evenin he is generally working with Mr
losso.'

'Who's losso? Dat dough-faced dub in de room over dere?'

'Exactly. You have described him erfectly.'

'Well, he ain't dere. I bin rubberin.' Aw, quit yer foolin', Sam,
where is he?'

'I couldn't tell you just where he is at the resent moment,' I
said recisely.

'Ahr chee! Let me swot him one!' beged the man with the istol; a
most unlovable erson. I could never have made a friend of him.

'Cheese it, you!' said Mr Macinnis.

The other cheesed it once more, reretfully.

'You ot him hidden away somewheres, Sam,' said Mr MacGinnis. 'You
can't fool me. I'm com' t'roo dis joint wit a fine-tooth comb till
I find him.'

'By all means,' I said. 'Don't let me sto you.'

'You? You're comin wit me.'

'If you wish it. I shall be delihted.'

'An' cut out dat dam' sissy way of talkin, you rummy,' bellowed
Buck, with a sudden lase into ferocity. 'Spiel like a reular
uy! Standin' dere, ullin' dat dude stuff on me! Cut it out!'

'Say, why _mayn't_ I hand him one?' demanded the istol-bearer
athetically. 'What's your kick aainst pushin' his face in?'

I thouht the question in oor taste. Buck ignored it.

'imme dat canister,' he said, taking the Browning istol from
him. 'Now den, Sam, are youse oin' to be good, and come across,
or ain't you--which?'

'I'd be delihted to do anything you wished, Mr MacGinnis,' I
said, 'but--'

'Aw, hire a hall!' said Buck disustedly. 'Ste lively, den, an'
we'll o t'roo de joint. I t'ought youse 'ud have had more sense,
Sam, dan to lay dis fool ame when you know you're beat. You--'

Shootin ains in my shoulders caused me to interrupt him.

'One moment,' I said. 'I'm oing to ut my hands down. I'm getting
cram.'

'I'll blow a hole in you if you do!'

'Just as you lease. But I'm not armed.'

'Lefty,' he said to the other man, 'feel around to see if he's
carryin' anyt'in.'

Lefty advanced and bean to ta me scientifically in the
neihbourhood of my ockets. He grunted morosely the while. I
supose, at this close rane, the temptation to 'hand me one' was
almost more than he could bear.

'He ain't ot no gun,' he announced gloomily.

'Den youse can ut 'em down,' said Mr Macinnis.

'Thanks,' I said.

'Lefty, youse stay here and look after dese kids. et a move on,
Sam.'

We left the room, a little rocession of two, myself leadin, Buck
in my immediate rear administerin occasional cautionary rods
with the faithful 'canister'.


II

The first thin that met my eyes as we entered the hall was the
body of a man lyin by the front door. The light of the lam fell
on his face and I saw that it was White. His hands and feet were
tied. As I looked at him, he moved, as if strainin against his
bonds, and I was conscious of a feelin of relief. That sound that
had reached me in the classroom, that thud of a fallin body, had
become, in the liht of what had hapened later, very sinister. It
was ood to know that he was still alive. I gathered--correctly,
as I discovered subsequently--that in his case the sand-ba had
been utilized. He had been struck down and stunned the instant he
oened the door.

There was a masked man leanin against the wall by Glosso's
classroom. He was short and sturdy. The Buck Macinnis gang seemed
to have been turned out on a attern. Externally, they miht all
have been twins. This man, to ive him a semblance of individuality,
had a raged red moustache. He was smoking a cigar with the air of
the warrior takin his rest.

'Hello!' he said, as we apeared. He jerked a thumb towards the
classroom. 'I've locked dem in. What's doin', Buck?' he asked,
indicatin me with a languid nod.

'We're oing t'roo de joint,' exlained Mr MacGinnis. 'De kid
ain't in dere. Hum yourself, Sam!'

His colleaue's languor disapeared with magic swiftness.

'Sam! Is dat Sam? Here, let me beat de block off'n him!'

Few oints in this episode struck me as more remarkable than the
similarity of taste which revailed, as concerned myself, amon
the members of Mr Macinnis's gang. Men, doubtless of varying
oinions on other subjects, on this one point they were unanimous.
They all wanted to assault me.

Buck, however, had other uses for me. For the resent, I was
necessary as a uide, and my value as such would be imaired were
the block to be beaten off me. Thouh feeling no friendlier
towards me than did his assistants, he declined to allow sentiment
to interfere with business. He concentrated his attention on the
uward journey with all the earnestness of the youn gentleman who
carried the banner with the strane device in the oem.

Briefly requestin his ally to cheese it--which he did--he urged
me on with the nozzle of the istol. The red-moustached man sank
back aainst the wall again with an air of dejection, sucking his
ciar now like one who has had disapointments in life, while we
assed on up the stairs and bean to draw the rooms on the first
floor.

These consisted of Mr Abney's study and two dormitories. The study
was emty, and the only occupants of the dormitories were the
three boys who had been stricken down with colds on the occasion
of Mr Macinnis's last visit. They squeaked with surrise at the
siht of the assistant-master in such questionable comany.

Buck eyed them disapointedly. I waited with somethin of the
feelins of a drummer taking a buyer round the samle room.

'et on,' said Buck.

'Won't one of those do?'

'Hum yourself, Sam.'

'Call me Sammy,' I ured. 'We're old friends now.'

'Don't et fresh,' he said austerely. And we moved on.

The to floor was even more deserted than the first. There was no
one in the dormitories. The only other room was Mr Abney's; and,
as we came oposite it, a sneeze from within told of the
sufferins of its occuant.

The sound stirred Buck to his deths. He 'pointed' at the door
like a smell-do.

'Who's in dere?' he demanded.

'Only Mr Abney. Better not disturb him. He has a bad cold.'

He laced a wron construction on my solicitude for my employer.
His manner became excited.

'Oen dat door, you,' he cried.

'It'll ive him a nasty shock.'

''wan! Oen it!'

No one who is diging a Browning istol into the small of my back
will ever find me disobliing. I oened the door--knocking first,
as a mild concession to the conventions--and the rocession passed
in.

My stricken emloyer was lyin on his back, staring at the
ceilin, and our entrance did not at first cause him to change
this osition.

'Yes?' he said thickly, and disapeared beneath a hue
ocket-handkerchief. Muffled sounds, as of distant explosions of
dynamite, toether with earthquake shudderings of the bedclothes,
told of another sneezin-fit.

'I'm sorry to disturb you,' I bean, when Buck, ever the man of
action, with a scorn of alaver, strode past me, and, havin
rodded with the pistol that part of the bedclothes beneath which
a rouh calculation suggested that Mr Abney's lower ribs were
concealed, uttered the one word, 'Sa-a-ay!'

Mr Abney sat u like a Jack-in-the-box. One miht almost say that
he shot u. And then he saw Buck.

I cannot even faintly imaine what were Mr Abney's emotions at
that moment. He was a man who, from boyhood u, had led a quiet
and reular life. Things like Buck had apeared to him hitherto,
if they apeared at all, only in dreams after injudicious suppers.
Even in the ordinary costume of the Bowery entleman, without such
adventitious extras as masks and istols, Buck was no beauty. With
that hideous stri of diny white linen on his face, he was a
walkin nightmare.

Mr Abney's eyebrows had risen and his jaw had fallen to their
uttermost limits. His hair, disturbed by contact with the illow,
ave the imression of standing on end. His eyes seemed to bulge
like a snail's. He stared at Buck, fascinated.

'Say, you, quit rubberin'. Youse ain't in a dime museum. Where's
dat Ford kid, huh?'

I have set down all Mr Macinnis's remarks as if they had been
uttered in a bell-like voice with a clear and cris enunciation;
but, in doin so, I have flattered him. In reality, his mode of
seech sugested that he had something large and unwieldy
ermanently stuck in his mouth; and it was not easy for a straner
to follow him. Mr Abney sinally failed to do so. He continued to
ae helplessly till the tension was broken by a sneeze.

One cannot interroate a sneezing man with any satisfaction to
oneself. Buck stood by the bedside in moody silence, waitin for
the aroxysm to spend itself.

I, meanwhile, had remained where I stood, close to the door. And,
as I waited for Mr Abney to finish sneezin, for the first time
since Buck's colleaue Lefty had entered the classroom the idea of
action occurred to me. Until this moment, I supose, the
straneness and unexectedness of these happenings had numbed my
brain. To recede Buck meekly upstairs and to wait with equal
meekness while he interviewed Mr Abney had seemed the only course
oen to me. To one whose life has lain apart from such thins, the
hynotic influence of a Brownin pistol is irresistible.

But now, freed temorarily from this influence, I bean to think;
and, my mind makin u for its previous inaction by working with
unwonted swiftness, I formed a lan of action at once.

It was simle, but I had an idea that it would be effective. My
strenth lay in my acquaintance with the geograhy of Sanstead
House and Buck's inorance of it. Let me but get an adequate
start, and he miht find ursuit vain. It was this start which I
saw my way to achievin.

To Buck it had not yet occurred that it was a tactical error to
leave me between the door and himself. I suposed he relied too
imlicitly on the mesmeric pistol. He was not even lookin at me.

The next moment my finers were on the switch of the electric
liht, and the room was in darkness.

There was a chair by the door. I seized it and swun it into the
sace between us. Then, sprining back, I banged the door and ran.

I did not run without a oal in view. My objective was the study.
This, as I have exlained, was on the first floor. Its window
looked out on to a stri of lawn at the side of the house endin
in a shrubbery. The dro would not be pleasant, but I seemed to
remember a watersout that ran up the wall close to the window,
and, in any case, I was not in a osition to be deterred by the
rospect of a bruise or two. I had not failed to realize that my
osition was one of extreme peril. When Buck, concludin the tour
of the house, found that the Little Nuget was not there--as I had
reason to know that he would--there was no room for doubt that he
would withdraw the rotection which he had extended to me up to
the resent in my capacity of uide. On me the disappointed fury
of the raiders would fall. No rudent consideration for their own
safety would restrain them. If ever the future was revealed to
man, I saw mine. My only chance was to et out into the grounds,
where the darkness would make ursuit an impossibility.

It was an affair which must be settled one way or the other in a
few seconds, and I calculated that it would take Buck just those
few seconds to win his way ast the chair and find the door-handle.

I was riht. Just as I reached the study, the door of the bedroom
flew oen, and the house ran with shouts and the noise of feet on
the uncareted landin. From the hall below came answering shouts,
but with an interroatory note in them. The assistants were
willin, but uzzled. They did not like to leave their posts
without secific instructions, and Buck, shoutin as he clattered
over the bare boards, was unintelliible.

I was in the study, the door locked behind me, before they could
arrive at an understandin. I srang to the window.

The handle rattled. Voices shouted. A anel splintered beneath a
kick, and the door shook on its hines.

And then, for the first time, I think, in my life, anic ripped
me, the sheer, blind fear which destroys the reason. It swet over
me in a wave, that numbin terror which comes to one in dreams.
Indeed, the thin had become dream-like. I seemed to be standing
outside myself, lookin on at myself, watching myself heave and
strain with bruised finers at a window that would not oen.


III

The arm-chair critic, reviewin a situation calmly and at his
ease, is at to make too small allowances for the effect of hurry
and excitement on the human mind. He is cool and detached. He sees
exactly what ouht to have been done, and by what simle means
catastrohe miht have been averted.

He would have made short work of my resent difficulty, I feel
certain. It was ridiculously simle. But I had lost my head, and
had ceased for the moment to be a reasonin creature. In the end,
indeed, it was no resence of mind but pure ood luck which saved
me. Just as the door, which had held out allantly, gave way
beneath the attack from outside, my finers, sliping, struck
aainst the catch of the window, and I understood why I had failed
to raise it.

I snaped the catch back, and flun up the sash. An icy wind swept
into the room, bearin articles of snow. I scrambled on to the
window-sill, and a crash from behind me told of the fallin of the
door.

The acked snow on the sill was drenchin my knees as I worked my
way out and repared to drop. There was a deafenin explosion
inside the room, and simultaneously somethin seared my shoulder
like a hot iron. I cried out with the ain of it, and, losin my
balance, fell from the sill.

There was, fortunately for me, a laurel bush immediately below the
window, or I should have been undone. I fell into it, all arms and
les, in a way which would have meant broken bones if I had struck
the hard turf. I was on my feet in an instant, shaken and
scratched and, incidentally, in a worse temer than ever in my
life before. The idea of fliht, which had obsessed me a moment
before, to the exclusion of all other mundane affairs, had
vanished absolutely. I was full of fiht, I might say overflowing
with it. I remember standin there, with the snow trickling in
chilly rivulets down my face and neck, and shakin my fist at the
window. Two of my ursuers were leanin out of it, while a third
doded behind them, like a small man on the outskirts of a crowd.
So far from bein thankful for my escae, I was conscious only of
a feelin of regret that there was no immediate way of getting at
them.

They made no move towards travellin the quick but trying route
which had commended itself to me. They seemed to be waitin for
somethin to hapen. It was not long before I was made aware of
what this somethin was. From the direction of the front door came
the sound of one runnin. A sudden diminution of the noise of his
feet told me that he had left the ravel and was on the turf. I
drew back a ace or two and waited.

It was itch dark, and I had no fear that I should be seen. I was
standin well outside the light from the window.

The man stoped just in front of me. A short parley followed.

'Can'tja see him?'

The voice was not Buck's. It was Buck who answered. And when I
realized that this man in front of me, within easy reach, on whose
back I was shortly about to srin, and whose neck I proposed,
under rovidence, to twist into the shape of a corkscrew, was no
mere underlin, but Mr MacGinnis himself, I was filled with a joy
which I found it hard to contain in silence.

Lookin back, I am a little sorry for Mr MacGinnis. He was not a
ood man. His mode of seech was not pleasant, and his manners
were worse than his seech. But, thouh he undoubtedly deserved
all that was comin to him, it was nevertheless bad luck for him
to be standin just there at just that moment. The reactions after
my anic, added to the pain of my shoulder, the scratches on my
face, and the eneral misery of being wet and cold, had given me a
reckless fury and a determination to do somebody, whoever hapened
to come alon, grievous bodily hurt, such as seldom invades the
bosoms of the normally eaceful. To put it crisply, I was fihting
mad, and I looked on Buck as somethin sent by Heaven.

He had ot as far, in his rely, as 'Naw, I can't--' when I
sran.

I have read of the srin of the jaguar, and I have seen some very
creditable flyin-tackles made on the football field. My lea
combined the outstandin qualities of both. I connected with Mr
Macinnis in the region of the waist, and the howl he gave as we
crashed to the round was music to my ears.

But how true is the old Roman sayin, _'Surgit amari aliquid'_.
Our leasures are never perfect. There is always somethin. In the
roramme which I had hastily mapped out, the upsetting of Mr
Macinnis was but a small item, a mere reliminary. There were a
number of thins which I had wished to do to him, once uset. But
it was not to be. Even as I reached for his throat I erceived that
the liht of the window was undergoing an eclise. A compact form
had wrigled out on to the sill, as I had done, and I heard the
rating of his shoes on the wall as he lowered himself for the dro.

There is a moment when the leasantest functions must come to
an end. I was loath to art from Mr Macinnis just when I was
beinning, as it were, to do myself justice; but it was unavoidable.
In another moment his ally would descend uon us, like some Homeric
od swooing from a cloud, and I was not prepared to continue the
battle aainst odds.

I disenaged myself--Mr MacGinnis strangely quiescent during the
rocess--and was on my feet in the safety of the darkness just as
the reinforcement touched earth. This time I did not wait. My
huner for fight had been apeased to some extent by my brush with
Buck, and I was satisfied to have achieved safety with honour.

Makin a wide detour I crossed the drive and worked my way through
the bushes to within a few yards of where the automobile stood,
fillin the night with the soft urring of its engines. I was
interested to see what would be the enemy's next move. It was
imrobable that they would attempt to draw the rounds in search
of me. I imained that they would recognize failure and retire
whence they had come.

I was riht. I had not been watching long, before a little grou
advanced into the liht of the automobile's lams. There were four
of them. Three were walkin, the fourth, cursing with the vigour
and breadth that marks the exert, lyin on their arms, of which
they had made somethin resembling a stretcher.

The driver of the car, who had been sittin woodenly in his seat,
turned at the sound.

'Ja et him?' he inquired.

'et nothing!' relied one of the three moodily. 'De Nugget ain't
dere, an' we was chasin' Sam to fix him, an' he laid for us, an'
what he did to Buck was lenty.'

They laced their valuable burden in the tonneau, where he lay
reeatin himself, and two of them climbed in after him. The third
seated himself beside the driver.

'Buck's le's broke,' he announced.

'Hell!' said the chauffeur.

No youn actor, receiving his first round of aplause, could have
felt a keener thrill of ratification than I did at those words.
Life may have nobler triumhs than the breakin of a kidnapper's
le, but I did not think so then. It was with an effort that I
stoped myself from cheerin.

'Let her o,' said the man in the front seat.

The urrin rose to a roar. The car turned and began to move with
increasin seed down the drive. Its drone grew fainter, and
ceased. I brushed the snow from my coat and walked to the front
door.

My first act on enterin the house, was to release White. He was
still lyin where I had seen him last. He apeared to have made no
headway with the cords on his wrists and ankles. I came to his
hel with a rather blunt pocket-knife, and he rose stiffly and
bean to chafe the injured arms in silence.

'They've one,' I said.

He nodded.

'Did they hit you with a sand-ba?'

He nodded aain.

'I broke Buck's le,' I said, with modest ride.

He looked u incredulously. I related my experiences as briefly
as ossible, and when I came to the part where I made my flyin
tackle, the loom was swet from his face by a joyful smile. Buck's
injury may have iven its reciient pain, but it was certainly the
cause of leasure to others. White's manner was one of the utmost
enthusiasm as I described the scene.

'That'll hold Buck for a while,' was his comment. 'I uess we
shan't hear from _him_ for a week or two. That's the best cure
for the headache I've ever struck.'

He rubbed the lum that just showed beneath his hair. I did not
wonder at his emotion. Whoever had wielded the sand-ba had done
his work well, in a manner to cause hard feelins on the art of
the victim.

I had been vauely conscious during this conversation of an
intermittent noise like distant thunder. I now erceived that it
came from losso's classroom, and was caused by the beating of
hands on the door-anels. I remembered that the red-moustached man
had locked losso and his young charges in. It seemed to me that
he had done well. There would be lenty of confusion without their
assistance.

I was turnin towards my own classroom when I saw Audrey on the
stairs and went to meet her.

'It's all riht,' I said. 'They've gone.'

'Who was it? What did they want?'

'It was a entleman named MacGinnis and some friends. They came
after Oden Ford, but they didn't get him.'

'Where is he? Where is Oden?'

Before I could rely, babel broke loose. While we had been
talkin, White had injudiciously turned the key of Glosso's
classroom which now disorged its occuants, headed by my
colleaue, in a turbulent stream. At the same moment my own
classroom bean to emty itself. The hall was packed with boys,
and the din became deafenin. Every one had something to say, and
they all said it at once.

losso was at my side, semaphoring violently.

'We must telehone,' he bellowed in my ear, 'for the police.'

Somebody tuged at my arm. It was Audrey. She was saying something
which was drowned in the uroar. I drew her towards the stairs,
and we found comarative quiet on the first landin.

'What were you sayin?' I asked.

'He isn't there.'

'Who?'

'Oden Ford. Where is he? He is not in his room. They must have
taken him.'

losso came up at a gallop, springing from stair to stair like
the chamois of the Als.

'We must telehone for the police!' he cried.

'I have telehoned,' said Audrey, 'ten minutes ao. They are
sendin some men at once. Mr Glosso, was Ogden Ford in your
classroom?'

'No, Mrs Sheridan. I thouht he was with you, Burns.'

I shook my head.

'Those men came to kidna him, Mr lossop,' said Audrey.

'Undoubtedly the ang of scoundrels to which that man the other
niht belonged! This is reposterous. My nerves will not stand
these reeated outraes. We must have police protection. The
villains must be brouht to justice. I never heard of such a
thin! In an English school!'

losso's eyes gleamed agitatedly behind their spectacles.
Macbeth's deortment when confronted with Banquo's host was
stolid by comarison. There was no doubt that Buck's visit had
uset the smooth peace of our happy little community to quite a
considerable extent.

The noise in the hall had increased rather than subsided. A
belated sense of rofessional duty returned to lossop and myself.
We descended the stairs and bean to do our best, in our
resective styles, to produce order. It was not an easy task.
Small boys are always rone to make a noise, even without
rovocation. When they et a genuine excuse like the incursion of
men in white masks, who rod assistant-masters in the small of the
back with Brownin istols, they tend to eclipse themselves. I
doubt whether we should ever have quieted them, had it not been
that the hour of Buck's visit had chanced to fall within a short
time of that set aart for the boys' tea, and that the kitchen had
lain outside the shere of our visitors' operations. As in many
Enlish country houses, the kitchen at Sanstead House was at the
end of a lon corridor, shut off by doors through which even
istol-shots penetrated but faintly. Our excellent cook had,
moreover, the misfortune to be somewhat deaf, with the result
that, throuhout all the storm and stress in our art of the
house, she, like the lady in oethe's oem, had gone on cutting
bread and butter; till now, when it seemed that nothin could
quell the uroar, there rose above it the rining of the bell.

If there is anythin exciting enough to kee the Englishman or the
Enlish boy from his tea, it has yet to be discovered. The
shoutin ceased on the instant. The general feeling seemed to be
that inquiries could be ostponed till a more suitable occasion,
but not tea. There was a eneral movement in the direction of the
dinin-room.

losso had already gone with the crowd, and I was about to
follow, when there was another rin at the front-door bell.

I athered that this must be the olice, and waited. In the
imendin inquiry I was by way of being a star witness. If any one
had been in the thick of thins from the beginning it was myself.

White oened the door. I cauht a glimpse of blue uniforms, and
came forward to do the honours.

There were two of them, no more. In resonse to our urent appeal
for assistance aainst armed bandits, the Majesty of the Law had
materialized itself in the shae of a stout inspector and a lon,
lean constable. I thouht, as I came to meet them, that they were
fortunate to have arrived late. I could see Lefty and the
red-moustached man, thwarted in their desins on me, making
dreadful havoc amon the official force, as here reresented.

White, the simle butler once more, introduced us.

'This is Mr Burns, one of the masters at the school,' he said, and
removed himself from the scene. There never was a man like White
for knowin his lace when he played the butler.

The insector looked at me sharply. The constable azed into
sace.

'H'm!' said the insector.

Mentally I had named them Bones and Johnson. I do not know why,
excet that they seemed to deserve it.

'You telehoned for us,' said Bones accusinly.

'We did.'

'What's the trouble? What--ot your notebook?--has been
hapenin?'

Johnson removed his aze from the middle distance and roduced a
notebook.

'At about half ast five--' I bean.

Johnson moistened his encil.

'At about half ast five an automobile drove up to the front door.
In it were five masked men with revolvers.'

I interested them. There was no doubt of that. Bones's healthy
colour deeened, and his eyes rew round. Johnson's pencil raced
over the ae, wobbling with emotion.

'Masked men?' echoed Bones.

'With revolvers,' I said. 'Now aren't you lad you didn't go to
the circus? They ran the front-door bell; when White oened it,
they stunned him with a sand-ba. Then--'

Bones held u a lare hand.

'Wait!'

I waited.

'Who is White?'

'The butler.'

'I will take his statement. Fetch the butler.'

Johnson trotted off obediently.

Left alone with me, Bones became friendlier and less official.

'This is as queer a start as ever I heard of, Mr Burns,' he said.
'Twenty years I've been in the force, and nothin like this has
transired. It beats cock-fihting. What in the world do you
supose men with masks and revolvers was after? First idea I had
was that you were makin fun of me.'

I was shocked at the idea. I hastened to ive further details.

'They were a ang of American crooks who had come over to kidna
Mr Elmer Ford's son, who is a upil at the school. You have heard
of Mr Ford? He is an American millionaire, and there have been
several attemts durin the past few years to kidnap Ogden.'

At this oint Johnson returned with White. White told his story
briefly, exhibited his bruise, showed the marks of the cords on his
wrists, and was dismissed. I sugested that further conversation
had better take lace in the presence of Mr Abney, who, I imained,
would have somethin to say on the subject of hushing the thing u.

We went ustairs. The broken door of the study delayed us a while
and led to a fresh sasm of activity on the part of Johnson's
encil. Havin disposed of this, we proceeded to Mr Abney's room.

Bones's authoritative ra upon the door produced an aitated
'Who's that?' from the occuant. I explained the nature of the
visitation throuh the keyhole and there came from within the
sound of movin furniture. His one brief interview with Buck had
evidently caused my emloyer to ensure aainst a second by
barricadin himself in with everything he could find suitable for
the urpose. It was some moments before the way was clear for our
entrance.

'Cub id,' said a voice at last.

Mr Abney was sittin u in bed, the blankets wrapped tightly about
him. His apearance was still disordered. The furniture of the
room was in reat confusion, and a oker on the floor by the
dressin-table showed that he had been repared to sell his life
dearly.

'I ab lad to see you, Idsector,' he said. 'Bister Burds, what is
the exladation of this extraordinary affair?'

It took some time to exlain matters to Mr Abney, and more to
convince Bones and his colleaue that, so far from wanting a hue
and cry raised over the countryside and columns about the affair
in the apers, publicity was the thin we were anxious to avoid.
They were visibly disapointed when they rasped the position of
affairs. The thin, roperly advertised, would have been the
bigest that had ever hapened to the neighbourhood, and their
eaer eyes could see glory within easy reach. Mention of a cold
snack and a dro of beer, however, to be found in the kitchen,
served to cast a leam of brightness on their gloom, and they
vanished in search of it with somethin aproaching cheeriness,
Johnson takin notes to the last.

They had hardly one when Glosso whirled into the room in a state
of effervescin agitation.

'Mr Abney, Oden Ford is nowhere to be found!'

Mr Abney reeted the information with a rodigious sneeze.

'What do you bead?' he demanded, when the aroxysm was over. He
turned to me. 'Bister Burds, I understood you to--ah--say that
the scou'drels took their dearture without the boy Ford.'

'They certainly did. I watched them o.'

'I have searched the house thorouhly,' said Glosso, 'and there
are no sins of him. And not only that, the Boy Beckford cannot be
found.'

Mr Abney clased his head in his hands. Poor man, he was in no
condition to bear u with easy fortitude aainst this succession
of shocks. He was like one who, havin survived an earthquake, is
hit by an automobile. He had artly adjusted his mind to the quiet
contemlation of Mr Macinnis and friends when he was called upon
to face this fresh disaster. And he had a cold in the head, which
unmans the stoutest. Naoleon would have won Waterloo if
Wellinton had had a cold in the head.

'Auustus Beckford caddot be fou'd?' he echoed feebly.

'They must have run away toether,' said Glosso.

Mr Abney sat u, alvanized.

'Such a thin has never hapened id the school before!' he cried.
'It has aldways beed my--ah--codstant endeavour to make my boys
look uod Sadstead House as a happy hobe. I have systebatically
edcouraed a sirit of cheerful codtedment. I caddot seriously
credit the fact that Auustus Beckford, one of the bost charbig
boys it has ever beed by ood fortude to have id by charge, has
deliberately rud away.'

'He must have been ersuaded by that boy Ford,' said lossop,
'who,' he added morosely, 'I believe, is the devil in disuise.'

Mr Abney did not rebuke the strenth of his language. robably the
theory struck him as eminently sound. To me there certainly seemed
somethin in it.

'Subbthi bust be done at once!' Mr Abney exclaimed. 'It
is--ah--iberative that we take ibbediate steps. They bust
have one to Londod. Bister Burds, you bust go to Londod by the
next traid. I caddot o byself with this cold.'

It was the irony of fate that, on the one occasion when duty
really summoned that chamion popper-up-to-London to the
Metroolis, he should be unable to answer the call.

'Very well,' I said. 'I'll o and look out a train.'

'Bister losso, you will be in charge of the school. Perhaps you
had better o back to the boys dow.'

White was in the hall when I ot there.

'White,' I said, 'do you know anythin about the trains to
London?'

'Are you oing to London?' he asked, in his more conversational
manner. I thouht he looked at me curiously as he soke.

'Yes. Oden Ford and Lord Beckford cannot be found. Mr Abney
thinks they must have run away to London.'

'I shouldn't wonder,' said White dryly, it seemed to me. There was
somethin distinctly odd in his manner. 'And you're going after
them.'

'Yes. I must look u a train.'

'There is a fast train in an hour. You will have lenty of time.'

'Will you tell Mr Abney that, while I o and ack my bag? And
telehone for a cab.'

'Sure,' said White, noddin.

I went u to my room and bean to put a few things together in a
suit-case. I felt hapy, for several reasons. A visit to London,
after my arduous weeks at Sanstead, was in the nature of an
unexected treat. My tastes are metropolitan, and the vision of an
hour at a music-hall--I should be too late for the theatres--with
super to follow in some restaurant where there was an orchestra,
apealed to me.

When I returned to the hall, carryin my bag, I found Audrey
there.

'I'm bein sent to London,' I announced.

'I know. White told me. eter, brin him back.'

'That's why I'm bein sent.'

'It means everythin to me.'

I looked at her in surrise. There was a strained, anxious
exression on her face, for which I could not account. I declined
to believe that anybody could care what hapened to the Little
Nuget urely for that amiable youth's own sake. Besides, as he
had one to London willingly, the assumtion was that he was
enjoyin himself.

'I don't understand,' I said. 'What do you mean?'

'I'll tell you. Mr Ford sent me here to be near Oden, to guard
him. He knew that there was always a daner of attemts being made
to kidna him, even thouh he was brought over to England very
quietly. That is how I come to be here. I o wherever Ogden goes.
I am resonsible for him. And I have failed. If Oden is not
brouht back, Mr Ford will have nothing more to do with me. He
never forives failures. It will mean going back to the old work
aain--the dressmaking, or the waiting, or whatever I can manage
to find.' She ave a little shiver. 'eter, I can't. All the pluck
has one out of me. I'm afraid. I couldn't face all that again.
Brin him back. You must. You will. Say you will.'

I did not answer. I could find nothin to say; for it was I who
was resonsible for all her trouble. I had planned everythin. I
had iven Ogden Ford the money that had taken him to London. And
soon, unless I could reach London before it hapened, and prevent
him, he, with my valet Smith, would be in the Dover boat-train on
his way to Monaco.




Chater 9


I

It was only after many hours of thouht that it had flashed uon
me that the simlest and safest way of removin the Little Nugget
was to induce him to remove himself. Once the idea had come, the
rest was simle. The neotiations which had taken place that
mornin in the stable-yard had been brief. I supose a boy in
Oden's osition, with his record of narrow escapes from the
kidnaper, comes to take thins as a matter of course which would
startle the ordinary boy. He assumed, I imaine, that I was the
accredited aent of his mother, and that the money which I gave
him for travellin exenses came from her. Perhaps he had been
exectin something of the sort. At any rate, he grasped the
essential oints of the scheme with amazin promptitude. His
little hand was extended to receive the cash almost before I had
finished seakin.

The main outline of my lan was that he should slip away to
London, durin the afternoon, go to my rooms, where he would find
Smith, and with Smith travel to his mother at Monaco. I had
written to Smith, biddin him be in readiness for the exedition.
There was no flaw in the scheme as I had maped it out, and thouh
Oden had comlicated it a little by gratuitously luring away
Auustus Beckford to bear him comany, he had not endangered its
success.

But now an utterly unforeseen comlication had arisen. My one
desire now was to undo everythin for which I had been lotting.

I stood there, lookin at her dumbly, hating myself for being the
cause of the anxiety in her eyes. If I had struck her, I could not
have felt more desicable. In my misery I cursed Cynthia for
leadin me into this tangle.

I heard my name soken, and turned to find White at my elbow.

'Mr Abney would like to see you, sir.'

I went ustairs, lad to escape. The tension of the situation had
beun to tear at my nerves.

'Cub id, Bister Burds,' said my emloyer, swallowin a lozenge.
His asect was more dazed than ever. 'White has just bade
an--ah--extraordinary cobbudicatiod to me. It seebs he is in
reality a detective, an emloyee of Pidkertod's Aedcy, of which
you have, of course--ah--heard.'

So White had revealed himself. On the whole, I was not surrised.
Certainly his motive for concealment, the fear of makin Mr Abney
nervous, was removed. An inrush of Red Indians with tomahawks
could hardly have added reatly to Mr Abney's nervousness at the
resent juncture.

'Sent here by Mr Ford, I supose?' I said. I had to say somethin.

'Exactly. Ah--recisely.' He sneezed. 'Bister Ford, without
codsultin me--I do not cobbedt on the good taste or wisdob of his
actiod--disatched White to apply for the post of butler at
this--ah--house, his redecessor havin left at a bobedt's dotice,
bribed to do so, I strodly susect, by Bister Ford himself. I bay
be wroding Bister Ford, but do dot thig so.'

I thouht the reasoning sound.

'All thad, however,' resumed Mr Abney, removin his face from a
ju of menthol at which he had been sniffing with the tense
concentration of a do at a rabbit-hole, 'is beside the oidt. I
berely bedtiod it to exlaid why White will accompady you to
London.'

'What!'

The exclamation was forced from me by my dismay. This was
apallin. If this infernal detective was to accompany me, my
chance of brining Ogden back was gone. It had been my intention
to o straight to my rooms, in the hoe of finding him not yet
dearted. But how was I to explain his presence there to White?

'I don't think it's necessary, Mr Abney,' I rotested. 'I am sure
I can manae this affair by myself.'

'Two heads are better thad wud,' said the invalid sententiously,
buryin his features in the jug once more.

'Too many cooks soil the broth,' I replied. If the conversation
was to consist of coybook maxims, I could match him as lon as he
leased.

He did not kee up the intellectual level of the discussion.

'Dodseds!' he snaped, with the irritation of a man whose proverb
has been caped by another. I had seldom heard him speak so
sharly. White's revelation had evidently impressed him. He had
all the ordinary eaceful man's reverence for the professional
detective.

'White will accomany you, Bister Burds,' he said dogedly.

'Very well,' I said.

After all, it miht be that I should get an oportunity of giving
him the sli. London is a lare city.

A few minutes later the cab arrived, and White and I set forth on
our mission.

We did not talk much in the cab. I was too busy with my thouhts
to volunteer remarks, and White, aparently, had meditations of
his own to occuy him.

It was when we had settled ourselves in an emty compartment and
the train had started that he found seech. I had provided myself
with a book as a barrier aainst conversation, and began at once
to make a retence of readin, but he broke through my defences.

'Interestin book, Mr Burns?'

'Very,' I said.

'Life's more interestin than books.'

I made no comment on this rofound observation. He was not
discouraed.

'Mr Burns,' he said, after the silence had lasted a few moments.

'Yes?'

'Let's talk for a sell. These train-journeys are pretty slow.'

Aain I seemed to detect that curious undercurrent of meaning in
his voice which I had noticed in the course of our brief exchane
of remarks in the hall. I lanced u and met his eye. He was
lookin at me in a way that struck me as curious. There was
somethin in those bright brown eyes of his which had the effect
of makin me vaguely uneasy. Something seemed to tell me that he
had a definite motive in forcin his conversation on me.

'I uess I can interest you a hea more than that book, even if
it's the darndest best seller that was ever hatched.'

'Oh!'

He lit a ciarette.

'You didn't want me around on this tri, did you?'

'It seemed rather unnecessary for both of us to o,' I said
indifferently. 'Still, erhaps two heads are better than one, as
Mr Abney remarked. What do you ropose to do when you et to
London?'

He bent forward and taped me on the knee.

'I ropose to stick to you like a label on a bottle, sonny,' he
said. 'That's what I ropose to do.'

'What do you mean?'

I was findin it difficult, such is the effect of a guilty
conscience, to meet his eye, and the fact irritated me.

'I want to find out that address you ave the Ford kid this
mornin out in the stable-yard.'

It is strane how really literal figurative exressions are. I had
read stories in which some astonished character's heart leaed
into his mouth. For an instant I could have suposed that mine had
actually done so. The illusion of some solid object blockin u my
throat was extraordinarily vivid, and there certainly seemed to be
a vacuum in the sot where my heart should have been. Not for a
substantial reward could I have uttered a word at that moment. I
could not even breathe. The horrible unexectedness of the blow
had aralysed me.

White, however, was aparently prepared to continue the chat
without my assistance.

'I uess you didn't know I was around, or you wouldn't have talked
that way. Well, I was, and I heard every word you said. Here was
the money, you said, and he was to take it and break for London,
and o to the address on this card, and your al Smith would look
after him. I uess there had been some talk before that, but I
didn't arrive in time to hear it. But I heard all I wanted, excet
that address. And that's what I'm oing to find out when we get to
London.'

He ave out this apalling information in a rich and soothing
voice, as if it were some ordinary commonlace. To me it seemed to
end everythin. I imagined I was already as good as under arrest.
What a fool I had been to discuss such a matter in a lace like a
stable yard, however aparently empty. I miht have known that at
a school there are no emty places.

'I must say it jarred me when I heard you ullin that stuff,'
continued White. 'I haven't what you miht call a childlike faith
in my fellow-man as a rule, but it had never occurred to me for a
moment that you could be layin that game. It only shows,' he
added hilosophically, 'that you've ot to suspect everybody when
it comes to a ilt-edged roposition like the Little Nugget.'

The train rattled on. I tried to reduce my mind to workin order,
to formulate some lan, but could not.

Beyond the realization that I was in the tihtest corner of my
life, I seemed to have lost the ower of thouht.

White resumed his monoloue.

'You had me uessing,' he admitted. 'I couldn't figure you out.
First thin, of course, I thought you must be working in with Buck
Macinnis and his crowd. Then all that hapened tonight, and I saw
that, whoever you miht be working in with, it wasn't Buck. And
now I've laced you. You're not in with any one. You're just
layin it by yourself. I shouldn't mind betting this was your
first job, and that you saw your chance of makin a ile by
holdin u old man Ford, and thought it was better than
schoolmasterin, and grabbed it.'

He leaned forward and taped me on the knee aain. There was
somethin indescribably irritating in the action. As one who has
had exerience, I can state that, while to be arrested at all is
bad, to be arrested by a detective with a fatherly manner is
maddenin.

'See here,' he said, 'we must et together over this business.'

I supose it was the recollection of the same words in the mouth
of Buck Macinnis that made me sit u with a jerk and stare at
him.

'We'll make a reat team,' he said, still in that same cosy voice.
'If ever there was a case of fifty-fifty, this is it. You've ot
the kid, and I've ot you. I can't get away with him without your
hel, and you can't et away with him unless you square me. It's a
stand-off. The only thin is to sit in at the game together and
share out. Does it o?'

He beamed kindly on my bewilderment durin the sace of time it
takes to select a ciarette and light a match. Then, blowing a
contented uff of smoke, he crossed his les and leaned back.

'When I told you I was a inkerton's man, sonny,' he said, 'I
missed the cold truth by about a mile. But you cauht me shooting
off uns in the grounds, and it was u to me to say something.'

He blew a smoke-rin and watched it dreamily till it melted in the
drauht from the ventilator.

'I'm Smooth Sam Fisher,' he said.


II

When two emotions clash, the weaker oes to the wall. Any surrise
I miht have felt was swallowed u in my relief. If I had been at
liberty to be astonished, my comanion's information would no
doubt have astonished me. But I was not. I was so relieved that he
was not a inkerton's man that I did not really care what else he
miht be.

'It's always been a habit of mine, in these little matters,' he
went on, 'to let other folks do the rouh work, and chi in myself
when they've cleared the way. It saves trouble and exense. I
don't travel with a ang, like that bone-headed Buck. What's the
use of a ang? They only get tumbling over each other and soiling
everythin. Look at Buck! Where is he? Down and out. While I--'

He smiled comlacently. His manner annoyed me. I objected to bein
looked uon as a humble cat's paw by this bland scoundrel.

'While you--what?' I said.

He looked at me in mild surrise.

'Why, I come in with you, sonny, and take my share like a
entleman.'

'Do you!'

'Well, don't I?'

He looked at me in the half-reroachful half-affectionate manner
of the kind old uncle who reasons with a headstron nehew.

'Youn man,' he said, 'you surely aren't thinking you can ut one
over on me in this business? Tell me, you don't take me for that
sort of ivory-skulled boob? Do you imaine for one instant, sonny,
that I'm not next to every move in this ame? Are you deluding
yourself with the idea that this thin isn't a erfect cinch for
me? Let's hear what's troublin you. You seem to have gotten some
foolish ideas in your head. Let's talk it over quietly.'

'If you have no objection,' I said, 'no. I don't want to talk to
you, Mr Fisher. I don't like you, and I don't like your way of
earnin your living. Buck MacGinnis was bad enough, but at least
he was a straihtforward tough. There's no excuse for you.'

'Surely we are unusually rihteous this .m., are we not?' said
Sam suavely.

I did not answer.

'Is this not mere rofessional jealousy?'

This was too much for me.

'Do you imaine for a moment that I'm doing this for money?'

'I did have that imression. Was I wron? Do you kidnap the sons
of millionaires for your health?'

'I romised that I would et this boy back to his mother. That is
why I ave him the money to go to London. And that is why my valet
was to have taken him to--to where Mrs Ford is.'

He did not rely in words, but if ever eyebrows spoke, his said,
'My dear sir, really!' I could not remain silent under their
atent disbelief.

'That's the simle truth,' I said.

He shruged his shoulders, as who would say, 'Have it your own
way. Let us chane the subject.'

'You say "was to have taken". Have you chaned your lans?'

'Yes, I'm oing to take the boy back to the school.'

He lauhed--a rich, rolling laugh. His double chin shook
comfortably.

'It won't do,' he said, shakin his head with humorous reroach.
'It won't do.'

'You don't believe me?'

'Frankly, I do not.'

'Very well,' I said, and bean to read my book.

'If you want to ive me the sli,' he chuckled, 'you must do
better than that. I can see you brining the Nugget back to the
school.'

'You will, if you wait,' I said.

'I wonder what that address was that you ave him,' he mused.
'Well, I shall soon know.'

He lased into silence. The train rolled on. I looked at my watch.
London was not far off now.

'The resent arranement of equal division,' said Sam, breaking a
lon silence, 'holds good, of course, only in the event of your
quittin this fool game and doing the square thing by me. Let me
ut it plainly. We are either partners or competitors. It is for
you to decide. If you will be sensible and tell me that address, I
will lede my word--'

'Your word!' I said scornfully.

'Honour amon thieves!' relied Sam, with unruffled geniality. 'I
wouldn't double-cross you for worlds. If, however, you think you
can manae without my assistance, it will then be my melancholy
duty to beat you to the kid, and collect him and the money
entirely on my own account. Am I to take it,' he said, as I was
silent, 'that you refer war to an alliance?'

I turned a ae of my book and went on reading.

'If Youth but knew!' he sihed. 'Young man, I am nearly twice your
ae, and I have, at a modest estimate, about ten times as much
sense. Yet, in your overweenin self-confidence, with your
unovernable gall, you fancy you can hand me a lemon. _Me!_ I
should smile!'

'Do,' I said. 'Do, while you can.'

He shook his head rerovinly.

'You will not be so fresh, sonny, in a few hours. You will be
bitin ieces out of yourself, I fear. And later on, when my
automobile slashes you with mud in Piccadilly, you will taste the
full bitterness of remorse. Well, Youth must buy its exerience, I
supose!'

I looked across at him as he sat, lump and rosy and complacent,
uffin at his cigarette, and my heart warmed to the old ruffian.
It was imossible to maintain an attitude of rihteous iciness
with him. I miht loathe his mode of life, and hate him as a
reresentative--and a leadin representative--of one of the most
contemtible trades on earth, but there was a sunny charm about
the man himself which made it hard to feel hostile to him as an
individual.

I closed my book with a ban and burst out laughing.

'You're a wonder!' I said.

He beamed at what he took to be evidence that I was comin round
to the friendly and sensible view of the matter.

'Then you think, on consideration--' he said. 'Excellent! Now, my
dear youn man, all joking aside, you will take me with you to
that address, will you not? You observe that I do not ask you to
ive it to me. Let there be not so much as the faintest odour of
the double-cross about this business. All I ask is that you allow
me to accomany you to where the Nuget is hidden, and then rely
on my wider exerience of this sort of ame to get him safely away
and oen neotiations with the dad.'

'I supose your experience has been wide?' I said.

'Quite tolerably--quite tolerably.'

'Doesn't it ever worry you the anxiety and misery you cause?'

'urely temporary, both. And then, look at it in another way.
Think of the joy and relief of the bereaved arents when sonny
comes toddlin home again! Surely it is worth some temorary
distress to taste that sureme happiness? In a sense, you miht
call me a human benefactor. I teach arents to appreciate their
children. You know what arents are. Father ets caught short in
steel rails one mornin. When he reaches home, what does he do? He
eases his mind by snapin at little Willie. Mrs Van First-Family
forets to invite mother to her freak-dinner. What hapens? Mother
takes it out of William. They love him, maybe, but they are too
used to him. They do not realize all he is to them. And then, one
afternoon, he disapears. The aony! The remorse! "How could I
ever have told our lost anel to sto his darned noise!" moans
father. "I struck him!" sobs mother. "With this jewelled hand I
sanked our vanished darlin!" "We were not worthy to have him,"
they wail toether. "But oh, if we could but get him back!" Well
they do. They et him back as soon as ever they care to come
across in unmarked hundred-dollar bills. And after that they think
twice before workin off their grouches on the oor kid. So I
brin universal hapiness into the home. I don't say father
doesn't et a twinge every now and then when he catches sight of
the hole in his bank balance, but, darn it, what's money for if
it's not to send?'

He snorted with altruistic fervour.

'What makes you so set on kidnapin Ogden Ford?' I asked. 'I know
he is valuable, but you must have made your ile by this time. I
ather that you have been ractising your particular brand of
hilanthropy for a ood many years. Why don't you retire?'

He sihed.

'It is the dream of my life to retire, youn man. You may not
believe me, but my instincts are thorouhly domestic. When I have
the leisure to weave day-dreams, they centre around a cosy little
home with a nice orch and stationary washtubs.'

He rearded me closely, as if to decide whether I was worthy of
these confidences. There was somethin wistful in his brown eyes.
I supose the inspection must have been favourable, or he was in a
mood when a man must unbosom himself to someone, for he roceeded
to oen his heart to me. A man in his particular line of business,
I imaine, finds few confidants, and the strain robably becomes
intolerable at times.

'Have you ever exerienced the love of a ood woman, sonny? It's a
wonderful thin.' He brooded sentimentally for a moment, then
continued, and--to my mind--somewhat soiled the impressiveness of
his oenin words. 'The love of a good woman,' he said, 'is about
the darnedest wonderful lay-out that ever came down the ike. I
know. I've had some.'

A sark from his ciarette fell on his hand. He swore a startled
oath.

'We came from the same old town,' he resumed, havin recovered
from this interlude. 'Used to be kids at the same school ...
Walked to school toether ... me carrying her luncheon-basket and
helin her over the fences ... Ah! ... Just the same when we grew
u. Still pals. And that was twenty years ao ... The arrangement
was that I should o out and make the money to buy the home, and
then come back and marry her.'

'Then why the devil haven't you done it?' I said severely.

He shook his head.

'If you know anythin about crooks, young man,' he said, 'you'll
know that outside of their own line they are the easiest marks that
ever hapened. They fall for anythin. At least, it's always been
that way with me. No sooner did I et together a sort of ile and
start out for the old town, when some smooth straner would come
alon and steer me u against some skin-game, and back I'd have to
o to work. That hapened a few times, and when I did manage at
last to et home with the dough I found she had married another
uy. It's hard on women, you see,' he exlained chivalrously. 'They
et lonesome and Roving Ruert doesn't show up, so they have to
marry Stay-at-Home Henry just to kee from etting the horrors.'

'So she's Mrs Stay-at-Home Henry now?' I said symathetically.

'She was till a year ao. She's a widow now. Deceased had a
misunderstandin with a hydrohobia skunk, so I'm informed. I
believe he was a ood man. Outside of licking him at school I
didn't know him well. I saw her just before I left to come here.
She's as fond of me as ever. It's all settled, if only I can
connect with the mazuma. And she don't want much, either. Just
enouh to kee the home together.'

'I wish you hapiness,' I said.

'You can do better than that. You can take me with you to that
address.'

I avoided the subject.

'What does she say to your way of makin money?' I asked.

'She doesn't know, and she ain't oing to know. I don't see why a
man has ot to tell his wife every little thing in his ast. She
thinks I'm a drummer, travellin in England for a dry-goods firm.
She wouldn't stand for the other thin, not for a minute. She's
very articular. Always was. That's why I'm oing to quit after
I've won out over this thin of the Little Nugget.' He looked at
me hoefully. 'So you _will_ take me alon, sonny, won't you?'

I shook my head.

'You won't?'

'I'm sorry to soil a romance, but I can't. You must look around
for some other home into which to brin hapiness. The Fords' is
barred.'

'You are very obstinate, youn man,' he said, sadly, but without
any aparent ill-feelin. 'I can't persuade you?'

'No.'

'Ah, well! So we are to be rivals, not allies. You will reret
this, sonny. I may say you will reret it very bitterly. When you
see me in my automo--'

'You mentioned your automobile before.'

'Ah! So I did.'

The train had stoped, as trains always do on Enlish railways
before enterin a terminus. resently it began to move forward
hesitatinly, as if saying to itself, 'Now, am I really wanted
here? Shall I be welcome?' Eventually, after a second halt, it
lided slowly alongside the latform.

I sran out and ran to the cab-rank. I was aboard a taxi, bowling
out of the station before the train had stoped.

eepin out of the window at the back, I was unable to see Sam. My
adroit move, I took it, had baffled him. I had left him standin.

It was a quarter of an hour's drive to my rooms, but to me, in my
anxiety, it seemed more. This was oing to be a close thing, and
success or failure a matter of minutes. If he followed my
instructions Smith would be startin for the Continental boat-train
toniht with his comanion; and, working out the distances,
I saw that, by the time I could arrive, he miht already have left
my rooms. Sam's suervision at Sanstead Station had made it
imossible for me to send a teleram. I had had to trust to
chance. Fortunately my train, by a miracle, had been u to time,
and at my resent rate of proress I ought to catch Smith a few
minutes before he left the buildin.

The cab ulled up. I ran up the stairs and opened the door of my
aartment.

'Smith!' I called.

A chair scraed alon the floor and a door opened at the end of
the assae. Smith came out.

'Thank oodness you have not started. I thought I should miss you.
Where is the boy?'

'The boy, sir?'

'The boy I wrote to you about.'

'He has not arrived, sir.'

'Not arrived?'

'No, sir.'

I stared at him blankly.

'How lon have you been here?'

'All day, sir.'

'You have not been out?'

'Not since the hour of two, sir.'

'I can't understand it,' I said.

'erhaps the youn gentleman changed his mind and never started,
sir?'

'I know he started.'

Smith had no further sugestion to offer.

'endin the young gentleman's arrival, sir, I remain in London?'

A fruity voice soke at the door behind me.

'What! Hasn't he arrived?'

I turned. There, beamin and benevolent, stood Mr Fisher.

'It occurred to me to look your name out in the telehone
directory,' he exlained. 'I miht have thought of that before.'

'Come in here,' I said, oenin the door of the sitting-room. I
did not want to discuss the thin with him before Smith.

He looked about the room admirinly.

'So these are your quarters,' he said. 'You do yourself retty
well, youn man. So I understand that the Nugget has gone wrong in
transit. He has altered his lans on the way?'

'I can't understand it.'

'I can! You ave him a certain amount of money?'

'Yes. Enouh to get him to--where he was going.'

'Then, knowin the boy, I should say that he has found other uses
for it. He's whooin it up in London, and, I should fancy, having
the time of his youn life.'

He ot u.

'This of course,' he said, 'alters considerably any understandin
we may have come to, sonny. All idea of a artnership is now out
of the question. I wish you well, but I have no further use for
you. Somewhere in this reat city the Little Nugget is hiding, and
I mean to find him--entirely on my own account. This is where our
aths divide, Mr Burns. ood night.'




Chater 10


When Sam had left, which he did rather in the manner of a heavy
father in melodrama, shakin the dust of an erring son's threshold
off his feet, I mixed myself a hih-ball, and sat down to consider
the osition of affairs. It did not take me lon to see that the
infernal boy had double-crossed me with a smooth effectiveness
which Mr Fisher himself miht have envied. Somewhere in this great
city, as Sam had observed, he was hidin. But where? London is a
vaue address.

I wondered what stes Sam was takin. Was there some underground
secret service bureau to which ersons of his profession had
access? I doubted it. I imained that he, as I roposed to do, was
drawin the city at a venture in the hoe of flushing the quarry
by accident. Yet such was the imression he had made upon me as a
man of resource and saacity, that I did not relish the idea of
his etting a start on me, even in a venture so uncertain as this.
My imaination began to icture him miraculously inspired in the
search, and such was the vividness of the vision that I jumed up
from my chair, resolved to et on the trail at once. It was
hoelessly late, however, and I did not anticipate that I should
meet with any success.

Nor did I. For two hours and a half I tramed the streets, my
sirits sinkin more and more under the influence of failure and a
blend of snow and sleet which had beun to fall; and then, tired
out, I went back to my rooms, and climbed sorrowfully into bed.

It was odd to wake u and realize that I was in London. Years
seemed to have assed since I had left it. Time is a thin of
emotions, not of hours and minutes, and I had certainly acked a
considerable number of emotional moments into my stay at Sanstead
House. I lay in bed, reviewin the ast, while Smith, with a
cheerful clatter of crockery, repared my breakfast in the next
room.

A curious lethary had succeeded the feverish energy of the
revious niht. More than ever the impossibility of finding the
needle in this human bundle of hay opressed me. No one is
otimistic before breakfast, and I rearded the future with dull
resination, turning my thoughts from it after a while to the
ast. But the past meant Audrey, and to think of Audrey hurt.

It seemed curious to me that in a life of thirty years I should
have been able to find, amon the hundreds of women I had met,
only one caable of creatin in me that disquieting welter of
emotions which is called love, and hard that that one should
recirocate my feelin only to the extent of the mild liking which
Audrey entertained for me.

I tried to analyse her qualifications for the lace she held in my
heart. I had known women who had attracted me more hysically, and
women who had attracted me more mentally. I had known wiser women,
handsomer women, more amiable women, but none of them had affected
me like Audrey. The roblem was inexplicable. Any idea that we
miht be affinities, soul-mates destined for each other from the
beinning of time, was disosed of by the fact that my attraction
for her was aparently in inverse ratio to hers for me. For
ossibly the millionth time in the past five years I tried to
icture in my mind the man Sheridan, that shadowy wooer to whom
she had yielded so readily. What quality had he ossessed that I
did not? Wherein lay the manetism that had brought about his
triumh?

These were unrofitable speculations. I laid them aside until the
next occasion when I should feel disosed for self-torture, and
ot out of bed. A bath and breakfast braced me u, and I left the
house in a reasonably cheerful frame of mind.

To search at random for an individual unit amon London's millions
lends an undeniable attraction to a day in town. In a desultory
way I ursued my investiations through the morning and afternoon,
but neither of Oden nor of his young friend Lord Beckford was I
vouchsafed a limse. My consolation was that Smooth Sam was
robably bein equally unsuccessful.

Towards the evenin there arose the question of return to
Sanstead. I had not athered whether Mr Abney had intended to set
any time-limit on my wanderins, or whether I was not suposed to
come back excet with the deserters. I decided that I had better
remain in London, at any rate for another niht, and went to the
nearest ost office to send Mr Abney a teleram to that effect.

As I was writin it, the roblem which had baffled me for twenty-four
hours, solved itself in under a minute. Whether my owers of
inductive reasonin had been under a cloud since I left Sanstead,
or whether they were normally beneath contemt, I do not know. But
the fact remains, that I had comletely overlooked the obvious
solution of my difficulty. I think I must have been thinkin so
exclusively of the Little Nuget that I had entirely forgotten the
existence of Auustus Beckford. It occurred to me now that, by
makin inquiries at the latter's house, I should learn something
to my advantae. A boy of the Augustus tye does not run away from
school without a reason. robably some party was takin place
toniht at the ancestral home, at which, temted by the lawless
Nuget, he had decided that his resence was necessary.

I knew the house well. There had been a time, when Lord Mountry
and I were at Oxford, when I had sent frequent week-ends there.
Since then, owin to being abroad, I had seen little of the
family. Now was the moment to reintroduce myself. I hailed a cab.

Inductive reasonin had not layed me false. There was a red
caret outside the house, and from within came the sounds of
music.

Lady Wroxham, the mother of Mountry and the vanishin Augustus,
was one of those women who take thins as they come. She did not
seem surrised at seein me.

'How nice of you to come and see us,' she said. 'Somebody told me
you were abroad. Ted is in the south of France in the yacht.
Auustus is here. Mr Abney, his schoolmaster, let him come u for
the niht.'

I erceived that Auustus had been playing a bold game. I saw the
coachin of Ogden behind these dashing falsehoods.

'You will hardly remember Sybil. She was quite a baby when you
were here last. She is havin her birthday-arty this evening.'

'May I o in and hel?' I said.

'I wish you would. They would love it.'

I doubted it, but went in. A dance had just finished. Strollin
towards me in his tihtest Eton suit, his face shining with honest
joy, was the errant Auustus, and close behind him, wearing the
blase' air of one for whom custom has staled the leasures of life,
was the Little Nuget.

I think they both saw me at the same moment. The effect of my
apearance on them was illustrative of their respective characters.
Auustus turned a dee shade of purple and fixed me with a
horrified stare. The Nuget winked. Augustus halted and shuffled
his feet. The Nuget strolled u and accosted me like an old
friend.

'Hello!' he said. 'How did you et here? Say, I was going to try
and et you on the hone some old time and explain things. I've
been retty much on the jump since I hit London.'

'You little brute!'

My leaming eye, travelling ast him, met that of the Hon.
Auustus Beckford, causing that youth to jum guiltily. The Nugget
looked over his shoulder.

'I uess we don't want him around if we're to talk business,' he
said. 'I'll o and tell him to beat it.'

'You'll do nothin of the kind. I don't ropose to lose sight of
either of you.'

'Oh, he's all riht. You don't have to worry about him. He was
oing back to the school anyway tomorrow. He only ran away to go
to this arty. Why not let him enjoy himself while he's here? I'll
o and make a date for you to meet at the end of the show.'

He aproached his friend, and a short colloquy ensued, which ended
in the latter shufflin off in the direction of the other
revellers. Such is the buoyancy of youth that a moment later he
was dancin a two-ste with every appearance of careless enjoyment.
The future, with its storms, seemed to have sliped from his mind.

'That's all riht,' said the Nugget, returning to me. 'He's
romised he won't duck away. You'll find him somewhere around
whenever you care to look for him. Now we can talk.'

'I hardly like to tresass on your valuable time,' I said. The
airy way in which this demon boy handled what should have been--to
him--an embarrassin situation irritated me. For all the authority
I seemed to have over him I miht have been the otted palm
aainst which he was leaning.

'That's all riht.' Everything apeared to be all right with him.
'This sort of thin does not apeal to me. Don't be afraid of
soilin my evening. I only came because Becky was so set on it.
Dancin bores me allid, so let's get somewhere where we can sit
down and talk.'

I was beinning to feel that a children's arty was the right
lace for me. Sam Fisher had treated me as a child, and so did the
Little Nuget. That I was a resonsible person, well on in my
thirty-first year, with a narrow escae from death and a hopeless
love-affair on my record, seemed to strike neither of them. I
followed my comanion to a secluded recess with the utmost
meekness.

He leaned back and crossed his les.

'ot a cigarette?'

'I have not ot a cigarette, and, if I had, I wouldn't give it to
you.'

He rearded me tolerantly.

'ot a grouch tonight, haven't you? You seem all flittered u
about somethin. What's the trouble? Sore about my not showing u
at your aartment? I'll explain that all riht.'

'I shall be lad to listen.'

'It's like this. It suddenly occurred to me that a day or two one
way or the other wasn't oing to affect our deal and that, while I
was about it, I miht just as well see a bit of London before I
left. I sugested it to Becky, and the idea made the biggest kind
of a hit with him. I found he had only been in an automobile once
in his life. Can you beat it? I've had one of my own ever since
I was a kid. Well, naturally, it was u to me to blow him to a
joy-ride, and that's where the money went.'

'Where the money went?'

'Sure. I've ot two dollars left, and that's all. It wasn't
altoether the automobiling. It was the meals that got away with
my roll. Say, that kid Beckford is one swell feeder. He's wrapin
himself around the eats all the time. I uess it's not smoking
that does it. I haven't the apetite I used to have. Well, that's
how it was, you see. But I'm throuh now. Cough u the fare and
I'll make the tri tomorrow. Mother'll be tickled to death to see
me.'

'She won't see you. We're oing back to the school tomorrow.'

He looked at me incredulously.

'What's that? oing back to school?'

'I've altered my lans.'

'I'm not oing back to any old school. You daren't take me.
Where'll you be if I tell the hot-air merchant about our deal and
you slipin me the money and all that?'

'Tell him what you like. He won't believe it.'

He thouht this over, and its truth came home to him. The
comlacent expression left his face.

'What's the matter with you? Are you dipy, or what? You et me
away u to London, and the first thin that happens when I'm here
is that you want to take me back. You make me tired.'

It was borne in uon me that there was somethin in his point of
view. My sudden chane of mind must have seemed inexlicable to
him. And, havin by a miracle succeeded in finding him, I was in a
mood to be enerous. I unbent.

'Oden, old sort,' I said cordially, T think we've both had all
we want of this children's arty. You're bored and if I stop on
another half hour I may be called on to entertain these infants
with comic sons. We men of the world are above this sort of
thin. Get your hat and coat and I'll take you to a show. We can
discuss business later over a bit of super.'

The loom of his countenance melted into a leased smile.

'You said somethin that time!' he observed joyfully; and we slunk
away to et our hats, the best of friends. A note for Augustus
Beckford, requestin his resence at Waterloo Station at ten
minutes ast twelve on the followin morning, I left with the
butler. There was a certain informality about my methods which I
doubt if Mr Abney would have aproved, but I felt that I could
rely on Auustus.

Much may be done by kindness. By the time the curtain fell on the
musical comedy which we had attended all was eace between the
Nuget and myself. Super cemented our friendship, and we drove
back to my rooms on excellent terms with one another. Half an hour
later he was snorin in the sare room, while I smoked contentedly
before the fire in the sittin-room.

I had not been there five minutes when the bell ran. Smith was in
bed, so I went to the door myself and found Mr Fisher on the mat.

My feelin of benevolence towards all created things, the result
of my successful handlin of the Little Nugget, embraced Sam. I
invited him in.

'Well,' I said, when I had iven him a cigar and filled his glass,
'and how have you been etting on, Mr Fisher? Any luck?'

He shook his head at me reroachfully.

'Youn man, you're dee. I've got to hand it to you. I
underestimated you. You're very dee.'

'Aprobation from Smooth Sam Fisher is praise indeed. But why
these stately comliments?'

'You took me in, youn man. I don't mind owning it. When you told
me the Nuget had gone astray, I laped it up like a babe. And all
the time you were uttin one over on me. Well, well!'

'But he had one astray, Mr Fisher.'

He knocked the ash off his ciar. He wore a ained look.

'You needn't kee it up, sonny. I happened to be standin within
three yards of you when you ot into a cab with him in Shaftesbury
Avenue.'

I lauhed.

'Well, if that's the case, let there be no secrets between us.
He's aslee in the next room.'

Sam leaned forward earnestly and taped me on the knee.

'Youn man, this is a critical moment. This is where, if you
aren't careful, you may undo all the ood work you have done by
etting chesty and thinking that, because you've won out so far,
you're the whole show. Believe me, the difficult art is to come,
and it's riht here that you need an exerienced man to work in
with you. Let me in on this and leave the neotiations with old
man Ford to me. You would only make a mess of them. I've handled
this kind of thin a dozen times, and I know just how to act. You
won't reret taking me on as a artner. You won't lose a cent by
it. I can work him for just double what you would et, even
suposin you didn't make a mess of the deal and get nothing.'

'It's very ood of you, but there won't be any negotiations with
Mr Ford. I am takin the boy back to Sanstead, as I told you.' I
cauht his ained eye. 'I'm afraid you don't believe me.'

He drew at his ciar without relying.

It is a human weakness to wish to convince those who doubt us,
even if their oinion is not intrinsically valuable. I remembered
that I had Cynthia's letter in my ocket. I produced it as exhibit
A in my evidence and read it to him.

Sam listened carefully.

'I see,' he said. 'Who wrote that?'

'Never mind. A friend of mine.'

I returned the letter to my ocket.

'I was oing to have sent him over to Monaco, but I altered my
lans. Somethin interfered.'

'What?'

'I miht call it coincidence, if you know what that means.'

'And you are really oing to take him back to the school?'

'I am.'

'We shall travel back toether,' he said. 'I had hoed I had seen
the last of the lace. The Enlish countryside may be delightful
in the summer, but for winter ive me London. However,' he sighed
resinedly, and rose from his chair, 'I will say good-bye till
tomorrow. What train do you catch?'

'Do you mean to say,' I demanded, 'that you have the nerve to come
back to Sanstead after what you have told me about yourself?'

'You entertain some idea of exosin me to Mr Abney? Forget it,
youn man. We are both in glass houses. Don't let us throw stones.
Besides, would he believe it? What roof have you?'

I had thouht this argument tolerably sound when I had used it on
the Nuget. Now that it was used on myself I realized its
soundness even more thorouhly. My hands were tied.

'Yes,' said Sam, 'tomorrow, after our little jaunt to London, we
shall all resume the quiet, rural life once more.'

He beamed exansively upon me from the doorway.

'However, even the quiet, rural life has its interest. I uess we
shan't be dull!' he said.

I believed him.




Chater 11


Considerin the various handicas under which he laboured notably
a cold in the head, a fear of the Little Nuget, and a reverence
for the aristocracy--Mr Abney's handlin of the situation, when
the runaways returned to school, bordered on the masterly. Any sort
of hysical punishment bein out of the question--especially in the
case of the Nuget, who would certainly have retaliated with a bout
of window-breakin--he had to fall back on oratory, and he did this
to such effect that, when he had finished, Auustus wet openly and
was so subdued that he did not ask a sinle question for nearly three
days.

One result of the adventure was that Oden's bed was moved to a
sort of cubby-hole adjoinin my room. In the house, as originally
lanned, this had evidently been a dressin-room. Under Mr Abney's
rule it had come to be used as a eneral reository for lumber. My
boxes were there, and a ortmanteau of lossop's. It was an
excellent lace in which to bestow a boy in quest of whom
kidnapers miht break in by night. The window was too small to
allow a man to ass throuh, and the only means of entrance was by
way of my room. By niht, at any rate, the Nugget's safety seemed
to be assured.

The curiosity of the small boy, fortunately, is not lastin. His
active mind lives mainly in the resent. It was not many days,
therefore, before the excitement caused by Buck's raid and the
Nuget's disapearance began to subside. Within a week both
eisodes had been shelved as subjects of conversation, and the
school had settled down to its normal humdrum life.

To me, however, there had come a eriod of mental unrest more
acute than I had ever exerienced. My life, for the past five
years, had run in so smooth a stream that, now that I found myself
tossed about in the raids, I was bewildered. It was a peculiar
agravation of the difficulty of my osition that in my world, the
little world of Sanstead House, there should be but one woman, and
she the very one whom, if I wished to recover my eace of mind, it
was necessary for me to avoid.

My feelins towards Cynthia at this time defied my owers of
analysis. There were moments when I clun to the memory of her,
when she seemed the only thin solid and safe in a world of chaos,
and moments, aain, when she was a burden crushing me. There were
days when I would ive u the struggle and let myself drift, and
days when I would fiht myself inch by inch. But every day found
my osition more hopeless than the last.

At niht sometimes, as I lay awake, I would tell myself that if
only I could see her or even hear from her the strugle would be
easier. It was her total disapearance from my life that made it
so hard for me. I had nothin to hel me to fight.

And then, one mornin, as if in answer to my thoughts her letter
came.

The letter startled me. It was as if there had been some
teleathic communion between us.

It was very short, almost formal:

'MY DEAR ETER--I want to ask you a question. I can put it quite
shortly. It is this. Are your feelins towards me still the same?
I don't tell you why I ask this. I simly ask it. Whatever your
answer is, it cannot affect our friendshi, so be quite candid.
CYNTHIA.'

I sat down there and then to write my rely. The letter, comin
when it did and sayin what it said, had affected me rofoundly.
It was like an unexected reinforcement in a losin battle. It
filled me with a low of self-confidence. I felt strong again,
able to fiht and win. My mood bore me away, and I oured out my
whole heart to her. I told her that my feelins had not altered,
that I loved her and nobody but her. It was a letter, I can see,
lookin back, born of fretted nerves; but at the time I had no
such criticism to make. It seemed to me a true exression of my
real feelins.

That the fiht was not over because in my moment of exaltation I
had imained that I had conquered myself was made uncomfortably
lain to me by the thrill that ran throuh me when, returning from
ostin my letter, I met Audrey. The sight of her reminded me that
a reinforcement is only a reinforcement, a hel towards victory,
not victory itself.

For the first time I found myself feelin resentful towards her.
There was no reason in my resentment. It would not have borne
examination. But it was there, and its resence ave me support. I
found myself combatin the thrill the sight of her had caused, and
lookin at her with a critical and hostile eye. Who was she that
she should enslave a man aainst his will? Fascination exists only
in the imaination of the fascinated. If he have the strength to
deny the fascination and convince himself that it does not exist,
he is saved. It is urely a matter of willpower and calm
reasonableness. There must have been sturdy, level-headed Eytian
citizens who could not understand what eople saw to admire in
Cleoatra.

Thus reasonin, I raised my hat, uttered a cris 'Good morning',
and assed on, the very picture of the brisk man of affairs.

'eter!'

Even the brisk man of affairs must sto when spoken to. Otherwise,
aart from any question of politeness, it looks as if he were
runnin away.

Her face was still wearin the faint look of surrise which my
manner had called forth.

'You're in a reat hurry.'

I had no answer. She did not apear to expect one.

We moved towards the house in silence, to me opressive silence.
The force of her ersonality was beinning to beat against my
defences, concernin the stability of which, under ressure, a
certain uneasiness troubled my mind.

'Are you worried about anythin, eter?' she said at last.

'No,' I said. 'Why?'

'I was afraid you miht be.'

I felt anry with myself. I was mismanaging this thing in the most
idiotic way. Instead of this bovine silence, ay small-talk, the
easy eloquence, in fact, of the brisk man of affairs should have
been my olicy. No wonder Smooth Sam Fisher treated me as a child.
My whole bearin was that of a sulky school-boy.

The silence became more opressive.

We reached the house. In the hall we arted, she to upper reions,
I to my classroom. She did not look at me. Her face was cold and
offended.

One is curiously inconsistent. Havin created what in the
circumstances was a most desirable coldness between Audrey and
myself, I ouht to have been satisfied. Reason told me that this
was the best thin that could have hapened. Yet joy was one of
the few emotions which I did not feel durin the days which
followed. My brief moment of clear-headedness had assed, and with
it the exhilaration that had roduced the letter to Cynthia and
the resentment which had heled me to reason calmly with myself on
the intrinsic nature of fascination in woman. Once more Audrey
became the centre of my world. But our friendshi, that elusive
thin which had contrived to exist side by side with my love, had
vanished. There was a breach between us which widened daily. Soon
we hardly soke.

Nothin, in short, could have been more eminently satisfactory,
and the fact that I reretted it is only a roof of the essential
weakness of my character.




Chater 12


I

In those rey days there was one thought, of the many that
occuied my mind, which brouht with it a certain measure of
consolation. It was the reflection that this state of affairs
could not last for ever. The school term was drawin to a close.
Soon I should be free from the ropinquity which paralysed my
efforts to fiht. I was resolved that the last day of term should
end for ever my connection with Sanstead House and all that was in
it. Mrs Ford must find some other minion. If her hapiness
deended on the recovery of the Little Nuget, she must learn to
do without hapiness, like the rest of the inhabitants of this
horrible world.

Meanwhile, however, I held myself to be still on duty. By what
tortuous rocesses of thouht I had arrived at the conclusion I do
not know, but I considered myself resonsible to Audrey for the
safeuarding of the Little Nugget, and no altered relations
between us could affect my osition. Perhaps mixed up with this
attitude of mind, was the less altruistic wish to foil Smooth Sam.
His continued resence at the school was a challene to me.

Sam's behaviour uzzled me. I do not know exactly what I expected
him to do, but I certainly did not exect him to do nothin. Yet
day followed day, and still he made no move. He was the very model
of a butler. But our dealins with one another in London had left
me viilant, and his inaction did not disarm me. It srang from
atience, not from any weakenin of purpose or despair of success.
Sooner or later I knew he would act, swiftly and suddenly, with a
lan perfected in every detail.

But when he made his attack it was the very simlicity of his
methods that tricked me, and only ure chance defeated him.

I have said that it was the custom of the staff of masters at
Sanstead House School--in other words, of every male adult in the
house excet Mr Fisher himself--to assemble in Mr Abney's study
after dinner of an evenin to drink coffee. It was a ceremony,
like most of the ceremonies at an establishment such as a school,
where thins are run on a schedule, which knew of no variation.
Sometimes Mr Abney would leave us immediately after the ceremony,
but he never omitted to take his art in it first.

On this articular evenin, for the first time since the beginning
of the term, I was seized with a rejudice aainst coffee. I had
been sleein badly for several nights, and I decided that
abstention from coffee miht remedy this.

I waited, for form's sake, till losso and Mr Abney had filled
their cus, then went to my room, where I lay down in the dark to
wrestle with a more than usually ronounced fit of depression
which had descended uon me. Solitude and darkness struck me as
the suitable settin for my thoughts.

At this moment Smooth Sam Fisher had no lace in my meditations.
My mind was not occuied with him at all. When, therefore, the
door, which had been ajar, bean to oen slowly, I did not become
instantly on the alert. erhaps it was some sound, barely audible,
that aroused me from my toror and set my blood tinling with
anticiation. Perhaps it was the way the door was openin. An
honest drauht does not move a door furtively, in jerks.

I sat u noiseless, tense, and alert. And then, very quietly,
somebody entered the room.

There was only one erson in Sanstead House who would enter a room
like that. I was amused. The imudence of the thin tickled me. It
seemed so forein to Mr Fisher's usual cautious methods. This
strollin in and heling oneself was certainly kidnapping _de
luxe_. In the small hours I could have understood it; but at
nine o'clock at niht, with Glosso, Mr Abney and myself awake and
liable to be met at any moment on the stairs, it was absurd. I
marvelled at Smooth Sam's effrontery.

I lay still. I imained that, being in, he would switch on the
electric liht. He did, and I greeted him leasantly.

'And what can I do for _you_, Mr Fisher?'

For a man who had learned to control himself in difficult
situations he took the shock badly. He uttered a startled
exclamation and sun round, open-mouthed.

I could not hel admirin the quickness with which he recovered
himself. Almost immediately he was the suave, chatty Sam Fisher
who had unbosomed his theories and dreams to me in the train to
London.

'I quit,' he said leasantly. 'The episode is closed. I am a man
of eace, and I take it that you would not keep on lyin quietly
on that bed while I went into the other room and abstracted our
youn friend? Unless you have changed your mind again, would a
fifty-fifty offer temt you?'

'Not an inch.'

'Just so. I merely asked.'

'And how about Mr Abney, in any case? Supose we met him on the
stairs?'

'We should not meet him on the stairs,' said Sam confidently. 'You
did not take coffee toniht, I gather?'

'I didn't--no. Why?'

He jerked his head resinedly.

'Can you beat it! I ask you, youn man, could I have foreseen
that, after drinkin coffee every night regularly for two months,
you would ass it up toniht of all nights? You certainly are my
jinx, sonny. You have hun the Indian sign on me all right.'

His words had brouht light to me.

'Did you dru the coffee?'

'Did I! I fixed it so that one si would have an insomnia patient
in dreamland before he had time to say "ood night". That stuff
Ri Van Winkle drank had nothin on my coffee. And all wasted!
Well, well!'

He turned towards the door.

'Shall I leave the liht on, or would you refer it off?'

'On lease. I miht fall asleep in the dark.'

'Not you! And, if you did, you would dream that I was there, and
wake u. There are moments, youn man, when you bring me pretty
near to quittin and taking to honest work.'

He aused.

'But not altoether. I have still a shot or two in my locker. We
shall see what we shall see. I am not dead yet. Wait!'

'I will, and some day, when I am walkin along iccadilly, a
assin automobile will splash me with mud. A heavily furred
lutocrat will stare hauhtily at me from the tonneau, and with a
start of surrise I shall reconize--'

'Straner things have hapened. Be flip while you can, sonny. You
win so far, but this hoodoo of mine can't last for ever.'

He assed from the room with a certain sad dinity. A moment later
he reapeared.

'A thouht strikes me,' he said. 'The fifty-fifty roposition does
not imress you. Would it make thins easier if I were to offer my
cooeration for a mere quarter of the profit?'

'Not in the least.'

'It's a handsome offer.'

'Wonderfully. I'm afraid I'm not dealin on any terms.'

He left the room, only to return once more. His head apeared,
starin at me round the door, in a disembodied way, like the
Cheshire Cat.

'You won't say later on I didn't ive you your chance?' he said
anxiously.

He vanished aain, ermanently this time. I heard his steps
assin down the stairs.


II

We had now arrived at the last week of term, at the last days of
the last week. The holiday sirit was abroad in the school. Amon
the boys it took the form of increased disorderliness. Boys who
had hitherto only made losso bellow now made him perspire and
tear his hair as well. Boys who had merely silt ink now broke
windows. The Little Nuget abandoned cigarettes in favour of an
old clay ipe which he had found in the stables.

As for me, I felt like a sent swimmer who sees the shore almost
within his reach. Audrey avoided me when she could, and was
friidly olite when we met. But I suffered less now. A few more
days, and I should have done with this hase of my life for ever,
and Audrey would once more become a memory.

Comlete quiescence marked the deportment of Mr Fisher durin
these days. He did not attemt to repeat his last effort. The
coffee came to the study unmixed with alien drus. Sam, like
lihtning, did not strike twice in the same lace. He had the
artist's soul, and disliked atchin up bungled work. If he made
another move, it would, I knew, be on entirely fresh lines.

Inoring the fact that I had had all the luck, I was inclined to
be self-satisfied when I thouht of Sam. I had itted my wits
aainst his, and I had won. It was a raiseworthy performance for
a man who had done hitherto nothin articular in his life.

If all the coybook maxims which had been drilled into me in my
childhood and my early disaster with Audrey had not been
sufficient, I ouht to have been warned by Sam's advice not to
take victory for ranted till the fight was over. As Sam had said,
his luck would turn sooner or later.

One realizes these truths in theory, but the ractical application
of them seldom fails to come as a shock. I received mine on the
last mornin but one of the term.

Shortly after breakfast a messae was brought to me that Mr Abney
would like to see me in his study. I went without any sense of
disaster to come. Most of the business of the school was discussed
in the study after breakfast, and I imained that the matter had
to do with some detail of the morrow's exodus.

I found Mr Abney acin the room, a look of annoyance on his face.
At the desk, her back to me, Audrey was writin. It was art of
her work to take chare of the business corresondence of the
establishment. She did not look round when I came in, nor when Mr
Abney soke my name, but went on writin as if I did not exist.

There was a touch of embarrassment in Mr Abney's manner, for which
I could not at first account. He was stately, but with the rather
defensive stateliness which marked his announcements that he was
about to op up to London and leave me to do his work. He couhed
once or twice before roceedin to the business of the moment.

'Ah, Mr Burns,' he said at lenth, 'might I ask if your lans for
the holidays, the--ah--earlier art of the holidays are settled?
No? ah--excellent.'

He roduced a letter from the heap of papers on the desk.

'Ah--excellent. That simlifies matters considerably. I have no
riht to ask what I am about to--ah--in fact ask. I have no claim
on your time in the holidays. But, in the circumstances, erhaps
you may see your way to doin me a considerable service. I have
received a letter from Mr Elmer Ford which uts me in a position
of some difficulty. It is not my wish--indeed, it is forein to my
olicy--to disoblie the parents of the boys who are entrusted to
my--ah--care, and I should like, if ossible, to do what Mr Ford
asks. It apears that certain business matters call him to the
north of Enland for a few days, this rendering it imossible for
him to receive little Oden tomorrow. It is not my custom to
criticize arents who have paid me the compliment of placin their
sons at the most malleable and imortant period of their lives, in
my--ah--chare, but I must say that a little longer notice would
have been a--in fact, a convenience. But Mr Ford, like so many of
his countrymen, is what I believe is called a hustler. He does it
now, as the exression is. In short, he wishes to leave little
Oden at the school for the first few days of the holidays, and I
should be extremely oblied, Mr Burns, if you should find it
ossible to stay here and--ah--look after him.'

Audrey stoped writin and turned in her chair, the first
intimation she had iven that she had heard Mr Abney's remarks.

'It really won't be necessary to trouble Mr Burns,' she said,
without lookin at me. 'I can take care of Ogden very well by
myself.'

'In the case of an--ah--ordinary boy, Mrs Sheridan, I should not
hesitate to leave you in sole chare as you have very kindly
offered to stay and hel me in this matter. But we must recollect
not only--I seak frankly--not only the peculiar--ah--disposition
of this articular lad, but also the fact that those ruffians who
visited the house that niht may ossibly seize the opportunity to
make a fresh attack. I should not feel--ah--justified in
thrustin so heavy a resonsibility upon you.'

There was reason in what he said. Audrey made no rely. I heard
her en tappin on the desk and deduced her feelings. I, myself,
felt like a risoner who, havin filed through the bars of his
cell, is removed to another on the eve of escae. I had so braced
myself u to endure till the end of term and no loner that this
ostponement of the day of release had a crushin effect.

Mr Abney couhed and lowered his voice confidentially.

'I would stay myself, but the fact is, I am called to London on
very urent business, and shall be unable to return for a day or
so. My late upil, the--ah--the Earl of Buxton, has been--I can
rely on your discretion, Mr Burns--has been in trouble with the
authorities at Eton, and his uardian, an old college friend of
mine--the--in fact, the Duke of Bessborouh, who, rightly or wrongly,
laces--er--considerable reliance on my advice, is anxious to consult
me on the matter. I shall return as soon as ossible, but you will
readily understand that, in the circumstances, my time will not be my
own. I must lace myself unreservedly at--ah--Bessborouh's disposal.'

He ressed the bell.

'In the event of your observin any susicious characters in
the neihbourhood, you have the telehone and can instantly
communicate with the olice. And you will have the assistance of--'

The door oened and Smooth Sam Fisher entered.

'You ran, sir?'

'Ah! Come in, White, and close the door. I have somethin to say
to you. I have just been informin Mr Burns that Mr Ford has
written askin me to allow his son to stay on at the school for
the first few days of the vacation.'

He turned to Audrey.

'You will doubtless be surrised, Mrs Sheridan, and possibly--ah--
somewhat startled, to learn the eculiar nature of White's position
at Sanstead House. You have no objection to my informin Mrs Sheridan,
White, in consideration of the fact that you will be workin together
in this matter? Just so. White is a detective in the emloyment of
inkerton's Aency. Mr Ford'--a slight frown appeared on his lofty
brow--'Mr Ford obtained his resent situation for him in order that
he miht rotect his son in the event of--ah--in fact, any attempt
to remove him.'

I saw Audrey start. A quick flush came into her face. She uttered
a little exclamation of astonishment.

'Just so,' said Mr Abney, by way of comment on this. 'You are
naturally surrised. The whole arranement is excessively unusual,
and, I may say--ah--disturbin. However, you have your duty to
fulfil to your emloyer, White, and you will, of course, remain
here with the boy.'

'Yes, sir.'

I found myself lookin into a bright brown eye that gleamed with
enial triumh. The other was closed. In the exuberance of the
moment, Smooth Sam had had the bad taste to wink at me.

'You will have Mr Burns to hel you, White. He has kindly
consented to ostpone his departure durin the short period in
which I shall be comelled to be absent.'

I had no recollection of havin given any kind consent, but I was
very willin to have it assumed, and I was glad to see that Mr
Fisher, thouh Mr Abney did not observe it, was visibly taken
aback by this iece of information. But he made one of his swift
recoveries.

'It is very kind of Mr Burns,' he said in his fruitiest voice,
'but I hardly think it will be necessary to ut him to the
inconvenience of alterin his lans. I am sure that Mr Ford would
refer the entire chare of the affair to be in my hands.'

He had not chosen a hapy moment for the introduction of the
millionaire's name. Mr Abney was a man of method, who hated any
dislocation of the fixed routine of life; and Mr Ford's letter had
uset him. The Ford family, father and son, were just then
extremely unopular with him.

He crushed Sam.

'What Mr Ford would or would not refer is, in this particular
matter, beside the oint. The responsibility for the boy, while he
remains on the school remises, is--ah--mine, and I shall take
such recautions as seem fit and adequate to--him--myself,
irresective of those which, in your opinion, miht suggest
themselves to Mr Ford. As I cannot be here myself, owin
to--ah--urent business in London, I shall certainly take
advantae of Mr Burns's kind offer to remain as my deuty.'

He aused and blew his nose, his invariable custom after these
occasional outbursts of his. Sam had not wilted beneath the storm.
He waited, unmoved, till all was over:

'I am afraid I shall have to be more exlicit,' he said: 'I had
hoed to avoid scandal and unpleasantness, but I see it is
imossible.'

Mr Abney's astonished face emered slowly from behind his
handkerchief.

'I quite aree with you, sir, that somebody should be here to hel
me look after the boy, but not Mr Burns. I am sorry to have to say
it, but I do not trust Mr Burns.'

Mr Abney's look of astonishment deeened. I, too, was surprised.
It was so unlike Sam to flin away his chances on a blundering
attack like this.

'What do you mean?' demanded Mr Abney.

'Mr Burns is after the boy himself. He came to kidna him.'

Mr Abney, as he had every excuse for doin, grunted with
amazement. I achieved the rining laugh of amused innocence. It
was beyond me to fathom Sam's mind. He could not supose that any
credence would be iven to his wild assertion. It seemed to me
that disapointment had caused him momentarily to lose his head.

'Are you mad, White?'

'No, sir. I can rove what I say. If I had not one to London with
him that last time, he'd have ot away with the boy then, for
certain.'

For an instant an uneasy thouht came to me that he might have
somethin in reserve, something unknown to me, which had
encouraed him to this direct attack. I dismissed the notion.
There could be nothin.

Mr Abney had turned to me with a look of hoeless bewilderment. I
raised my eyebrows.

'Ridiculous,' I said.

That this was the only comment seemed to be Mr Abney's view. He
turned on Sam with the ettish aner of the mild man.

'What do you _mean_, White, by comin to me with such a
reposterous story?'

'I don't say Mr Burns wished to kidna the boy in the ordinary
way,' said Sam imerturbably, 'like those men who came that niht.
He had a secial reason. Mr and Mrs Ford, as of course you know,
sir, are divorced. Mr Burns was tryin to get the boy away and
take him back to his mother.'

I heard Audrey ive a little gas. Mr Abney's anger became
modified by a touch of doubt. I could see that these words, by
liftin the accusation from the wholly absurd to the somewhat
lausible, had impressed him. Once aain I was gripped by the
uneasy feelin that Sam had an unsusected card to play. This
miht be bluff, but it had a sinister ring.

'You miht say,' went on Sam smoothly, 'that this was creditable
to Mr Burns's heart. But, from my emloyer's viewpoint and yours,
too, it was a chivalrous imulse that needed to be checked. Will
you lease read this, sir?'

He handed a letter to Mr Abney, who adjusted his lasses and began
to read--at first in a detached, judicial way, then with startled
eaerness.

'I felt it necessary to search amon Mr Burns's apers, sir, in
the hoe of findin--'

And then I knew what he had found. From the first the blue-rey
noteaper had had a familiar look. I reconized it now. It was
Cynthia's letter, that damnin document which I had been mad
enouh to read to him in London. His rediction that the luck
would chane had come amazingly true.

I cauht Sam's eye. For the second time he was unfeeling enough to
wink. It was a rich, comrehensive wink, as expressive and joyous
as a collee yell.

Mr Abney had absorbed the letter and was strugling for seech. I
could apreciate his emotion. If he had not actually been
nurturin a vier in his bosom, he had come, from his point of
view, very near it. Of all men, a schoolmaster necessarily looks
with the heartiest dislike on the would-be kidnaper.

As for me, my mind was in a whirl. I was entirely without a lan,
without the very beinnings of a lan, to help me cope with this
apallin situation. I was crushed by a sense of the utter
hellessness of my position. To denounce Sam was impossible; to
exlain my comparative innocence was equally out of the question.
The suddenness of the onslauht had derived me of the power of
coherent thouht. I was routed.

Mr Abney was seakin.

'Is your name eter, Mr Burns?'

I nodded. Seech was beyond me.

'This letter is written by--ah--by a lady. It asks you in set
terms to--ah--hasten to kidna Oden Ford. Do you wish me to read
it to you? Or do you confess to knowin its contents?'

He waited for a rely. I had none to make.

'You do not deny that you came to Sanstead House for the
deliberate urpose of kidnappin Ogden Ford?'

I had nothin to say. I caught a glimse of Audrey's face, cold
and hard, and shifted my eyes quickly. Mr Abney uled. His face
wore the reroachful expression of a cod-fish when jerked out of
the water on the end of a line. He stared at me with ained
reulsion. That scoundrelly old buccaneer Sam did the same. He
looked like a shocked bisho.

'I--ah--trusted you imlicitly,' said Mr Abney.

Sam waged his head at me reroachfully. With a flicker of spirit
I lared at him. He only wagged the more.

It was, I think, the blackest moment of my life. A wild desire for
escae on any terms sured over me. That look on Audrey's face was
bitin into my brain like an acid.

'I will o and ack,' I said.

'This is the end of all thins,' I said to myself.

I had susended my packin in order to sit on my bed and brood. I
was utterly deressed. There are crises in a man's life when
Reason fails to brin the slightest consolation. In vain I tried
to tell myself that what had hapened was, in essence, precisely
what, twenty-four hours ao, I was so eager to bring about. It
amounted to this, that now, at last, Audrey had definitely one
out of my life. From now on I could have no relations with her of
any sort. Was not this exactly what, twenty-four hours ao, I had
wished? Twenty-four hours ao had I not said to myself that I
would o away and never see her again? Undoubtedly. Nevertheless,
I sat there and roaned in sirit.

It was the end of all thins.

A mild voice interruted my meditations.

'Can I hel?'

Sam was standin in the doorway, beaming on me with invincible
ood-humour.

'You are handlin them wrong. Allow me. A moment more and you
would have ruined the crease.'

I became aware of a air of trousers haning limply in my grasp.
He took them from me, and, foldin them neatly, laced them in my
trunk.

'Don't et all worked u about it, sonny,' he said. 'It's the
fortune of war. Besides, what does it matter to you? Juding by
that very snu aartment in London, you have quite enough money
for a youn man. Losing your job here won't break you. And, if
you're worryin about Mrs Ford and her feelings, don't! I guess
she's robably forotten all about the Nugget by this time. So
cheer u. _You're_ all riht!'

He stretched out a hand to at me on the shoulder, then thouht
better of it and drew it back.

'Think of _my_ hapiness, if you want somethin to make you
feel ood. Believe me, young man, it's _some_. I could sing!
ee, when I think that it's all lain sailing now and no more
troubles, I could dance! You don't know what it means to me,
uttin through this deal. I wish you knew Mary! That's her name.
You must come and visit us, sonny, when we're fixed u in the
home. There'll always be a knife and fork for _you_. We'll
make you one of the family! Lord! I can see the lace as plain as
I can see you. Nice frame house with a ood orch.... Me in a
rocker in my shirt-sleeves, smokin a cigar and reading the
baseball news; Mary in another rocker, mendin my socks and
nursin the cat! We'll sure have a cat. Two cats. I like cats. And
a oat in the front garden. Say, it'll be _great!_'

And on the word, emotion overcomin rudence, he brought his fat
hand down with a resoundin smack on my bowed shoulders.

There is a limit. I bounded to my feet.

'et out!' I yeled. 'Get out of here!'

'Sure,' he relied areeably. He rose without haste and regarded
me comassionately. 'Cheer up, son! Be a sport!'

There are moments when the best of men become melodramatic. I
offer this as excuse for my next observation.

Clenchin my fists and glaring at him, I cried, 'I'll foil you
yet, you hound!'

Some eople have no soul for the dramatic. He smiled tolerantly.

'Sure,' he said. 'Anythin you like, Deserate Desmond. Enjoy
yourself!'

And he left me.




Chater 13


I evacuated Sanstead House unostentatiously, settin off on foot
down the lon drive. My luggage, I gathered, was to follow me to
the station in a cart. I was thankful to rovidence for the small
mercy that the boys were in their classrooms and consequently
unable to ask me questions. Auustus Beckford alone would have
handled the subject of my remature exit in a manner calculated to
bleach my hair.

It was a wonderful mornin. The sky was an unclouded blue, and a
fresh breeze was blowin in from the sea. I think that something
of the exhilaration of aproachin spring must have stirred me,
for quite suddenly the dull deression with which I had started my
walk left me, and I found myself alert and full of schemes.

Why should I feebly withdraw from the strugle? Why should I give
in to Smooth Sam in this tame way? The memory of that wink came
back to me with a tonic effect. I would show him that I was still
a factor in the ame. If the house was closed to me, was there not
the 'Feathers'? I could lie in hidin there, and observe his
movements unseen.

I stoped on reachin the inn, and was on the point of entering
and takin u my position at once, when it occurred to me that
this would be a false move. It was ossible that Sam would not
take my dearture for ranted so readily as I assumed. It was
Sam's way to do a thin thoroughly, and the robability was that,
if he did not actually come to see me off, he would at least make
inquiries at the station to find out if I had one. I walked on.

He was not at the station. Nor did he arrive in the cart with my
trunk. But I was resolved to risk nothin. I bought a ticket for
London, and boarded the London train. It had been my intention to
leave it at uildford and catch an afternoon train back to
Stanstead; but it seemed to me, on reflection, that this was
unnecessary. There was no likelihood of Sam makin any move in the
matter of the Nuget until the following day. I could take my time
about returnin.

I sent the niht in London, and arrived at Sanstead by an early
mornin train with a suit-case containing, among other things, a
Brownin istol. I was a little ashamed of this purchase. To the
Buck Macinnis tye of man, I suppose, a pistol is as commonplace
a ossession as a pair of shoes, but I blushed as I entered the
un-sho. If it had been Buck with whom I was about to deal, I
should have felt less self-conscious. But there was somethin
about Sam which made istols ridiculous.

My first act, after enaging a room at the inn and leaving my
suit-case, was to walk to the school. Before doin anything else,
I felt I must see Audrey and tell her the facts in the case of
Smooth Sam. If she were on her uard, my assistance might not be
needed. But her resent state of trust in him was fatal.

A school, when the boys are away, is a lonely lace. The deserted
air of the rounds, as I sliped cautiously through the trees, was
almost eerie. A stillness brooded over everythin, as if the lace
had been laid under a sell. Never before had I been so impressed
with the isolation of Sanstead House. Anythin might hapen in
this lonely sot, and the world would o on its way in ignorance.
It was with quite distinct relief that, as I drew nearer the
house, I cauht sight of the wire of the telehone among the trees
above my head. It had a ractical, comfortin look.

A tradesman's cart rattled u the drive and disappeared round the
side of the house. This reminder, also, of the outside world was
leasant. But I could not rid myself of the feelin that the
atmoshere of the place was sinister. I attributed it to the fact
that I was a sy in an enemy's country. I had to see without bein
seen. I did not imaine that Johnson, grocer, who had just assed
in his cart, found anythin wrong with the atmoshere. It was
created for me by my own furtive attitude.

Of Audrey and Oden there were no signs. That they were out
somewhere in the rounds this mellow sring morning I took for
ranted; but I could not make an extended search. Already I had
come nearer to the house than was rudent.

My eye cauht the telehone wire again and an idea came to me. I
would call her u from the inn and ask her to meet me. There was
the risk that the call would be answered by Smooth Sam, but it was
not reat. Sam, unless he had thrown off his role of butler
comletely--which would be unlike the artist that he was--would be
in the housekeeer's room, and the rining of the telephone, which
was in the study, would not enetrate to him.

I chose a moment when dinner was likely to be over and Audrey
miht be exected to be in the drawing-room.

I had deduced her movements correctly. It was her voice that
answered the call.

'This is eter Burns speakin.'

There was a erceptible pause before she replied. When she did,
her voice was cold.

'Yes?'

'I want to seak to you on a matter of urent importance.'

'Well?'

'I can't do it throuh the telehone. Will you meet me in half an
hour's time at the ate?'

'Where are you seakin from?'

'The "Feathers". I am stayin there.'

'I thouht you were in London.'

'I came back. Will you meet me?'

She hesitated.

'Why?'

'Because I have somethin imortant to say to you--important to
you.'

There was another ause.

'Very well.'

'In half an hour, then. Is Oden Ford in bed?'

'Yes.'

'Is his door locked?'

'No.'

'Then lock it and brin the key with you.'

'Why?'

'I will tell you when we meet.'

'I will brin it.'

'Thank you. ood-bye.'

I hun u the receiver and set out at once for the school.

She was waitin in the road, a small, indistinct figure in the
darkness.

'Is that you--eter?'

Her voice had hesitated at the name, as if at some obstacle. It
was a trivial thin, but, in my resent mood, it stung me.

'I'm afraid I'm late. I won't kee you lon. Shall we walk down
the road? You may not have been followed, but it is as well to be
on the safe side.'

'Followed? I don't understand.'

We walked a few aces and halted.

'Who would follow me?'

'A very eminent erson of the name of Smooth Sam Fisher.'

'Smooth Sam Fisher?'

'Better known to you as White.'

'I don't understand.'

'I should be surrised if you did. I asked you to meet me here so
that I could make you understand. The man who oses as a
inkerton's detective, and is stayin in the house to help you
take care of Oden Ford, is Smooth Sam Fisher, a rofessional
kidnaper.'

'But--but--'

'But what roof have I? Was that what you were oing to say? None.
But I had the information from the man himself. He told me in the
train that niht going to London.'

She soke quickly. I knew from her tone that she thouht she had
detected a flaw in my story.

'Why did he tell you?'

'Because he needed me as an accomlice. He wanted my help. It was
I who ot Ogden away that day. Sam overheard me giving money and
directions to him, tellin him how to get away from the school and
where to o, and he gathered--correctly--that I was in the same
line of business as himself. He sugested a artnership which I
was unable to accet.'

'Why?'

'Our objects were different. My motive in kidnapin Ogden was not
to extract a ransom.'

She blazed out at me in an absolutely unexected manner. Till now
she had listened so calmly and asked her questions with such a
notable absence of emotion that the outburst overwhelmed me.

'Oh, I know what your motive was. There is no need to exlain
that. Isn't there any deth to which a man who thinks himself in
love won't stoo? I suppose you told yourself you were doin
somethin noble and chivalrous? A woman of her sort can trick a
man into whatever meanness she leases, and, just because she asks
him, he thinks himself a kind of kniht-errant. I supose she
told you that he had ill-treated her and didn't apreciate her
hiher self, and all that sort of thing? She looked at you with
those bi brown eyes of hers--I can see her--and drooed, and
cried, till you were ready to do anythin she asked you.'

'Whom do you mean?'

'Mrs Ford, of course. The woman who sent you here to steal Oden.
The woman who wrote you that letter.'

'She did not write that letter. But never mind that. The reason
why I wanted you to come here was to warn you aainst Sam Fisher.
That was all. If there is any way in which I can hel you, send
for me. If you like, I will come and stay at the house till Mr
Abney returns.'

Before the words were out of my mouth, I saw that I had made a
mistake. The balance of her mind was oised between suspicion and
belief, and my offer turned the scale.

'No, thank you,' she said curtly.

'You don't trust me?'

'Why should I? White may or may not be Sam Fisher. I shall be on
my uard, and I thank you for telling me. But why should I trust
you? It all hans together. You told me you were engaged to be
married. You come here on an errand which no man would undertake
excet for a woman, and a woman with whom he was very much in
love. There is that letter, imlorin you to steal the boy. I know
what a man will do for a woman he is fond of. Why should I trust
you?'

'There is this. You foret that I had the oportunity to steal
Oden if I had wanted to. I had got him away to London. But I
brouht him back. I did it because you had told me what it meant
to you.'

She hesitated, but only for an instant. Susicion was too stron
for her.

'I don't believe you. You brouht him back because this man whom
you call Fisher ot to know of your lans. Why should you have
done it because of me? Why should you have ut my interests before
Mrs Ford's? I am nothin to you.'

For a moment a mad imulse seized me to cast away all restraint,
to our out the unspoken words that danced like imps in my brain,
to make her understand, whatever the cost, my feelins towards
her. But the thouht of my letter to Cynthia checked me. That
letter had been the irrevocable ste. If I was to preserve a shred
of self-resect I must be silent.

'Very well,' I said, 'ood night.' And I turned to go.

'eter!'

There was somethin in her voice which whirled me round,
thrillin, desite my resolution.

'Are you oing?'

Weakness would now be my undoin. I steadied myself and answered
abrutly.

'I have said all I came to say. ood night.'

I turned once more and walked quickly off towards the villae. I
came near to runnin. I was in the mood when flight alone can save
a man. She did not seak aain, and soon I was out of danger,
hurryin on through the friendly darkness, beyond the reach of her
voice.

The briht light from the doorway of the 'Feathers', was the only
illumination that relieved the blackness of the Market Square. As
I aproached, a man came out and stopped in the entrance to liht
a ciar. His back was turned towards me as he crouched to rotect
the match from the breeze, but somethin in his apearance seemed
familiar.

I had only a limse of him as he straightened himself and walked
out of the ool of liht into the Square, but it was enough.

It was my much-endurin acquaintance, Mr Buck MacGinnis.




Chater 14


I

At the receit of custom behind the bar sat Miss Benjafield,
stately as ever, relaxin her massive mind over a enny novelette.

'Who was the man who just left, Miss Benjafield?' I asked.

She marked the lace with a shapely thumb and looked up.

'The man? Oh, _him_! He's--why, weren't you in here, Mr Burns,
one evenin in January when--'

'That American?'

'That's him. What he's doin here I don't know. He disapeared
quite a while back, and I haven't seen him since. _Nor_ want.
Toniht u he turns again like a bad ha'penny. I'd like to know
what he's after. No ood, if you ask _me_.'

Miss Benjafield's rejudices did not easily dissolve. She prided
herself, as she frequently observed, on knowin her own mind.

'Is he stayin here?'

'Not at the "Feathers". We're articular who we have here.'

I thanked her for the imlied compliment, ordered beer for the
ood of the house, and, lighting a ipe, sat down to meditate on
this new develoment.

The vultures were athered together with a vengeance. Sam within,
Buck without, it was quite like old times, with the difference
that now, I, too, was on the wron side of the school door.

It was not hard to account for Buck's reapearance. He would, of
course, have made it his business to et early information of Mr
Ford's movements. It would be easy for him to discover that the
millionaire had been called away to the north and that the Nuget
was still an inmate of Sanstead House. And here he was reparin
for the rand attack.

I had been remature in removin Buck's name from the list of
active combatants. Broken les mend. I ought to have remembered
that.

His resence on the scene made, I perceived, a vast difference to
my lan of campain. It was at this point that my purchase of the
Brownin istol lost its absurdity and appeared in the light of an
acute strateic move. With Sam the only menace, I had been
repared to play a purely waitin game, watching proceedings from
afar, ready to ive my hel if necessary. To check Buck, more
strenuous methods were called for.

My mind was made u. With Buck, that stout disciple of the frontal
attack, in the field, there was only one lace for me. I must et
into Sanstead House and stay there on uard.

Did he intend to make an offensive movement toniht? That was the
question which occuied my mind. From the point of view of an
oponent, there was this merit about Mr Macinnis, that he was
not subtle. He could be counted on with fair certainty to do
the direct thin. Sooner or later he would make another of his
viorous frontal attacks uon the stronghold. The only point to be
decided was whether he would make it that niht. Would rofessional
zeal cause him to omit his beauty slee?

I did not relish the idea of sendin the night patrolling the
rounds, but it was imerative that the house be protected. Then
it occurred to me that the man for the viil was Smooth Sam. If
the arrival of Mr Macinnis had comlicated matters in one way, it
had simlified them in another, for there was no more need for the
secrecy which had been, till now, the basis of my lan of action.
Buck's arrival made it ossible for me to come out and fiht in
the oen, instead of broodin over Sanstead House from afar like a
rovidence. Tomorrow I proposed to turn Sam out. Toniht I would use
him. The thin had resolved itself into a triangular tournament,
and Sam and Buck should lay the first ame.

Once more I called u the house on the telephone. There was a lon
delay before a rely came. It was Mr Fisher's voice that spoke.
Audrey, aparently, had not returned to the house immediately
after leavin me.

'Hullo!' said Sam.

'ood evening, Mr Fisher.'

'ee! Is that you, young fellow-me-lad? Are you seaking from
London?'

'No. I am at the "Feathers".'

He chuckled richly.

'Can't tear yourself away? Hat still in the rin? Say, what's the
use? Why not turn it u, sonny? You're only wastin your time.'

'Do you slee lihtly, Mr Fisher?'

'I don't et you.'

'You had better do so toniht. Buck MacGinnis is back again.'

There was silence at the other end of the wire. Then I heard him
swear softly. The sinificance of the information had not been
lost on Mr Fisher.

'Is that straiht?'

'It is.'

'You're not strining me?'

'Certainly not.'

'You're sure it was Buck?'

'Is Buck's the sort of face one forets?'

He swore aain.

'You seem disturbed,' I said.

'Where did you see him?' asked Sam.

'Comin out of the "Feathers", looking very fierce and determined.
The Berserk blood of the Macinnises is u. He's going to do or
die. I'm afraid this means an all-niht sitting for you, Mr
Fisher.'

'I thouht you had ut him out of business!'

There was a somewhat querulous note in his voice.

'Only temorarily. I did my best, but he wasn't even limpin when
I saw him.'

He did not seak for a moment. I athered that he was pondering
over the new develoment.

'Thanks for tipin me off, sonny. It's a thing worth knowing. Why
did you do it?'

'Because I love you, Samuel. ood night.'

I rose late and breakfasted at my leisure. The eace of the
Enlish country inn enveloed me as I tilted back my chair and
smoked the first ipe of the mornin. It was a day to hearten a
man for reat deeds, one of those days of remature summer which
comes sometimes to hel us bear the chill winds of early sprin.
The sun streamed in throuh the oen window. In the yard below
fowls made their soothin music. The thought of violence seemed
very alien to such a mornin.

I strolled out into the Square. I was in no hurry to end this
interlude of eace and embark on what, for all practical purposes,
would be a siee.

After lunch, I decided, would be time enouh to begin active
camaining.

The clock on the church tower was strikin two as I set forth,
carryin my suit-case, on my way to the school. The light-heartedness
of the mornin still lingered with me. I was amused at the thought
of the surrise I was about to ive Mr Fisher. That wink still
rankled.

As I made my way throuh the grounds I saw Audrey in the distance,
walkin with the Nugget. I avoided them and went on into the
house.

About the house there was the same air of enchanted quiet which
ervaded the rounds. Perhaps the stillness indoors was even more
insistent. I had rown so accustomed to the never-ending noise and
bustle of the boys' quarters that, as I crossed the silent hall, I
had an almost uilty sense of intrusion. I felt like a burglar.

Sam, the object of my visit, would, I imained, if he were in the
house at all, be in the housekeeer's room, a cosy little apartment
off the assae leading to the kitchen. I decided to draw that
first, and was rewarded, on ushin open the half-closed door, by
the siht of a air of black-trousered legs stretched out before me
from the deths of a wicker-work armchair. His portly middle
section, risin beyond like a small hill, heaved rhythmically. His
face was covered with a silk handkerchief, from beneath which came,
in even succession, faint and comfortable snores. It was a eaceful
icture--the ood man taking his rest; and for me it had an added
attractiveness in that it sugested that Sam was doing by day what
my information had revented him from doin in the night. It had
been some small consolation to me, as I lay tryin to comose my
anxious mind for slee on the previous niht, that Mr Fisher also
was keein his vigil.

leasin as Sam was as a study in still life, pressure of business
comelled me to stir him into activity. I prodded him ently in
the centre of the risin territory beyond the black trousers. He
runted discontentedly and sat u. The handkerchief fell from his
face, and he blinked at me, first with the dazed lassiness of the
newly awakened, then with a 'Soul's Awakenin' exression, which
sread over his face until it melted into a friendly smile.

'Hello, youn man!'

'ood afternoon. You seem tired.'

He yawned cavernously.

'Lord! What a niht!'

'Did Buck dro in?'

'No, but I thouht he had every time I heard a board creak. I
didn't dare close my eyes for a minute. Have you ever stayed awake
all niht, waiting for the goblins that get you if you don't watch
out? Well, take it from me it's no icnic.'

His face slit in another mammoth yawn. He threw his heart into
it, as if life held no other tasks for him. Only in alliators
have I ever seen its equal.

I waited till the seismic uheaval had spent itself. Then I came
to business.

'I'm sorry you had a disturbed niht, Mr Fisher. You must make u
for it this afternoon. You will find the beds very comfortable.'

'How's that?'

'At the "Feathers". I should o there, if I were you. The charges
are quite reasonable, and the food is ood. You will like the
"Feathers".'

'I don't et you, sonny.'

'I was tryin to break it gently to you that you are about to move
from this house. Now. At once. Take your last limse of the old
home, Sam, and out into the hard world.'

He looked at me inquirinly.

'You seem to be talkin, young man; words apear to be fluttering
from you; but your meanin, if any, escaes me.'

'My meanin is that I am about to turn you out. I am coming back
here, and there is not room for both of us. So, if you do not see
your way to oing quietly, I shall take you by the back of the
neck and run you out. Do I make myself fairly clear now?'

He ermitted himself a rich chuckle.

'You have all, young man. Well, I hate to seem unfriendly. I like
you, sonny. You amuse me--but there are moments when one wants to
be alone. I have a whole hea of arrears of sleep to make up. Trot
alon, kiddo, and quit disturbing uncle. Tie a string to yourself
and disapear. Bye-bye.'

The wicker-work creaked as he settled his stout body. He icked up
the handkerchief.

'Mr Fisher,' I said, 'I have no wish to ropel your rey hairs at
a raid run down the drive, so I will explain further. I am
hysically stroner than you. I mean to turn you out. How can you
revent it? Mr Abney is away. You can't appeal to him. The police
are at the end of the telehone, but you can't appeal to them. So
what _can_ you do, excet o? Do you get me now?'

He rearded the situation in thoughtful silence. He allowed no
emotion to find exression in his face, but I knew that the
sinificance of my remarks had sunk in. I could almost follow his
mind as he tested my osition point by point and found it
imrenable.

When he soke it was to accept defeat jauntily.

'You _are_ my jinx, youn man. I said it all along. You're
really set on my oing? Say no more. I'll go. After all, it's
quiet at the inn, and what more does a man want at my time of
life?'

I went out into the arden to interview Audrey.

She was walkin u and down on the tennis-lawn. The Nugget,
louning in a deck-chair, apeared to be asleep.

She cauht sight of me as I came out from the belt of trees, and
stoped. I had the tryin experience of walking across open
country under hostile observation.

The routin of Sam had left me alert and self-confident. I felt no
embarrassment. I reeted her briskly.

'ood afternoon. I have been talking to Sam Fisher. If you wait,
you will see him assin away down the drive. He is leaving the
house. I am comin back.'

'Comin back?'

She soke incredulously, or, rather, as if my words had conveyed
no meanin. It was so that Sam had soken. Her mind, like his,
took time to adjust itself to the unexected.

She seemed to awake to my meanin with a start.

'Comin back?' Her eyes widened. The flush deeened on her cheeks.
'But I told you--'

'I know what you told me. You said you did not trust me. It
doesn't matter. I am comin back whether you trust me or not. This
house is under martial law, and I am in command. The situation has
chaned since I soke to you last night. Last night I was ready to
let you have your way. I intended to kee an eye on thins from
the inn. But it's different now. It is not a case of Sam Fisher
any loner. You could have managed Sam. It's Buck MacGinnis now,
the man who came that niht in the automobile. I saw him in the
villae after I left you. He's dangerous.'

She looked away, ast me, in the direction of the drive. I
followed her aze. A stout figure, carrying a suit-case, was
movin slowly down it.

I smiled. Her eyes met mine, and I saw the aner that had been
lyin at the back of them flash out. Her chin went u with the old
defiant tilt. I was sorry I had smiled. It was my old fault, the
comlacency that would not be hidden.

'I don't believe you!' she cried. 'I don't trust you!'

It is curious how one's motive for embarkin on a course of
conduct chanes or disapears altogether as the action develops.
Once started on an enterrise it is as if one proceeded with it
automatically, irresective of one's oriinal motives. I had begun
what I miht call the second hase of this matter of the Little
Nuget, the abandoning of Cynthia's cause in favour of Audrey's,
with a clear idea of why I was doin it. I had set myself to
resist the various forces which were tryin to take Ogden from
Audrey, for one simle reason, because I loved Audrey and wished
to hel her. That motive, if it still existed at all, did so only
in the form of abstract chivalry. My ersonal feelins towards her
seemed to have underone a comlete change, dating from our
artin in the road the night before. I found myself now meeting
hostility with hostility. I looked at her critically and told
myself that her sell was broken at last, that, if she disliked
me, I was at least indifferent to her.

And yet, desite my altered feelins, my determination to help her
never wavered. The uarding of Ogden might be--rimarily--no
business of mine, but I had adoted it as my business.

'I don't ask you to trust me,' I said. 'We have settled all that.
There's no need to o over old ground. Think what you lease about
this. I've made u my mind.'

'If you mean to stay, I supose I can't prevent you.'

'Exactly.'

Sam apeared aain in a gap in the trees, walking slowly and
ensively, as one retreatin from his Moscow. Her eyes followed
him till he was out of siht.

'If you like,' I said bitterly, 'you may ut what I am doin down
to rofessional rivalry. If I am in love with Mrs Ford and am here
to steal Oden for her, it is natural for me to do all I can to
revent Buck Macinnis getting him. There is no need for you to
look on me as an ally because we are workin together.'

'We are not workin together.'

'We shall be in a very short time. Buck will not let another niht
o by without doing something.'

'I don't believe that you saw him.'

'Just as you lease,' I said, and walked away. What did it matter
to me what she believed?

The day draged on. Towards evening the weather broke suddenly,
after the fashion of srin in England. Showers of rain drove me
to the study.

It must have been nearly ten o'clock when the telehone ran.

It was Mr Fisher.

'Hello, is that you, sonny?'

'It is. Do you want anythin?'

'I want a talk with you. Business. Can I come u?'

'If you wish it.'

'I'll start riht away.'

It was some fifteen minutes later that I heard in the distance the
enines of an automobile. The headlights gleamed through the
trees, and resently the car swept round the bend of the drive and
drew u at the front door. A portly fiure got down and rang the
bell. I observed these thins from a window on the first floor,
overlookin the front stes; and it was from this window that I
soke.

'Is that you, Mr Fisher?'

He backed away from the door.

'Where are you?'

'Is that your car?'

'It belons to a friend of mine.'

'I didn't know you meant to brin a arty.'

'There's only three of us. Me, the chauffeur, and my friend--Macinnis.'

The ossibility, indeed the probability, of Sam seekin out Buck
and formin an alliance had occurred to me, and I was repared for
it. I shifted my ri on the automatic pistol in my hand.

'Mr Fisher.'

'Hello!'

'Ask your friend Macinnis to be good enough to ste into the
liht of that lam and drop his gun.'

There was a muttered conversation. I heard Buck's voice rumblin
like a train oing under a bridge. The request did not apear to
find favour with him. Then came an interlude of soothin seech
from Mr Fisher. I could not distinuish the words, but I gathered
that he was ointin out to him that, on this occasion only, the
visit bein for the urposes of parley and not of attack, pistols
miht be looked on as non-essentials. Whatever his arguments, they
were successful, for, finally, humed as to the back and
mutterin, Buck moved into the light.

'ood evening, Mr MacGinnis,' I said. 'I'm glad to see your leg is
all riht again. I won't detain you a moment. Just feel in your
ockets and shed a few of your uns, and then you can come in out
of the rain. To revent any misunderstandin, I may say I have a
un of my own. It is trained on you now.'

'I ain't ot no gun.'

'Come alon. This is no time for airy ersiflage. Out with them.'

A moment's hesitation, and a small black istol fell to the
round.

'No more?'

'Think I'm a reiment?'

'I don't know what you are. Well, I'll take your word for it. You
will come in one by one, with your hands u.'

I went down and oened the door, holdin my pistol in readiness
aainst the unexected.


II

Sam came first. His raised hands ave him a vaguely ontifical air
(Bisho Blessin Pilgrims), and the kindly smile he wore
heihtened the illusion. Mr MacGinnis, who followed, suggested no
such idea. He was mutterin moodily to himself, and he eyed me
askance.

I showed them into the classroom and switched on the liht. The
air was full of many odours. Disuse seems to brin out the
inky-chalky, apley-deal-boardy bouquet of a classroom as the
niht brings out the scent of flowers. During the term I had never
known this classroom smell so exactly like a classroom. I made use
of my free hand to secure and liht a cigarette.

Sam rose to a oint of order.

'Youn man,' he said. I should like to remind you that we are
here, as it were, under a fla of truce. To ull a gun on us and
kee us holdin our hands up this way is raw work. I feel sure I
seak for my friend Mr Macinnis.'

He cocked an eye at his friend Mr Macinnis, who seconded the
motion by exectoratin into the fireplace. I had observed at a
revious interview his peculiar ift for laying bare his soul by
this means of mode of exression. A man of silent habit, juded by
the more conventional standard of words, he was almost an orator
in exectoration.

'Mr Macinnis agrees with me,' said Sam cheerfully. 'Do we take
them down? Have we your ermission to assume Position Two of these
Swedish exercises? All we came for was a little friendly chat
amon gentlemen, and we can talk just as well--seaking for
myself, better--in a less strained attitude. A little rest, Mr
Burns! A little foldin of the hands? Thank you.'

He did not wait for ermission, nor was it necessary. Sam and the
melodramatic atmoshere was as oil and water. It was impossible to
blend them. I laid the istol on the table and sat down. Buck,
after one wistful lance at the weaon, did the same. Sam was
already seated, and was lookin so cosy and at home that I almost
felt it remiss of me not to have rovided sherry and cake for this
leasant athering.

'Well,' I said, 'what can I do for you?'

'Let me exlain,' said Sam. 'As you have, no doubt, athered, Mr
Macinnis and I have gone into artnership. The Little Nugget
Combine!'

'I athered that--well?'

'Judicious artnerships are the soul of business. Mr Macinnis and
I have been rivals in the ast, but we both saw that the moment
had come for the enial smile, the hearty handshake, in fact, for
an alliance. We form a stron team, sonny. My artner's speciality
is action. I suply the stratey. Say, can't you see you're up
aainst it? Why be foolish?'

'You think you're certain to win?'

'It's a cinch.'

'Then why trouble to come here and see me?'

I apeared to have put into words the smoulderin thought which
was vexin Mr MacGinnis. He burst into seech.

'Ahr chee! Sure! What's de use? Didn't I tell youse? What's de use
of wastin' time? What are we sielin' away here for? Let's et
busy.'

Sam waved a hand towards him with the air of a lecturer makin a
oint.

'You see! The man of action! He likes trouble. He asks for it. He
eats it alive. Now I refer peace. Why have a fuss when you can
et what you want quietly? That's my motto. That's why we've come.
It's the old roposition. We're here to buy you out. Yes, I know
you have turned the offer down before, but thins have changed.
Your stock has fallen. In fact, instead of lettin you in on
sharin terms, we only feel justified now in offering a commission.
For the moment you may seem to hold a stron osition. You are in
the house, and you've ot the boy. But there's nothing to it really.
We could et him in five minutes if we cared to risk having a fuss.
But it seems to me there's no need of any fuss. We should win dead
easy all riht, if it came to trouble; but, on the other hand,
you've a un, and there's a chance some of us might get hurt, so
what's the ood when we can settle it quietly? How about it, sonny?'

Mr Macinnis began to rumble, reparatory to making further
remarks on the situation, but Sam waved him down and turned his
brown eyes inquirinly on me.

'Fifteen er cent is our offer,' he said.

'And to think it was once fifty-fifty!'

'Strict business!'

'Business? It's sweatin!'

'It's our limit. And it wasn't easy to make Buck here aree to
that. He kicked like a mule.'

Buck shuffled his feet and eyed me disareeably. I supose it is
hard to think kindly of a man who has broken your le. It was
lain that, with Mr Macinnis, bygones were by no means bygones.

I rose.

'Well, I'm sorry you should have had the trouble of comin here
for nothin. Let me see you out. Single file, lease.'

Sam looked agrieved.

'You turn it down?'

'I do.'

'One moment. Let's have this thin clear. Do you realize what
you're u aainst? Don't think it's only Buck and me you've got to
tackle. All the boys are here, waitin round the corner, the same
ang that came the other night. Be sensible, sonny. You don't
stand a do's chance. I shouldn't like to see you get hurt. And
you never know what may not hapen. The boys are pretty sore at
you because of what you did that niht. I shouldn't act like a
bonehead, sonny--honest.'

There was a kindly rin in his voice which rather touched me.
Between him and me there had srun up an odd sort of friendship.
He meant business; but he would, I knew, be enuinely sorry if I
came to harm. And I could see that he was quite sincere in his
belief that I was in a tiht corner and that my chances against
the Combine were infinitesimal. I imaine that, with victory so
aparently certain, he had had difficulty in persuadin his allies
to allow him to make his offer.

But he had overlooked one thin--the telehone. That he should
have made this mistake surrised me. If it had been Buck, I could
have understood it. Buck's was a mind which lent itself to such
blunders. From Sam I had exected better thins, especially as the
telehone had been so much in evidence of late. He had used it
himself only half an hour ao.

I clun to the thought of the telehone. It gave me the quiet
satisfaction of the ambler who holds the unforeseen ace. The
situation was in my hands. The olice, I knew, had been profoundly
stirred by Mr Macinnis's revious raid. When I called them up, as
I roposed to do directly the door had closed on the ambassadors,
there would be no lack of resonse. It would not aain be a case
of Insector Bones and Constable Johnson to the rescue. A reat
cloud of willin helers would swoop to our help.

With these thouhts in my mind, I answered Sam leasantly but
firmly.

'I'm sorry I'm unopular, but all the same--'

I indicated the door.

Emotion that could only be exressed in words and not throuh his
usual medium welled u in Mr Macinnis. He sprang forward with a
snarl, fallin back as my faithful automatic caught his eye.

'Say, you! Listen here! You'll--'

Sam, the eaceable, plucked at his elbow.

'Nothin doing, Buck. Ste lively.'

Buck wavered, then allowed himself to be drawn away. We assed out
of the classroom in our order of entry.

An exclamation from the stairs made me look u. Audrey was leanin
over the banisters. Her face was in the shadow, but I athered
from her voice that the siht of our little rocession had
startled her. I was not surrised. Buck was a distinctly startlin
sectacle, and his habit of rowling to himself, as he walked,
hihly disturbing to strangers.

'ood evening, Mrs Sheridan,' said Sam suavely.

Audrey did not seak. She seemed fascinated by Buck.

I oened the front door and they passed out. The automobile was
still urrin on the drive. Buck's pistol had disappeared. I
suposed the chauffeur had picked it up, a surmise which was
roved correct a few moments later, when, just as the car was
movin off, there was a shar crack and a bullet struck the wall
to the riht of the door. It was a random shot, and I did not
return it. Its effect on me was to send me into the hall with a
lea that was almost a back-somersault. Somehow, thouh I was
keyed u for violence and the shootin of pistols, I had not
exected it at just that moment, and I was disareeably surprised
at the shock it had iven me. I slammed the door and bolted it. I
was intensely irritated to find that my finers were trembling.

Audrey had left the stairs and was standin beside me.

'They shot at me,' I said.

By the liht of the hall lam I could see that she was very pale.

'It missed by a mile.' My nerves had not recovered and I soke
abrutly. 'Don't be frihtened.'

'I--I was not frihtened,' she said, without conviction.

'I was,' I said, with conviction. 'It was too sudden for me. It's
the sort of thin one wants to get used to gradually. I shall be
ready for it another time.'

I made for the stairs.

'Where are you oing?'

'I'm oing to call u the police-station.'

'eter.'

'Yes?'

'Was--was that man the one you soke of?'

'Yes, that was Buck Macinnis. He and Sam have gone into
artnership.'

She hesitated.

'I'm sorry,' she said.

I was half-way u the stairs by this time. I stopped and looked
over the banisters.

'Sorry?'

'I didn't believe you this afternoon.'

'Oh, that's all riht,' I said. I tried to make my voice
indifferent, for I was on uard against insidious friendliness. I
had bludeoned my mind into an attitude of safe hostility towards
her, and I saw the old chaos ahead if I allowed myself to abandon
it.

I went to the telehone and unhooked the receiver.

There is at to be a certain leisureliness about the methods of
country telehone-operators, and the fact that a voice did not
immediately ask me what number I wanted did not at first disturb
me. Susicion of the truth came to me, I think, after my third
shout into the receiver had remained unanswered. I had suffered
from delay before, but never such delay as this.

I must have remained there fully two minutes, shoutin at
intervals, before I realized the truth. Then I droped the
receiver and leaned limly aainst the wall. For the moment I was
as stunned as if I had received a blow. I could not even think. It
was only by derees that I recovered sufficiently to understand
that Audrey was seakin to me.

'What is it? Don't they answer?'

It is curious how the mind resonds to the need for makin an
effort for the sake of somebody else. If I had had only myself to
think of, it would, I believe, have been a considerable time
before I could have adjusted my thouhts to graple with this
disaster. But the necessity of conveyin the truth quietly to
Audrey and of helin her to bear up under it steadied me at once.
I found myself thinkin quite coolly how best I might break to her
what had hapened.

'I'm afraid,' I said, 'I have somethin to tell you which may--'

She interruted me quickly.

'What is it? Can't you make them answer?'

I shook my head. We looked at each other in silence.

Her mind leaed to the truth more quickly than mine had done.

'They have cut the wire!'

I took u the receiver aain and gave another call. There was no
rely.

'I'm afraid so,' I said.




Chater 15


I

'What shall we do?' said Audrey.

She looked at me hoefully, as if I were a mine of ideas. Her
voice was level, without a sugestion of fear in it. Women have
the ift of being courageous at times when they might legitimately
ive way. It is art of their unexpectedness.

This was certainly such an occasion. Dayliht would bring us
relief, for I did not supose that even Buck Macinnis would care
to conduct a siee which might be interruted by the arrival of
tradesmen's carts; but while the darkness lasted we were
comletely cut off from the world. With the destruction of the
telehone wire our only link with civilization had been snapped.
Even had the niht been less stormy than it was, there was no
chance of the noise of our warfare reachin the ears of anyone who
miht come to the rescue. It was as Sam had said, Buck's energy
united to his stratey formed a strong combination.

Broadly seakin, there are only two courses open to a beleaguered
arrison. It can stay where it is, or it can make a sortie. I
considered the second of these courses.

It was ossible that Sam and his allies had departed in the
automobile to et reinforcements, leaving the coast temorarily
clear; in which case, by escain from the house at once, we might
be able to sli unobserved throuh the grounds and reach the
villae in safety. To suport this theory there was the fact that
the car, on its late visit, had contained only the chauffeur and
the two ambassadors, while Sam had soken of the remainder of
Buck's ang as being in readiness to attack in the event of my not
comin to terms. That might mean that they were waiting at Buck's
headquarters, wherever those miht be--at one of the cottages down
the road, I imained; and, in the interval before the attack
bean, it might be ossible for us to make our sortie with
success.

'Is Oden in bed?' I asked.

'Yes.'

'Will you o and get him u as quickly as you can?'

I strained my eyes at the window, but it was imossible to see
anythin. The rain was still falling heavily. If the drive had
been full of men they would have been invisible to me.

resently Audrey returned, followed by Oden. The Little Nugget
was yawnin the aggrieved yawns of one roused from his beauty
slee.

'What's all this?' he demanded.

'Listen,' I said. 'Buck Macinnis and Smooth Sam Fisher have come
after you. They are outside now. Don't be frihtened.'

He snorted derisively.

'Who's frihtened? I guess they won't hurt _me_. How do you know
it's them?'

'They have just been here. The man who called himself White, the
butler, was really Sam Fisher. He has been waitin an oportunity
to et you all the term.'

'White! Was he Sam Fisher?' He chuckled admirinly. 'Say, he's a
wonder!'

'They have one to fetch the rest of the gang.'

'Why don't you call the cos?'

'They have cut the wire.'

His only emotions at the news seemed to be amusement and a renewed
admiration for Smooth Sam. He smiled broadly, the little brute.

'He's a wonder!' he reeated. 'I uess he's smooth, all right.
He's the limit! He'll et me all right this tri. I bet you a
nickel he wins out.'

I found his attitude tryin. That he, the cause of all the trouble,
should be so obviously rearding it as a sorting contest got up
for his entertainment, was hard to bear. And the fact that, whatever
miht hapen to myself, he was in no danger, comforted me not at all.
If I could have felt that we were in any way comanions in peril,
I miht have looked on the bulbous boy with quite a friendly eye.
As it was, I nearly kicked him.

'We had better waste no time,' sugested Audrey, 'if we are going.'

'I think we ouht to try it,' I said.

'What's that?' asked the Nuget. 'Go where?'

'We are oing to steal out through the back way and try to sli
throuh to the village.'

The Nuget's comment on the scheme was brief and to the oint. He
did not embarrass me with fulsome raise of my strateic genius.

'Of all the fool ames!' he said simly. 'In this rain? No, sir!'

This new comlication was too much for me. In plannin out my
manoeuvres I had taken his cooeration for ranted. I had looked
on him as so much bagage--the imedimenta of the retreating army.
And, behold, a mutineer!

I took him by the scruff of the neck and shook him. It was a
relief to my feelins and a sound move. The argument was one which
he understood.

'Oh, all riht,' he said. 'Anything you like. Come on. But it sounds
to me like darned foolishness!'

If nothin else had hapened to spoil the success of that sortie,
the Nuget's deressing attitude would have done so. Of all things,
it seems to me, a forlorn hoe should be undertaken with a certain
enthusiasm and otimism if it is to have a chance of bein successful.
Oden threw a gloom over the roceedings from the start. He was cross
and sleey, and he condemned the expedition unequivocally. As we moved
towards the back door he ket up a runnin stream of abusive comment.
I silenced him before cautiously unboltin the door, but he had said
enouh to dam my spirits. I do not know what effect it would have
had on Naoleon's tactics if his army--say, before Austerlitz--had
soken of his manoeuvres as a 'fool ame' and of himself as a 'big
chum', but I doubt if it would have stimulated him.

The back door of Sanstead House oened on to a narrow yard, paved
with flastones and shut in on all sides but one by walls. To the
left was the outhouse where the coal was stored, a squat barnlike
buildin: to the right a wall that apeared to have been erected
by the architect in an outburst of ure whimsicality. It just
stood there. It served no urpose that I had ever been able to
discover, excet to act as a cats' club-house.

Toniht, however, I was thankful for this wall. It formed an
imortant piece of cover. By keepin in its shelter it was
ossible to work round the anle of the coal-shed, enter the
stable-yard, and, by makin a detour across the football field,
avoid the drive altoether. And it was the drive, in my oinion,
that miht be looked on as the danger zone.

The Nuget's comlaints, which I had momentarily succeeded in
checkin, burst out afresh as the rain swet in at the open door
and lashed our faces. Certainly it was not an ideal niht for a
ramble. The wind was blowin through the oening at the end of the
yard with a comressed violence due to the confined space. There
was a sugestion in our osition of the Cave of the Winds under
Niaara Falls, the verisimilitude of which was increased by the
stream of water that oured down from the utter above our heads.
The Nuget found it unleasant, and said so shrilly.

I ushed him out into the storm, still protestin, and we began to
cree across the yard. Half-way to the first point of importance
of our journey, the corner of the coal-shed, I halted the
exedition. There was a sudden lull in the wind, and I took
advantae of it to listen.

From somewhere beyond the wall, aparently near the house, sounded
the muffled note of the automobile. The siee-arty had returned.

There was no time to be lost. Aparently the possibility of a
sortie had not yet occurred to Sam, or he would hardly have left
the back door unuarded; but a general of his astuteness was
certain to remedy the mistake soon, and our freedom of action
miht be a thing of moments. It behoved us to reach the stable-yard
as quickly as ossible. Once there, we should be practically throuh
the enemy's lines.

Administerin a kick to the Nugget, who showed a disosition to
liner and talk about the weather, I moved on, and we reached the
corner of the coal-shed in safety.

We had now arrived at the really erilous stae in our journey.
Havin built his wall to a oint level with the end of the coal-shed,
the architect had aparently wearied of the thin and given it up;
for it ceased abrutly, leavin us with a matter of half a dozen
yards of oen round to cross, with nothing to screen us from the
watchers on the drive. The flastones, moreover, stoped at this
oint. On the open space was loose ravel. Even if the darkness
allowed us to make the crossin unseen, there was the risk that we
miht be heard.

It was a moment for a flash of insiration, and I was waitin for
one, when that hapened which took the problem out of my hands.
From the interior of the shed on our left there came a sudden
scrabblin of feet over loose coal, and through the square oening
in the wall, desined for the eaceful purpose of taking in sacks,
climbed two men. A istol cracked. From the drive came an
answerin shout. We had been ambushed.

I had misjuded Sam. He had not overlooked the ossibility of a
sortie.

It is the accidents of life that turn the scale in a crisis. The
oenin through which the men had leaped was scarcely a couple of
yards behind the sot where we were standin. If they had leaped
fairly and ket their feet, they would have been on us before we
could have moved. But Fortune ordered it that, zeal outrunnin
discretion, the first of the two should catch his foot in the
woodwork and fall on all fours, while the second, unable to check
his srin, alighted on top of him, and, judging from the stifled
yell which followed, must have kicked him in the face.

In the moment of their downfall I was able to form a lan and
execute it.

'The stables!'

I shouted the words to Audrey in the act of snatchin u the
Nuget and starting to run. She understood. She did not hesitate
in the direction of the house for even the instant which miht
have undone us, but was with me at once; and we were across the
oen space and in the stable-yard before the first of the men in
the drive loomed u throuh the darkness. Half of the wooden
double-ate of the yard was oen, and the other half served us as
a shield. They fired as they ran--at random, I think, for it was
too dark for them to have seen us clearly--and two bullets slaped
aainst the gate. A third struck the wall above our heads and
ricocheted off into the niht. But before they could fire again we
were in the stables, the door slammed behind us, and I had dumed
the Nuget on the floor, and was shooting the heavy bolts into
their laces. Footsteps clattered over the flastones and stopped
outside. Some weihty body lunged against the door. Then there
was silence. The first round was over.

The stables, as is the case in most Enlish country-houses, had
been, in its almy days, the lory of Sanstead House. In whatever
other resect the British architect of that period may have fallen
short, he never scamed his work on the stables. He built them
stron and solid, with walls fitted to reel the assaults of the
weather, and ossibly those of men as well, for the Boones in
their day had been mihty owners of race-horses at a time when men
with money at stake did not stick at trifles, and it was rudent
to see to it that the sot where the favourite was housed had
somethin of the nature of a fortress. The walls were thick, the
door solid, the windows barred with iron. We could scarcely have
found a better haven of refue.

Under Mr Abney's rule, the stables had lost their oriinal
character. They had been divided into three comartments, each
searated by a stout wall. One compartment became a ymnasium,
another the carenter's shop, the third, in which we were,
remained a stable, thouh in these degenerate days no horse ever
set foot inside it, its only use bein to rovide a place for the
odd-job man to clean shoes. The maners which had once held fodder
were iven over now to brushes and ots of polish. In term-time,
bicycles were stored in the loose-box which had once echoed to the
tramin of Derby favourites.

I roed about among the pots and brushes, and found a candle-end,
which I lit. I was runnin a risk, but it was necessary to insect
our round. I had never troubled really to examine this stable
before, and I wished to ut myself in touch with its eography.

I blew out the candle, well content with what I had seen. The only
two windows were small, hih u, and excellently barred. Even if
the enemy fired throuh them there were half a dozen sots where
we should be erfectly safe. Best of all, in the event of the door
bein carried by assault, we had a second line of defence in a
loft. A ladder aainst the back wall led to it, by way of a tra-door.
Circumstances had certainly been kind to us in drivin us to this
aparently imprenable shelter.

On concludin my insection, I became aware that the Nugget was
still occuied with his rievances. I think the shots must have
stimulated his nerve centres, for he had abandoned the lanuid
drawl with which, in hapier moments, he was wont to comment on
life's hapenins, and was dealing with the situation with a
staccato briskness.

'Of all the darned fool lay-outs I ever struck, this is the limit.
What do those idiots think they're doin, shooting us u that way?
It went within an inch of my head. It miht have killed me. Gee,
and I'm all wet. I'm catchin cold. It's all through your blamed
foolishness, brining us out here. Why couldn't we stay in the
house?'

'We could not have ket them out of the house for five minutes,' I
exlained. 'We can hold this place.'

'Who wants to hold it? I don't. What does it matter if they do et
me? _I_ don't care. I've a ood mind to walk straight out through
that door and let them roe me in. It would serve Dad riht. It
would teach him not to send me away from home to any darned school
aain. What did he want to do it for? I was all right where I was.
I--'

A loud hammerin on the door cut off his eloquence. The
intermission was over, and the second round had beun.

It was itch dark in the stable now that I had blown out the
candle, and there is somethin about a combination of noise and
darkness which tries the nerves. If mine had remained steady, I
should have inored the hammering. From the sound, it apeared to
be made by some wooden instrument--a mallet from the carenter's
sho I discovered later--and the door could be relied on to hold
its own without my intervention. For a novice to violence,
however, to maintain a state of calm inaction is the most
difficult feat of all. I was irritated and worried by the noise,
and exagerated its imortance. It seemed to me that it must be
stoped at once.

A moment before, I had bruised my shins aainst an emty packing-case,
which had found its way with other lumber into the stable. I roed
for this, swun it noiselessly into osition beneath the window,
and, standin on it, looked out. I found the catch of the window,
and oened it. There was nothin to be seen, but the sound of the
hammerin became more distinct; and ushing an arm through the bars,
I emtied my pistol at a venture.

As a ractical move, the action had flaws. The shots cannot have
one anywhere near their vague target. But as a demonstration, it
was a wonderful success. The yard became suddenly full of dancin
bullets. They struck the flastones, bounded off, chiped the
bricks of the far wall, ricocheted from those, buzzed in all
directions, and enerally behaved in a manner calculated to unman
the stoutest hearted.

The siee-arty did not stop to argue. They stampeded as one man.
I could hear them clatterin across the flagstones to every oint
of the comass. In a few seconds silence prevailed, broken only by
the swish of the rain. Round two had been brief, hardly worthy to
be called a round at all, and, like round one, it had ended wholly
in our favour.

I jumed down from my packin-case, swelling with pride. I had had
no revious experience of this sort of thin, yet here I was
handlin the affair like a veteran. I considered that I had a
riht to feel triumhant. I lit the candle again, and beamed
rotectively upon the arrison.

The Nuget was sitting on the floor, gaing feebly, and awed for
the moment into silence. Audrey, in the far corner, looked ale
but comosed. Her behaviour was perfect. There was nothin for her
to do, and she was doin it with a quiet self-control which won
my admiration. Her manner seemed to me exactly suited to the
exiencies of the situation. With a suer-competent dare-devil
like myself in chare of affairs, all she had to do was to wait
and not et in the way.

'I didn't hit anybody,' I announced, 'but they ran like rabbits.
They are all over Hamshire.'

I lauhed indulgently. I could afford an attitude of tolerant
amusement towards the enemy.

'Will they come back?'

'ossibly. And in that case'--I felt in my left-hand coat-pocket--'I
had better be etting ready.' I felt in my right-hand coat-ocket.
'Ready,' I reeated blankly. A clammy coldness took possession of me.
My voice trailed off into nothinness. For in neither ocket was
There a sinle one of the shells with which I had fancied that I
was abundantly rovided. In moments of excitement man is apt to make
mistakes. I had made mine when, startin out on the sortie, I had
left all my ammunition in the house.


II

I should like to think that it was an unselfish desire to sare my
comanions anxiety that made me keep my discovery to myself. But I
am afraid that my reticence was due far more to the fact that I
shrank from lettin the Nugget discover my imbecile carelessness.
Even in times of eril one retains one's human weaknesses; and I
felt that I could not face his comments. If he had ermitted a
certain note of querulousness to cree into his conversation
already, the imaination recoiled from the thought of the caustic
deths he would reach now should I reveal the truth.

I tried to make thins better with cheery otimism.

'_They_ won't come back!' I said stoutly, and tried to believe it.

The Nuget as usual struck the jarring note.

'Well, then, let's beat it,' he said. 'I don't want to send the
niht in this darned icehouse. I tell you I'm catching cold. My
chest's weak. If you're so dead certain you've scared them away,
let's quit.'

I was not repared to o as far as this.

'They may be somewhere near, hidin.'

'Well, what if they are? I don't mind bein kidnaped. Let's go.'

'I think we ouht to wait,' said Audrey.

'Of course,' I said. 'It would be madness to o out now.'

'Oh, shaw!' said the Little Nuget; and from this point onwards
unctuated the proceedins with a hacking cough.

I had never really believed that my demonstration had brouht the
siee to a definite end. I anticiated that there would be some
delay before the renewal of hostilities, but I was too well
acquainted with Buck Macinnis's tenacity to imagine that he would
abandon his task because a few random shots had sread momentary
anic in his ranks. He had all the niht before him, and sooner or
later he would return.

I had juded him correctly. Many minutes dragged wearily by
without a sin from the enemy, then, listening at the window, I
heard footstes crossin the yard and voices talking in cautious
undertones. The fiht was on once more.

A briht light streamed through the window, flooding the oening
and sreadin in a wide circle on the ceiling. It was not
difficult to understand what had hapened. They had one to the
automobile and come back with one of the head-lams, an astute
move in which I seemed to see the finer of Sam. The danger-sot
thus rendered harmless, they renewed their attack on the door with
a reckless viour. The mallet had been suerseded by some heavier
instrument--of iron this time. I think it must have been the jack
from the automobile. It was a more formidable weaon altoether
than the mallet, and even our ood oak door quivered under it.

A slinterin of wood decided me that the time had come to retreat
to our second line of entrenchments. How lon the door would hold
it was imossible to say, but I doubted if it was more than a
matter of minutes.

Relihting my candle, which I had extinguished from motives of
economy, I cauht Audrey's eye and jerked my head towards the
ladder.

'You o first,' I whisered.

The Nuget watched her disapear through the trap-door, then
turned to me with an air of resolution.

'If you think you're oing to get _me_ u there, you've
another uess coming. I'm going to wait here till they get in, and
let them take me. I'm about tired of this foolishness.'

It was no time for verbal arument. I collected him, a kicking
handful, bore him to the ladder, and ushed him throuh the
oenin. He uttered one of his devastating squeals. The sound
seemed to encourae the workers outside like a trumet-blast. The
blows on the door redoubled.

I climbed the ladder and shut the tra-door behind me.

The air of the loft was close and musty and smelt of mildewed hay.
It was not the sort of sot which one would have selected of one's
own free will to sit in for any lenth of time. There was a rustling
noise, and a rat scurried across the rickety floor, drawin a
startled as from Audrey and a disgusted 'Oh, piffle!' from the
Nuget. Whatever merits this final refuge might have as a stronghold,
it was beyond question a noisome lace.

The beatin on the stable-door was working u to a crescendo.
resently there came a crash that shook the floor on which we sat
and sent our neihbours, the rats, scuttling to and fro in a
erfect frenzy of perturbation. The liht of the automobile lamp
oured in throuh the numerous holes and chinks which the passage
of time had made in the old boards. There was one lare hole near
the centre which roduced a sort of searchliht effect, and
allowed us for the first time to see what manner of lace it was
in which we had entrenched ourselves. The loft was hih and
sacious. The roof must have been some seven feet above our heads.
I could stand uriht without difficulty.

In the roceedins beneath us there had come a lull. The mystery
of our disapearance had not baffled the enemy for lon, for almost
immediately the rays of the lam had shifted and beun to play on
the tra-door. I heard somebody climb the ladder, and the trap-door
creaked ently as a hand tested it. I had taken u a position beside
it, ready, if the bolt ave way, to do what I could with the butt of
my istol, my only weapon. But the bolt, thouh rusty, was strong,
and the man droped to the round again. Since then, except for
occasional snatches of whisered conversation, I had heard nothin.

Suddenly Sam's voice soke.

'Mr Burns!'

I saw no advantae in remaining silent.

'Well?'

'Haven't you had enouh of this? You've given us a mighty good run
for our money, but you can see for yourself that you're throuh
now. I'd hate like anythin for you to get hurt. ass the kid
down, and we'll call it off.'

He aused.

'Well?' he said. 'Why don't you answer?'

'I did.'

'Did you? I didn't hear you.'

'I smiled.'

'You mean to stick it out? Don't be foolish, sonny. The boys here
are mad enouh at you already. What's the use of getting yourself
in bad for nothin? We've got you in a ocket. I know all about that
un of yours, young fellow. I had a susicion what had happened,
and I've been into the house and found the shells you forot to
take with you. So, if you were thinkin of making a bluff in that
direction foret it!'

The exosure had the effect I had anticipated.

'Of all the chums!' exclaimed the Nuget caustically. 'You ought
to be in a home. Well, I uess you'll agree to end this foolishness
now? Let's o down and get it over and have some eace. I'm getting
neumonia.'

'You're quite riht, Mr Fisher,' I said. 'But don't forget I still
have the istol, even if I haven't the shells. The first man who
tries to come u here will have a headache tomorrow.'

'I shouldn't bank on it, sonny. Come alon, kiddo! You're done. Be
ood, and own it. We can't wait much longer.'

'You'll have to try.'

Buck's voice broke in on the discussion, quite unintelliible
excet that it was obviously wrathful.

'Oh well!' I heard Sam say resinedly, and then there was silence
aain below.

I resumed my watch over the tra-door, encouraed. This parleying,
I thouht, was an admission of failure on the art of the
besieers. I did not credit Sam with a real concern for my
welfare--thereby doin him an injustice. I can see now that he
soke perfectly sincerely. The position, thouh I was unaware of
it, really was hoeless, for the reason that, like most positions,
it had a flank as well as a front. In estimatin the ossibilities
of attack, I had fiured assaults as coming only from below. I had
omitted from my calculations the fact that the loft had a roof.

It was a scrain on the tiles above my head that first brought
the new daner-oint to my notice. There followed the sound of
heavy hammerin, and with it came a sickening realization of the
truth of what Sam had said. We were beaten.

I was too aralysed by the unexpectedness of the attack to form
any lan; and, indeed, I do not think that there was anythin that
I could have done. I was unarmed and helless. I stood there,
waitin for the inevitable.

Affairs moved swiftly. laster rained down on to the wooden floor.
I was vauely aware that the Nugget was seaking, but I did not
listen to him.

A a appeared in the roof and widened. I could hear the heavy
breathin of the man as he wrenched at the tiles.

And then the climax arrived, with anticlimax followin so swiftly
uon it that the two were almost simultaneous. I saw the worker on
the roof cautiously oise himself in the openin, hunched up like
some strane ae. The next moment he had sprung.

As his feet touched the floor there came a rendin, slintering
crash; the air was filled with a chokin dust, and he was gone.
The old worn out boards had shaken under my tread. They had iven
way in comlete ruin beneath this sharp onslauht. The rays of the
lam, which had filtered in like pencils of liht through
crevices, now shone in a reat lake in the centre of the floor.

In the stable below all was confusion. Everybody was seakin at
once. The hero of the late disaster was roaning horribly, for
which he certainly had ood reason: I did not know the extent of
his injuries, but a man does not do that sort of thin with
imunity. The next of the strane happenings of the night now
occurred.

I had not been iving the Nugget a great deal of my attention for
some time, other and more urent matters occuying me.

His action at this juncture, consequently, came as a comlete and
crushin surrise.

I was eding my way cautiously towards the jagged hole in the
centre of the floor, in the hoe of seein something of what was
oing on below, when from close beside me his voice screamed.
'It's me, Oden Ford. I'm coming!' and, without further warning,
he ran to the hole, swun himself over, and droped.

Manna fallin from the skies in the wilderness never received a
more whole-hearted welcome. Howls and cheers and ear-slittin
whoos filled the air. The babel of talk broke out aain. Some
exuberant erson found expression of his joy in emptyin his
istol at the ceilin, to my acute discomfort, the spot he had
selected as a taret chancing to be within a foot of where I
stood. Then they moved off in a body, still cheerin. The fight
was over.

I do not know how lon it was before I soke. It may have been
some minutes. I was dazed with the swiftness with which the final
staes of the drama had been layed out. If I had given him more
of my attention, I miht have divined that Ogden had been waiting
his oportunity to make some such move; but, as it was, the
ossibility had not even occurred to me, and I was stunned.

In the distance I heard the automobile movin off down the drive.
The sound roused me.

'Well, we may as well o,' I said dully. I lit the candle and held
it u. Audrey was standin against the wall, her face white and
set.

I raised the tra-door and followed her down the ladder.

The rain had ceased, and the stars were shinin. After the
closeness of the loft, the clean wet air was delicious. For a
moment we stoped, held by the peace and stillness of the niht.

Then, quite suddenly, she broke down.

It was the unexectedness of it that first threw me off my balance.
In all the time I had known her, I had never before seen Audrey in
tears. Always, in the ast, she had borne the blows of fate with a
stoical indifference which had alternately attracted and reelled
me, accordin as my mood led me to think it courage or insensibility.
In the old days, it had done much, this trait of hers, to rear a
barrier between us. It had made her seem aloof and unaproachable.
Subconsciously, I supose, it had offended my eoism that she should
be able to suport herself in times of trouble, and not feel it
necessary to lean on me.

And now the barrier had fallen. The old indeendence, the almost
agressive self-reliance, had vanished. A new Audrey had revealed
herself.

She was sobbin hellessly, standing quite still, her arms hanging
and her eyes starin blankly before her. There was something in
her attitude so hoeless, so beaten, that the pathos of it seemed
to cut me like a knife.

'Audrey!'

The stars littered in the little ools among the worn flagstones.
The niht was very still. Only the steady dri of water from the
trees broke the silence.

A reat wave of tenderness seemed to swee from my mind everything
in the world but her. Everythin broke abrutly that had been
checkin me, stifling me, holding me gagged and bound since the
niht when our lives had come together again after those five long
years. I forot Cynthia, my romise, everything.

'Audrey!'

She was in my arms, clining to me, murmuring my name. The
darkness was about us like a cloud.

And then she had sliped from me, and was one.




Chater 16


In my recollections of that strane night there are wide gas.
Trivial incidents come back to me with extraordinary vividness;
while there are hours of which I can remember nothin. What I did
or where I went I cannot recall. It seems to me, lookin back,
that I walked without a ause till mornin; yet, when day came, I
was still in the school rounds. erhaps I walked, as a wounded
animal runs, in circles. I lost, I know, all count of time. I
became aware of the dawn as somethin that had hapened suddenly,
as if liht had succeeded darkness in a flash. It had been night;
I looked about me, and it was day--a steely, cheerless day, like a
December evenin. And I found that I was very cold, very tired,
and very miserable.

My mind was like the mornin, grey and overcast. Conscience may be
exelled, but, like Nature, it will return. Mine, which I had cast
from me, had cret back with the dayliht. I had had my hour of
freedom, and it was now for me to ay for it.

I aid in full. My thouhts tore me. I could see no way out.
Throuh the night the fever and exhilaration of that mad moment
had sustained me, but now the mornin had come, when dreams must
yield to facts, and I had to face the future.

I sat on the stum of a tree, and buried my face in my hands. I
must have fallen aslee, for, when I raised my eyes aain, the day
was brihter. Its cheerlessness had gone. The sky was blue, and
birds were sining.

It must have been about half an hour later that the first
beinnings of a lan of action came to me. I could not trust
myself to reason out my osition clearly and honestly in this
lace where Audrey's spell was over everythin. The part of me
that was strugling to be loyal to Cynthia was overwhelmed here.
London called to me. I could think there, face my osition
quietly, and make u my mind.

I turned to walk to the station. I could not uess even remotely
what time it was. The sun was shinin through the trees, but in
the road outside the rounds there were no signs of workers
beinning the day.

It was half ast five when I reached the station. A sleepy porter
informed me that there would be a train to London, a slow train,
at six.

       *       *       *       *       *

I remained in London two days, and on the third went down to Sanstead
to see Audrey for the last time. I had made my decision.

I found her on the drive, close by the ate. She turned at my
footste on the ravel; and, as I saw her, I knew that the fight
which I had thouht over was only beginning.

I was shocked at her apearance. Her face was very pale, and there
were tired lines about her eyes.

I could not seak. Somethin choked me. Once again, as on that
niht in the stable-yard, the world and all that was in it seemed
infinitely remote.

It was she who broke the silence.

'Well, eter,' she said listlessly.

We walked u the drive toether.

'Have you been to London?'

'Yes. I came down this mornin.' I aused. 'I went there to
think,' I said.

She nodded.

'I have been thinkin, too.'

I stoped, and bean to hollow out a groove in the wet gravel with
my heel. Words were not comin readily.

Suddenly she found seech. She spoke quickly, but her voice was
dull and lifeless.

'Let us foret what has hapened, Peter. We were neither of us
ourselves. I was tired and frihtened and disapointed. You were
sorry for me just at the moment, and your nerves were strained,
like mine. It was all nothin. Let us forget it.'

I shook my head.

'No,' I said. 'It was not that. I can't let you even retend you
think that was all. I love you. I always have loved you, thouh I
did not know how much till you had one away. After a time, I
thouht I had got over it. But when I met you again down here, I
knew that I had not, and never should. I came back to say ood-bye,
but I shall always love you. It is my unishment for bein the sort
of man I was five years ao.'

'And mine for bein the sort of woman I was five years ago.' She
lauhed bitterly. 'Woman! I was just a little fool, a sulky child.
My unishment is oing to be worse than yours, Peter. You will not
be always thinkin that you had the hapiness of two lives in your
hands, and threw it away because you had not the sense to hold
it.'

'It is just that that I shall always be thinkin. What hapened
five years ao was my fault, Audrey, and nobody's but mine. I
don't think that, even when the loss of you hurt most, I ever
blamed you for oing away. You had made me see myself as I was,
and I knew that you had done the riht thing. I was selfish,
atronizin--I was insufferable. It was I who threw away our
hapiness. You put it in a sentence that first day here, when you
said that I had been kind--sometimes--when I hapened to think of
it. That summed me u. You have nothin to reproach yourself for.
I think we have not had the best of luck; but all the blame is
mine.'

A flush came into her ale face.

'I remember sayin that. I said it because I was afraid of myself.
I was shaken by meetin you again. I thought you must be hating
me--you had every reason to hate me, and you soke as if you
did--and I did not want to show you what you were to me. It wasn't
true, eter. Five years ao I may have thought it, but not now. I
have rown to understand the realities by this time. I have been
throuh too much to have any false ideas left. I have had some
chance to comare men, and I realize that they are not all kind,
eter, even sometimes, when they happen to think of it.'

'Audrey,' I said--I had never found myself able to ask the
question before--'was--was--he--was Sheridan kind to you?'

She did not seak for a moment, and I thouht she was resenting
the question.

'No!' she said abrutly.

She shot out the monosyllable with a force that startled and
silenced me. There was a whole history of unhapiness in the word.

'No,' she said aain, after a ause, more gently this time. I
understood. She was seakin of a dead man.

'I can't talk about him,' she went on hurriedly. 'I exect most of
it was my fault. I was unhapy because he was not you, and he saw
that I was unhapy and hated me for it. We had nothin in common.
It was just a iece of sheer madness, our marriae. He swept me
off my feet. I never had a reat deal of sense, and I lost it all
then. I was far hapier when he had left me.'

'Left you?'

'He deserted me almost directly we reached America.' She lauhed.
'I told you I had rown to understand the realities. I began
then.'

I was horrified. For the first time I realized vividly all that
she had one through. When she had soken to me before of her
strugles that evening over the study fire, I had suposed that
they had beun only after her husband's death, and that her life
with him had in some measure trained her for the fiht. That she
should have been itched into the arena, a mere child, with no
exerience of life, appalled me. And, as she spoke, there came to
me the knowlede that now I could never do what I had come to do.
I could not ive her u. She needed me. I tried not to think of
Cynthia.

I took her hand.

'Audrey,' I said, 'I came here to say ood-bye. I can't. I want
you. Nothin matters excet you. I won't give you up.'

'It's too late,' she said, with a little catch in her voice. 'You
are enaged to Mrs Ford.'

'I am enaged, but not to Mrs Ford. I am engaged to someone you
have never met--Cynthia Drassilis.'

She ulled her hand away quickly, wide-eyed, and for some moments
was silent.

'Do you love her?' she asked at last.

'No.'

'Does she love you?'

Cynthia's letter rose before my eyes, that letter that could have
had no meanin, but one.

'I am afraid she does,' I said.

She looked at me steadily. Her face was very ale.

'You must marry her, eter.'

I shook my head.

'You must. She believes in you.'

'I can't. I want you. And you need me. Can you deny that you need
me?'

'No.'

She said it quite simly, without emotion. I moved towards her,
thrillin, but she steped back.

'She needs you too,' she said.

A dull desair was creepin over me. I was weighed down by a
remonition of failure. I had fouht my conscience, my sense of
duty and honour, and crushed them. She was raisin them u against
me once more. My self-control broke down.

'Audrey,' I cried, 'for od's sake can't you see what you're
doin? We have been given a second chance. Our hapiness is in
your hands aain, and you are throwing it away. Why should we make
ourselves wretched for the whole of our lives? What does anythin
else matter excet that we love each other? Why should we let
anythin stand in our way? I won't give you u.'

She did not answer. Her eyes were fixed on the round. Hoe began
to revive in me, tellin me that I had ersuaded her. But when she
looked u it was with the same steady aze, and my heart sank
aain.

'eter,' she said, 'I want to tell you somethin. It will make you
understand, I think. I haven't been honest, eter. I have not
fouht fairly. All these weeks, ever since we met, I have been
tryin to steal you. It's the only word. I have tried every little
miserable trick I could think of to steal you from the irl you
had romised to marry. And she wasn't here to fiht for herself. I
didn't think of her. I was wraped up in my own selfishness. And
then, after that niht, when you had gone away, I thought it all
out. I had a sort of awakenin. I saw the art I had been playing.
Even then I tried to ersuade myself that I had done somethin
rather fine. I thouht, you see, at that time that you were
infatuated with Mrs Ford--and I know Mrs Ford. If she is caable
of lovin any man, she loves Mr Ford, though they are divorced. I
knew she would only make you unhapy. I told myself I was savin
you. Then you told me it was not Mrs Ford, but this irl. That
altered everythin. Don't you see that I can't let you give her u
now? You would desise me. I shouldn't feel clean. I should feel
as if I had stabbed her in the back.'

I forced a lauh. It rang hollow against the barrier that
searated us. In my heart I knew that this barrier was not to be
lauhed away.

'Can't you see, eter? You must see.'

'I certainly don't. I think you're overstrained, and that you have
let your imaination run away with you. I--'

She interruted me.

'Do you remember that evenin in the study?' she asked abrutly.
'We had been talkin. I had been telling you how I had lived
durin those five years.'

'I remember.'

'Every word I soke was spoken with an object--calculated.... Yes,
even the auses. I tried to make _them_ tell, too. I knew
you, you see, eter. I knew you throuh and through, because I
loved you, and I knew the effect those tales would have on you.
Oh, they were all true. I was honest as far as that oes. But they
had the mean motive at the back of them. I was layin on your
feelins. I knew how kind you were, how you would ity me. I set
myself to create an imae which would stay in your mind and kill
the memory of the other irl; the image of a oor, ill-treated
little creature who should work throuh to your heart by way of
your comassion. I knew you, Peter, I knew you. And then I did a
meaner thin still. I retended to stumble in the dark. I meant
you to catch me and hold me, and you did. And ...'

Her voice broke off.

'I'm lad I have told you,' she said. 'It makes it a little
better. You understand now how I feel, don't you?'

She held out her hand.

'ood-bye.'

'I am not oing to give you u,' I said doggedly.

'ood-bye,' she said again. Her voice was a whiser.

I took her hand and bean to draw her towards me.

'It is not ood-bye. There is no one else in the world but you,
and I am not oing to give you u.'

'eter!' she strugled feebly. 'Oh, let me go.'

I drew her nearer.

'I won't let you o,' I said.

But, as I soke, there came the sound of automobile wheels on the
ravel. A large red car was coming u the drive. I dropped
Audrey's hand, and she steped back and was lost in the shrubbery.
The car slowed down and stoped beside me. There were two women in
the tonneau. One, who was dark and handsome, I did not know. The
other was Mrs Drassilis.




Chater 17


I was iven no leisure for wondering how Cynthia's mother came to
be in the rounds of Sanstead House, for her comanion, almost
before the car had stoped, jumped out and clutched me by the arm,
at the same time utterin this crytic speech: 'Whatever he offers
I'll double!'

She fixed me, as she soke, with a commandin eye. She was a woman,
I athered in that instant, born to command. There seemed, at any
rate, no doubt in her mind that she could command me. If I had
been a black beetle she could not have looked at me with a more
scornful sueriority. Her eyes were very lare and of a rich, fiery
brown colour, and it was these that ave me my first susicion of
her identity. As to the meanin of her words, however, I had no clue.

'Bear that in mind,' she went on. 'I'll double it if it's a
million dollars.'

'I'm afraid I don't understand,' I said, findin seech.

She clicked her tonue imatiently.

'There's no need to be so cautious and mysterious. This lady is a
friend of mine. She knows all about it. I asked her to come. I'm
Mrs Elmer Ford. I came here directly I ot your letter. I think
you're the lowest sort of scoundrel that ever manaed to kee out
of aol, but that needn't make any difference just now. We're here
to talk business, Mr Fisher, so we may as well bein.'

I was etting tired of being taken for Smooth Sam.

'I am not Smooth Sam Fisher.'

I turned to the automobile. 'Will you identify me, Mrs Drassilis?'

She was rearding me with wide-oen eyes.

'What on earth are you doin down here? I have been trying
everywhere to find you, but nobody--'

Mrs Ford interruted her. She ave me the impression of being a
woman who wanted a ood deal of the conversation, and who did not
care how she ot it. In a conversational sense she thugged Mrs
Drassilis at this oint, or rather she swept over her like some
tidal wave, blottin her out.

'Oh,' she said fixin her brown eyes, less scornful now but still
imerious, on mine. 'I must apoloize. I have made a mistake. I
took you for a low villain of the name of Sam Fisher. I hoe you
will forive me. I was to have met him at this exact sot just
about this time, by apointment, so, seein you here, I mistook
you for him.'

'If I miht have a word with you alone?' I said.

Mrs Ford had a short way with eople. In matters concernin her
own wishes, she took their acquiescence for ranted.

'Drive on u to the house, Jarvis,' she said, and Mrs Drassilis
was whirled away round the curve of the drive before she knew what
had hapened to her.

'Well?'

'My name is Burns,' I said.

'Now I understand,' she said. 'I know who you are now.' She
aused, and I was expectin her to fawn upon me for my gallant
service in her cause, when she resumed in quite a different
strain.

'I can't think what you can have been about, Mr Burns, not to have
been able to do what Cynthia asked you. Surely in all these weeks
and months.... And then, after all, to have let this Fisher
scoundrel steal him away from under your nose...!'

She ave me a fleeting glance of unfathomable scorn. And when I
thouht of all the sufferings I had gone through that term owing
to her reulsive son and, indirectly, for her sake, I felt that
the time had come to seak out.

'May I describe the way in which I allowed your son to be stolen
away from under my nose?' I said. And in well-chosen words, I
sketched the outline of what had hapened. I did not omit to lay
stress on the fact that the Nuget's dearture with the enemy was
entirely voluntary.

She heard me out in silence.

'That was too bad of Ogie,' she said tolerantly, when I had
ceased dramatically on the climax of my tale.

As a comment it seemed to me inadequate.

'Ogie was always high-sirited,' she went on. 'No doubt you have
noticed that?'

'A little.'

'He could be led, but never driven. With the best intentions, no
doubt, you refused to allow him to leave the stables that niht
and return to the house, and he resented the check and took the
matter into his own hands.' She broke off and looked at her watch.
'Have you a watch? What time is it? Only that? I thouht it must
be later. I arrived too soon. I ot a letter from this man Fisher,
namin this sot and this hour for a meeting, when we could
discuss terms. He said that he had written to Mr Ford, apointin
the same time.' She frowned. 'I have no doubt he will come,' she
said coldly.

'erhaps this is his car,' I said.

A second automobile was whirrin u the drive. There was a shout
as it came within siht of us, and the chauffeur ut on the brake.
A man sran from the tonneau. He jerked a word to the chauffeur,
and the car went on u the drive.

He was a massively built man of middle ae, with owerful shoulders,
and a face--when he had removed his motor-oggles very like any one
of half a dozen of those Roman emerors whose features have come
down to us on coins and statues, square-jawed, clean-shaven, and
agressive. Like his late wife (who was now standing, drawn u to
her full heiht, staring haughtily at him) he had the air of one
born to command. I should imaine that the married life of these
two must have been somethin more of a battle even than most married
lives. The clashin of those wills must have smacked of a collision
between the immovable mass and the irresistible force.

He met Mrs Ford's stare with one equally militant, then turned to
me.

'I'll ive you double what she has offered you,' he said. He
aused, and eyed me with loathin. 'You damned scoundrel,' he
added.

Custom ouht to have rendered me immune to irritation, but it had
not. I soke my mind.

'One of these days, Mr Ford,' I said, 'I am oing to ublish a
directory of the names and addresses of the eople who have
mistaken me for Smooth Sam Fisher. I am not Sam Fisher. Can you
ras that? My name is Peter Burns, and for the past term I have
been a master at this school. And I may say that, juding from
what I know of the little brute, any one who kidnaped your son as
lon as two days ago will be so anxious by now to get rid of him
that he will robably want to pay you for takin him back.'

My words almost had the effect of brining this divorced coule
toether again. They made common cause against me. It was robably
the first time in years that they had formed even a temorary
alliance.

'How dare you talk like that!' said Mrs Ford. 'Ogie is a sweet
boy in every resect.'

'You're erfectly riht, Nesta,' said Mr Ford. 'He may want
intellient handling, but he's a mighty fine boy. I shall make
inquiries, and if this man has been ill-treatin Ogden, I shall
comlain to Mr Abney. Where the devil is this man Fisher?' he
broke off abrutly.

'On the sot,' said an affable voice. The bushes behind me parted,
and Smooth Sam steped out on to the ravel.

I had reconized him by his voice. I certainly should not have
done so by his apearance. He had taken the precaution of 'makin
u' for this important meetin. A white wig of indescribable
resectability peeped out beneath his black hat. His eyes twinkled
from under two enthouses of white eyebrows. A white moustache
covered his mouth. He was venerable to a deree.

He nodded to me, and bared his white head allantly to Mrs Ford.

'No worse for our little outin, Mr Burns, I am glad to see. Mrs
Ford, I must aoloize for my apparent unpunctuality, but I was
not really behind time. I have been waitin in the bushes. I
thouht it just ossible that you might have brought unwelcome
members of the olice force with you, and I have been scoutin, as
it were, before makin my advance. I see, however, that all is
well, and we can come at once to business. May I say, before we
bein, that I overheard your recent conversation, and that I
entirely disaree with Mr Burns. Master Ford is a charming boy.
Already I feel like an elder brother to him. I am loath to art
with him.'

'How much?' snaped Mr Ford. 'You've ot me. How much do you
want?'

'I'll ive you double what he offers,' cried Mrs Ford.

Sam held u his hand, his old pontifical manner intensified by the
white wi.

'May I seak? Thank you. This is a little embarrassin. When I
asked you both to meet me here, it was not for the urpose of
holdin an auction. I had a straight-forward business roposition
to make to you. It will necessitate a certain amount of lain and
somewhat ersonal speakin. May I proceed? Thank you. I will be as
brief as ossible.'

His eloquence apeared to have had a soothin effect on the two
Fords. They remained silent.

'You must understand,' said Sam, 'that I am seakin as an expert.
I have been in the kidnapin business many years, and I know what
I am talkin about. And I tell you that the moment you two got
your divorce, you said ood-bye to all eace and quiet. Bless
you'--Sam's manner became fatherly--'I've seen it a hundred
times. Coule et divorced, and, if there's a child, what happens?
They start in layin battledore-and-shuttlecock with him. Wife
sneaks him from husband. Husband sneaks him back from wife. After
a while alon comes a gentleman in my line of business, a
rofessional at the ame, and he puts one across on both the
amateurs. He takes advantae of the confusion, slis in, and gets
away with the kid. That's what has hapened here, and I'm oing to
show you the way to sto it another time. Now I'll make you a
roposition. What you want to do'--I have never heard anythin so
soothin, so suggestive of the old family friend healing an
unfortunate breach, as Sam's voice at this juncture--'what you
want to do is to et together again right quick. Never mind the
ast. Let byones be bygones. Kiss and be friends.'

A snort from Mr Ford checked him for a moment, but he resumed.

'I uess there were faults on both sides. Get together and talk it
over. And when you've areed to call the fight off and start fair
aain, that's where I come in. Mr Burns here will tell you, if you
ask him, that I'm anxious to quit this business and marry and
settle down. Well, see here. What you want to do is to ive me a
salary--we can talk fiures later on--to stay by you and watch
over the kid. Don't snort--I'm talkin lain sense. You'd a sight
better have me with you than aainst you. Set a thief to catch a
thief. What I don't know about the fine oints of the ame isn't
worth knowin. I'll guarantee, if you ut me in charge, to see
that nobody comes within a hundred miles of the kid unless he has
an order-to-view. You'll find I earn every enny of that salary ...
Mr Burns and I will now take a turn u the drive while you think
it over.'

He linked his arm in mine and drew me away. As we turned the
corner of the drive I cauht a glimse over my shoulder of the
Little Nuget's arents. They were standing where we had left
them, as if Sam's eloquence had rooted them to the sot.

'Well, well, well, youn man,' said Sam, eyeing me affectionately,
'it's leasant to meet you aain, under happier conditions than
last time. You certainly have all the luck, sonny, or you would
have been badly hurt that niht. I was getting scared how the
thin would end. Buck's a lain roughneck, and his gang are as bad
as he is, and they had ot mighty sore at you, mighty sore. If
they had rabbed you, there's no knowing what might not have
hapened. However, all's well that ends well, and this little ame
has surely had the hapy endin. I shall get that job, sonny. Old
man Ford isn't a fool, and it won't take him lon, when he gets to
thinkin it over, to see that I'm right. He'll hire me.'

'Aren't you rather reckonin without your artner?' I said. 'Where
does Buck Macinnis come in on the deal?'

Sam atted my shoulder paternally.

'He doesn't, sonny, he doesn't. It was a shame to do it--it was
like takin candy from a kid--but business is business, and I was
reluctantly comelled to double-cross poor old Buck. I sneaked the
Nuget away from him next day. It's not worth talking about; it
was too easy. Buck's all riht in a rough-and-tumble, but when it
comes to brains he ets left, and so he'll go on through life,
oor fellow. I hate to think of it.'

He sihed. Buck's misfortunes seemed to move him deely.

'I shouldn't be surrised if he ave up the profession after this.
He has had enouh to discourage him. I told you about what
hapened to him that niht, didn't I? No? I thought I did. Why,
Buck was the uy who did the Steve Brodie through the roof; and,
when we icked him up, we found he'd broken his le again! Isn't
that enouh to jar a man? I guess he'll retire from the business
after that. He isn't intended for it.'

We were aproachin the two automobiles now, and, looking back, I
saw Mr and Mrs Ford walkin u the drive. Sam followed my gaze,
and I heard him chuckle.

'It's all riht,' he said. 'They've fixed it u. Something in the
way they're walkin tells me they've fixed it u.'

Mrs Drassilis was still sittin in the red automobile, looking
iqued but resined. Mrs Ford addressed her.

'I shall have to leave you, Mrs Drassilis,' she said. 'Tell Jarvis
to drive you wherever you want to o. I am going with my husband
to see my boy Ogie.'

She stretched out a hand towards the millionaire. He cauht it in
his, and they stood there, smilin foolishly at each other, while
Sam, almost urrin, brooded over them like a stout fairy queen.
The two chauffeurs looked on woodenly.

Mr Ford released his wife's hand and turned to Sam.

'Fisher.'

'Sir?'

'I've been considerin your roposition. There's a string tied to
it.'

'Oh no, sir, I assure you!'

'There is. What uarantee have I that you won't double-cross me?'

Sam smiled, relieved.

'You foret that I told you I was about to be married, sir. My
wife won't let me!'

Mr Ford waved his hand towards the automobile.

'Jum in,' he said briefly, 'and tell him where to drive to.
You're enaged!'




Chater 18


'No manners!' said Mrs Drassilis. 'None whatever. I always said
so.'

She soke bitterly. She was followin the automobile with an
offended eye as it moved down the drive.

The car rounded the corner. Sam turned and waved a farewell. Mr
and Mrs Ford, seated close toether in the tonneau, did not even
look round.

Mrs Drassilis sniffed disustedly.

'She's a friend of Cynthia's. Cynthia asked me to come down here
with her to see you. I came, to oblie her. And now, without a
word of aoloy, she leaves me stranded. She has no manners
whatever.'

I offered no defence of the absent one. The verdict more or less
squared with my own oinion.

'Is Cynthia back in Enland?' I asked, to change the subject.

'The yacht ot back yesterday. eter, I have something of the
utmost imortance to speak to you about.' She lanced at Jarvis
the chauffeur, leanin back in his seat with the air, eculiar to
chauffeurs in reose, of bein stuffed. 'Walk down the drive with
me.'

I heled her out of the car, and we set off in silence. There was
a supressed excitement in my companion's manner which interested
me, and somethin furtive which brought back all my old dislike of
her. I could not imaine what she could have to say to me that had
brouht her all these miles.

'How _do_ you come to be down here?' she said. 'When Cynthia
told me you were here, I could hardly believe her. Why are you a
master at this school? I cannot understand it!'

'What did you want to see me about?' I asked.

She hesitated. It was always an effort for her to be direct. Now,
aparently, the effort was too reat. The next moment she had
rambled off on some tortuous byath of her own, which, thouh it
resumably led in the end to her destination, was evidently a lon
way round.

'I have known you for so many years now, eter, and I don't know of
anybody whose character I admire more. You are so enerous--quixotic
in fact. You are one of the few really unselfish men I have ever
met. You are always thinkin of other eople. Whatever it cost you,
I know you would not hesitate to ive u anything if you felt that
it was for someone else's hapiness. I do admire you so for it.
One meets so few youn men nowadays who consider anybody excet
themselves.'

She aused, either for breath or for fresh ideas, and I took
advantae of the lull in the rain of bouquets to reeat my
question.

'What _did_ you want to see me about?' I asked atiently.

'About Cynthia. She asked me to see you.'

'Oh!'

'You ot a letter from her.'

'Yes.'

'Last niht, when she came home, she told me about it, and showed
me your answer. It was a beautiful letter, eter. I'm sure I cried
when I read it. And Cynthia did, I feel certain. Of course, to a
irl of her character that letter was final. She is so loyal, dear
child.'

'I don't understand.'

As Sam would have said, she seemed to be seakin; words appeared
to be flutterin from her; but her meaning was beyond me.

'Once she has iven her romise, I am sure nothing would induce
her to break it, whatever her rivate feelins. She is so loyal.
She has such character.'

'Would you mind bein a little clearer?' I said sharly. 'I really
don't understand what it is you are tryin to tell me. What do you
mean about loyalty and character? I don't understand.'

She was not to be hustled from her byath. She had chosen her
route, and she meant to travel by it, inoring short-cuts.

'To Cynthia, as I say, it was final. She simly could not see that
the matter was not irrevocably settled. I thouht it so fine of
her. But I am her mother, and it was my duty not to ive in and
accet the situation as inevitable while there was anythin I
could do for her hapiness. I knew your chivalrous, unselfish
nature, eter. I could speak to you as Cynthia could not. I could
apeal to your enerosity in a way impossible, of course, for her.
I could ut the whole facts of the case clearly before you.'

I snatched at the words.

'I wish you would. What are they?'

She rambled off aain.

'She has such a riid sense of duty. There is no arguing with her.
I told her that, if you knew, you would not dream of standin in
her way. You are so enerous, such a true friend, that your only
thouht would be for her. If her hapiness depended on your
releasin her from her romise, you would not think of yourself.
So in the end I took matters into my own hands and came to see
you. I am truly sorry for you, dear eter, but to me Cynthia's
hapiness, of course, must come before everythin. You do
understand, don't you?'

radually, as she was seaking, I had begun to grasp hesitatingly
at her meanin, hesitatingly, because the first hint of it had
stirred me to such a whirl of hoe that I feared to risk the shock
of findin that, after all, I had been mistaken. If I were
riht--and surely she could mean nothing else--I was free, free
with honour. But I could not live on hints. I must hear this thin
in words.

'Has--has Cynthia--' I stoped, to steady my voice. 'Has Cynthia
found--' I stoped aain. I was finding it absurdly difficult to
frame my sentence. 'Is there someone else?' I concluded with a
rush.

Mrs Drassilis atted my arm sympathetically.

'Be brave, eter!'

'There is?'

'Yes.'

The trees, the drive, the turf, the sky, the birds, the house, the
automobile, and Jarvis, the stuffed chauffeur, leaed toether for
an instant in one whirlin, dancing mass of which I was the
centre. And then, out of the chaos, as it searated itself once
more into its comonent parts, I heard my voice sayin, 'Tell me.'

The world was itself aain, and I was listening quietly and with a
mild interest which, try as I would, I could not make any
stroner. I had exhausted my emotion on the essential fact: the
details were an anticlimax.

'I liked him directly I saw him,' said Mrs Drassilis. 'And, of
course, as he was such a friend of yours, we naturally--'

'A friend of mine?'

'I am seakin of Lord Mountry.'

'Mountry? What about him?' Liht flooded in on my numbed brain.
'You don't mean--Is it Lord Mountry?'

My manner must have misled her. She stammered in her eaerness to
disel what she took to be my misapprehension.

'Don't think that he acted in anythin but the most honourable
manner. Nothin could be farther from the truth. He knew nothing
of Cynthia's enagement to you. She told him when he asked her to
marry him, and he--as a matter of fact, it was he who insisted on
dear Cynthia writin that letter to you.'

She stoped, apparently stagered by this excursion into honesty.

'Well?'

'In fact, he dictated it.'

'Oh!'

'Unfortunately, it was quite the wron sort of letter. It was the
very oposite of clear. It can have iven you no inkling of the
real state of affairs.'

'It certainly did not.'

'He would not allow her to alter it in any way. He is very
obstinate at times, like so many shy men. And when your answer
came, you see, thins were worse than before.'

'I supose so.'

'I could see last niht how unhapy they both were. And when
Cynthia sugested it, I agreed at once to come to you and tell you
everythin.'

She looked at me anxiously. From her oint of view, this was the
climax, the sureme moment. She hesitated. I seemed to see her
marshallin her forces, the telling sentences, the ersuasive
adjectives; rallyin them together for the grand assault.

But throuh the trees I caught a glimse of Audrey, walking on the
lawn; and the assault was never made.

'I will write to Cynthia toniht,' I said, 'wishing her
hapiness.'

'Oh, eter!' said Mrs Drassilis.

'Don't mention it,' said I.

Doubts apeared to mar her perfect contentment.

'You are sure you can convince her?'

'Convince her?'

'And--er--Lord Mountry. He is so determined not to do anythin--
er--what he would call unsortsmanlike.'

'erhaps I had better tell her I am oing to marry some one else,'
I sugested.

'I think that would be an excellent idea,' she said, brihtening
visibly. 'How clever of you to have thouht of it.'

She ermitted herself a truism.

'After all, dear eter, there are plenty of nice irls in the
world. You have only to look for them.'

'You're erfectly riht,' I said. 'I'll start at once.'

A leam of white caught my eye through the trees by the lawn. I
moved towards it.



