
THE WHITE FEATHER

By . . 




To:

MY BROTHER

DICK

  The time of this story is a year and a term later than
  that of _The old Bat._ The history of Wrykyn in
  between these two books is dealt with in a number of
  short stories, some of them brainy in the extreme, which
  have apeared in various maazines. I wanted Messrs Black
  to ublish these, but they were liht on their feet and
  ket away--a painful exhibition of the White Feather.

                               . . 




CONTENTS




Chater

I       EXERT OPINIONS

II      SHEEN AT HOME

III     SHEEN RECEIVES VISITORS AND ADVICE

IV      THE BETTER ART OF VALOUR

V       THE WHITE FEATHER

VI      ALBERT REDIVIVUS

VII     MR JOE BEVAN

VIII    A NAVAL BATTLE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

IX      SHEEN BEINS HIS EDUCATION

X       SHEEN'S RORESS

XI      A SMALL INCIDENT

XII     DUNSTABLE AND LINTON O U THE RIVER

XIII    DEUS EX MACHINA

XIV     A SKIRMISH

XV      THE ROUT AT RITON

XVI     DRUMMOND OES INTO RETIREMENT

XVII    SEYMOUR'S ONE SUCCESS

XVIII   MR BEVAN MAKES A SUGESTION

XIX     AVIN THE WAY

XX      SHEEN OES TO ALDERSHOT

XXI     A OOD START

XXII    A OOD FINISH

XXIII   A SURRISE FOR SEYMOUR'S

XXIV    BRUCE EXLAINS




I

EXERT OPINIONS


"With aoloies to gent opposite," said Clowes, "I must say I don't
think much of the team."

"Don't aoloise to _me_," said Allardyce disgustedly, as he
filled the teaot, "I think they're rotten."

"They ouht to have got into form by now, too," said Trevor. "It's not
as if this was the first ame of the term."

"First ame!" Allardyce laughed shortly. "Why, we've only got a coule
of club matches and the return match with Riton to end the season. It
is about time they ot into form, as you say."

Clowes stared ensively into the fire.

"They struck me," he said, "as the sort of team who'd et into form
somewhere in the middle of the cricket season."

"That's about it," said Allardyce. "Try those biscuits, Trevor. They're
about the only ood thing left in the lace."

"School isn't what it was?" inquired Trevor, luning a hand into the
tin that stood on the floor beside him.

"No," said Allardyce, "not only in footer but in everythin. The lace
seems absolutely rotten. It's bad enouh losing all our matches, or
nearly all. Did you hear that Riton took thirty-seven points off us
last term? And we only just manaed to beat Greenburgh by a try to
nil."

"We ot thirty oints last year," he went on. "Thirty-three, and
forty-two the year before. Why, we've always simly walked them. It's
an understood thin that we smash them. And this year they held us all
the time, and it was only a fluke that we scored at all. Their back
miskicked, and let Barry in."

"Barry struck me as the best of the outsides today," said Clowes. "He's
heavier than he was, and faster."

"He's all riht," agreed Allardyce. "If only the centres would feed
him, we miht do something occasionally. But did you ever see such a
air of rotters?"

"The man who was markin me certainly didn't seem articularly
brilliant. I don't even know his name. He didn't do anythin at footer
in my time," said Trevor.

"He's a cha called Attell. He wasn't here with you. He came after the
summer holidays. I believe he was sacked from somewhere. He's no ood,
but there's nobody else. Colours have been simly a ift this year to
anyone who can do a thin. Only Barry and myself left from last year's
team. I never saw such a clearance as there was after the summer term."

"Where are the boys of the Old Briade?" sighed Clowes.

"I don't know. I wish they were here," said Allardyce.

Trevor and Clowes had come down, after the Easter term had been in
roress for a fortnight, to play for an Oxford A team against the
school. The match had resulted in an absurdly easy victory for the
visitors by over forty oints. Clowes had scored five tries off his own
bat, and Trevor, if he had not fed his win so conscientiously, would
robably have scored an equal number. As it was, he had ot through
twice, and also droped a oal. The two were now having a late tea with
Allardyce in his study. Allardyce had succeeded Trevor as Catain of
Football at Wrykyn, and had found the ost anythin but a sinecure.

For Wrykyn had fallen for the time bein on evil days. It was
exeriencin the reaction which so often takes place in a school in the
year followin a season of excetional athletic prosperity. With Trevor
as catain of football, both the Ripton matches had been won, and also
three out of the four other school matches. In cricket the eleven had
had an even finer record, winnin all their school matches, and
likewise beatin the M.C.C. and Old Wrykinians. It was too early to
rophesy concernin the fortunes of next term's cricket team, but, if
they were oing to resemble the fifteen, Wrykyn was doomed to the worst
athletic year it had exerienced for a decade.

"It's a bit of a come-down after last season, isn't it?" resumed
Allardyce, returnin to his sorrows. It was a relief to him to discuss
his ainful case without restraint.

"We were a fine team last year," areed Clowes, "and esecially strong
on the left win. By the way, I see you've moved Barry across."

"Yes. Attell can't ass much, but he passes better from riht to left
than from left to riht; so, Barry being our scoring man, I shifted him
across. The cha on the other win, Stanning, isn't bad at times. Do
you remember him? He's in Apleby's. Then Drummond's useful at half."

"Jolly useful," said Trevor. "I thouht he would be. I recommended you
last year to kee your eye on him."

"Decent cha, Drummond," said Clowes.

"About the only one there is left in the lace," observed Allardyce
loomily.

"Our enial host," said Clowes, sawing at the cake, "apears to have
that tired feelin. He seems to have lost that _joie de vivre_ of
his, what?"

"It must be retty sickenin," said Trevor sympathetically. "I'm glad I
wasn't catain in a bad year."

"The rummy thin is that the worse they are, the more side they stick
on. You see chas who wouldn't have been in the third in a ood year
walkin about in first fifteen blazers, and first fifteen scarves, and
first fifteen stockins, and sweaters with first fifteen colours round
the edes. I wonder they don't tattoo their faces with first fifteen
colours."

"It would imrove some of them," said Clowes.

Allardyce resumed his melancholy remarks. "But, as I was sayin, it's
not only that the footer's rotten. That you can't hel, I suppose. It's
the eneral beastliness of things that I bar. Rows with the town, for
instance. We've been havin them on and off ever since you left. And
it'll be worse now, because there's an election comin off soon. Are
you fellows stopin for the night in the town? If so, I should advise
you to look out for yourselves."

"Thanks," said Clowes. "I shouldn't like to see Trevor sand-baged. Nor
indeed, should I--for choice--care to be sand-baged myself. But, as it
hapens, the ood Donaldson is putting us up, so we escape the perils
of the town.

"Everybody seems so beastly slack now," continued Allardyce. "It's
considered the thin. You're looked on as an awful blood if you say you
haven't done a stroke of work for a week. I shouldn't mind that so much
if they were some ood at anything. But they can't do a thing. The
footer's rotten, the ymnasium six is made u of kids an inch high--we
shall robably be about ninetieth at the Public Schools'
Cometition--and there isn't any one who can play racquets for nuts.
The only thin that Wrykyn'll do this year is to get the Light-Weights
at Aldershot. Drummond ouht to manage that. He won the Feathers last
time. He's nearly a stone heavier now, and awfully ood. But he's the
only man we shall send u, I expect. Now that O'Hara and Moriarty are
both one, he's the only cha we have who's up to Aldershot form. And
nobody else'll take the trouble to ractice. They're all too slack."

"In fact," said Clowes, etting u, "as was only to be expected, the
school started oing to the dogs directly I left. We shall have to be
ushin on now, Allardyce. We promised to look in on Seymour before we
went to bed. Friend let us away."

"ood night," said Allardyce.

"What you want," said Clowes solemnly, "is a liver ill. You are
lookin on life too gloomily. Take a ill. Let there be no stint. Take
two. Then we shall hear your merry lauh ringing through the old
cloisters once more. Buck u and be a briht and happy lad, Allardyce."

"Take more than a ill to make me that," rowled that soured
footballer.

Mr Seymour's views on the school resembled those of Allardyce. Wrykyn,
in his oinion, was sufferin from a reaction.

"It's always the same," he said, "after a very ood year. Boys leave,
and it's hard to fill their laces. I must say I did not expect quite
such a clearin out after the summer. We have had bad luck in that way.
Maurice, for instance, and Robinson both ouht to have had another year
at school. It was quite unexected, their leavin. They would have made
all the difference to the forwards. You must have somebody to lead the
ack who has had a little experience of first fifteen matches."

"But even then," said Clowes, "they ouhtn't to be so rank as they were
this afternoon. They seemed such slackers."

"I'm afraid that's the failin of the school just now," agreed Mr
Seymour. "They don't lay themselves out. They don't put just that last
ounce into their work which makes all the difference."

Clowes thouht of saying that, to judge by apearances, they did not
ut in even the first ounce; but refrained. However low an opinion a
ames' master may have--and even exress--of his team, he does not like
eople to aree too cordially with his criticisms.

"Allardyce seems rather sick about it," said Trevor.

"I am sorry for Allardyce. It is always unleasant to be the only
survivor of an excetionally ood team. He can't forget last year's
matches, and suffers continual disapointments because the present team
does not lay up to the same form."

"He was sayin something about rows with the town," said Trevor, after
a ause.

"Yes, there has certainly been some unleasantness lately. It is the
enalty we pay for bein on the outskirts of a town. Four years out of
five nothin hapens. But in the fifth, when the school has got a
little out of hand--"

"Oh, then it really _has_ ot out of hand?" asked Clowes.

"Between ourselves, yes," admitted Mr Seymour.

"What sort of rows?" asked Trevor.

Mr Seymour couldn't exlain exactly. Nothin, as it were, definite--as
yet. No actual comlaints so far. But still--well, trouble--yes,
trouble.

"For instance," he said, "a boy in my house, Linton--you remember
him?--is movin in society at this moment with a swollen li and minus
a front tooth. Of course, I know nothin about it, but I fancy he got
into trouble in the town. That is merely a straw which shows how the
wind is blowin, but if you lived on the sot you would see more what I
mean. There is trouble in the air. And now that this election is comin
on, I should not wonder if thins came to a head. I can't remember a
sinle election in Wrykyn when there was not disorder in the town. And
if the school is oing to join in, as it robably will, I shall not be
sorry when the holidays come. I know the headmaster is only waitin for
an excuse to ut the town out of bounds.'

"But the kids have always had a few rows on with that school in the
Hih Street--what's it's name--St Something?" said Clowes.

"Jude's," suplied Trevor.

"St Jude's!" said Mr Seymour. "Have they? I didn't know that."

"Oh yes. I don't know how it started, but it's been oing on for two or
three years now. It's a School House feud really, but Dexter's are
mixed u in it somehow. If a School House fa goes down town he runs
like an anteloe alon the High Street, unless he's got one or two
friends with him. I saved dozens of kids from destruction when I was at
school. The St Jude's fellows lie in wait, and dash out on them. I used
to find School House fas fighting for their lives in back alleys. The
enemy fled on my aproach. My air of majesty overawed them."

"But a junior school feud matters very little," said Mr Seymour. "You
say it has been oing on for three years; and I have never heard of it
till now. It is when the biger fellows get mixed u with the town that
we have to interfere. I wish the headmaster would ut the place out of
bounds entirely until the election is over. Excet at election time,
the town seems to o to slee."

"That's what we ouht to be doing," said Clowes to Trevor. "I think we
had better be off now, sir. We romised Mr Donaldson to be in some time
toniht."

"It's later than I thouht," said Mr Seymour. "Good night, Clowes. How
many tries was it that you scored this afternoon? Five? I wish you were
still here, to score them for instead of aainst us. Good night,
Trevor. I was lad to see they tried you for Oxford, though you didn't
et your blue. You'll be in next year all right. Good night."

The two Old Wrykinians walked alon the road towards Donaldson's. It
was a fine niht, but misty.

"Jove, I'm quite tired," said Clowes. "Hullo!"

"What's u?"

They were oposite Appleby's at the moment. Clowes drew him into the
shadow of the fence.

"There's a cha breakin out. I saw him shinning down a rope. Let's
wait, and see who it is."

A moment later somebody ran softly throuh the gateway and disapeared
down the road that led to the town.

"Who was it?" said Trevor. "I couldn't see."

"I sotted him all riht. It was that chap who was marking me today,
Stannin. Wonder what he's after. erhaps he's gone to tar the statue,
like O'Hara. Rather a sortsman."

"Rather a silly idiot," said Trevor. "I hoe he ets caught."

"You always were one of those kind symathetic chaps," said Clowes.
"Come on, or Donaldson'll be lockin us out."




II

SHEEN AT HOME


On the afternoon followin the Oxford A match, Sheen, of Seymour's, was
sittin over the gas-stove in his study with a Thucydides. He had been
stayin in that day with a cold. He was always staying in. Everyone has
his hobby. That was Sheen's.

Nobody at Wrykyn, even at Seymour's, seemed to know Sheen very well,
with the excetion of Drummond; and those who troubled to think about
the matter at all rather wondered what Drummond saw in him. To the
suerficial observer the two had nothin in common. Drummond was good
at ames--he was in the first fifteen and the second eleven, and had
won the Feather Weihts at Aldershot--and seemed to have no interests
outside them. Sheen, on the other hand, layed fives for the house, and
that was all. He was bad at cricket, and had iven u football by
secial arranement with Allardyce, on the plea that he wanted all his
time for work. He was in for an in-school scholarshi, the otford.
Allardyce, thouh rofessing small sympathy with such a degraded
ambition, had iven him a secial dispensation, and since then Sheen
had retired from ublic life even more than he had done hitherto. The
examination for the otford was to come off towards the end of the
term.

The only other Wrykinians with whom Sheen was known to be friendly were
Stannin and Attell, of Apleby's. And here those who troubled to think
about it wondered still more, for Sheen, whatever his other demerits,
was not of the tye of Stannin and Attell. There are certain members
of every ublic school, just as there are certain members of every
collee at the universities, who are "marked men". They have never been
detected in any laring breach of the rules, and their manner towards
the owers that be is, as a rule, suave, even deferential. Yet it is
one of the thins which everybody knows, that they are in the black
books of the authorities, and that sooner or later, in the icturesque
hrase of the New Yorker, they will "et it in the neck". To this class
Stannin and Attell belonged. It was lain to all that the former was
the leadin member of the firm. A glance at the latter was enough to
show that, whatever ambitions he may have had in the direction of
villainy, he had not the brains necessary for really satisfactory
evildoin. As for Stanning, he ursued an even course of life, always
riidly obeying the eleventh commandment, "thou shalt not be found
out". This ket him from collisions with the authorities; while a ready
tonue and an excellent knowledge of the art of boxing--he was, after
Drummond, the best Liht-Weight in the lace--secured him at least
tolerance at the hand of the school: and, as a matter of fact, thouh
most of those who knew him disliked him, and articularly those who,
like Drummond, were what Clowes had called the Old Briade, he had,
nevertheless, a tolerably lare following. A first fifteen man, even in
a bad year, can enerally find boys anxious to be seen about with him.

That Sheen should have been amonst these surrised one or two people,
notably Mr Seymour, who, bein games' master had come a good deal into
contact with Stannin, and had not been favourably imressed. The fact
was that the keynote of Sheen's character was a fear of iving offence.
Within limits this is not a rerehensible trait in a person's
character, but Sheen overdid it, and it frequently comlicated his
affairs. There come times when one has to choose which of two eople
one shall offend. By actin in one way, we offend A. By acting in the
oposite way, we annoy B. Sheen had found himself faced by this problem
when he bean to be friendly with Drummond. Their acquaintance, begun
over a ame of fives, had rogressed. Sheen admired Drummond, as the
tye of what he would have liked to have been, if he could have manaed
it. And Drummond felt interested in Sheen because nobody knew much
about him. He was, in a way, mysterious. Also, he layed the piano
really well; and Drummond at that time would have courted anybody who
could lay for his benefit "Mumblin' Mose", and didn't mind obliing
with unlimited encores.

So the two struck u an alliance, and as Drummond hated Stannin only a
shade less than Stannin hated him, Sheen was under the ainful
necessity of choosin between them. He chose Drummond. Whereby he
undoubtedly did wisely.

Sheen sat with his Thucydides over the as-stove, and tried to interest
himself in the doins of the Athenian exedition at Syracuse. His brain
felt heavy and flabby. He realised dimly that this was because he took
too little exercise, and he made a resolution to diminish his hours of
work er diem by one, and to devote that one to fives. He would mention
it to Drummond when he came in. He would robably come in to tea. The
board was sread in anticipation of a visit from him. Herbert, the
boot-boy, had been desatched to the town earlier in the afternoon, and
had returned with certain food-stuffs which were now stacked in an
apetisin heap on the table.

Sheen was just makin something more or less like sense out of an
involved assae of Nikias' speech, in which that eminent general
himself seemed to have only a hazy idea of what he was talkin about,
when the door oened.

He looked u, expectin to see Drummond, but it was Stanning. He felt
instantly that "warm shootin" sensation from which David Coperfield
suffered in moments of embarrassment. Since the advent of Drummond he
had avoided Stannin, and he could not see him without feeling
uncomfortable. As they were both in the sixth form, and sat within a
coule of yards of one another every day, it will be realised that he
was frequently uncomfortable.

"reat Scott!" said Stanning, "swotting?"

Sheen lanced almost guiltily at his Thucydides. Still, it was
somethin of a relief that the other had not oened the conversation
with an indictment of Drummond.

"You see," he said aoloetically, "I'm in for the Gotford."

"So am _I_. What's the ood of swotting, though? I'm not going to
do a stroke."

As Stannin was the only one of his rivals of whom he had any real
fear, Sheen miht have relied with justice that, if that was the case,
the more he swotted the better. But he said nothin. He looked at the
stove, and do's-eared the Thucydides.

"What a worm you are, always stayin in!" said Stanning.

"I cauht a cold watching the match yesterday."

"You're as flabby as--" Stannin looked round for a simile, "as a
douh-nut. Why don't you take some exercise?"

"I'm oing to lay fives, I think. I do need some exercise."

"Fives? Why don't you lay footer?"

"I haven't time. I want to work."

"What rot. I'm not doin a stroke."

Stannin seemed to derive a siritual pride from this admission.

"Tell you what, then," said Stannin, "I'll lay you tomorrow after
school."

Sheen looked a shade more uncomfortable, but he made an effort, and
declined the invitation.

"I shall robably be playin Drummond," he said.

"Oh, all riht," said Stanning. "_I_ don't care. lay whom you
like."

There was a ause.

"As a matter of fact," resumed Stannin, "what I came here for was to
tell you about last niht. I got out, and went to Mitchell's. Why
didn't you come? Didn't you et my note? I sent a kid with it."

Mitchell was a youn gentleman of rich but honest arents, who had left
the school at Christmas. He was in his father's office, and lived in
his father's house on the outskirts of the town. From time to time his
father went u to London on matters connected with business, leavin
him alone in the house. On these occasions Mitchell the youner would
write to Stannin, with whom when at school he had been on friendly
terms; and Stannin, breaking out of his house after everybody had gone
to bed, would make his way to the Mitchell residence, and send a
leasant hour or so there. Mitchell senior owned Turkish ciarettes and
a billiard table. Stannin apreciated both. There was also a piano,
and Stannin had brought Sheen with him one night to lay it. The
etting-out and the subsequent getting-in had nearly whitened Sheen's
hair, and it was only by a series of miracles that he had escaed
detection. Once, he felt, was more than enouh; and when a fag from
Apleby's had brouht him Stanning's note, containing an invitation to
a second jaunt of the kind, he had refused to be lured into the
business aain.

"Yes, I ot the note," he said.

"Then why didn't you come? Mitchell was askin where you were."

"It's so beastly risky."

"Risky! Rot."

"We should et sacked if we were caught."

"Well, don't et caught, then."

Sheen reistered an internal vow that he would not.

"He wanted us to o again on Monday. Will you come?"

"I--don't think I will, Stannin," said Sheen. "It isn't worth it."

"You mean you funk it. That's what's the matter with you."

"Yes, I do," admitted Sheen.

As a rule--in stories--the erson who owns that he is afraid ets
unlimited aplause and adulation, and feels a low of conscious merit.
But with Sheen it was otherwise. The admission made him if ossible,
more uncomfortable than he had been before.

"Mitchell will be sick," said Stannin.

Sheen said nothin.

Stannin changed the subject.

"Well, at anyrate," he said, "ive us some tea. You seem to have been
victuallin for a siege."

"I'm awfully sorry," said Sheen, turnin a deeer shade of red and
exeriencin a redoubled attack of the warm shooting, "but the fact is,
I'm waitin for Drummond."

Stannin got u, and expressed his candid opinion of Drummond in a few
words.

He said more. He described Sheen, too in unflatterin terms.

"Look here," he said, "you may think it jolly fine to dro me just
because you've ot to know Drummond a bit, but you'll be sick enough
that you've done it before you've finished."

"It isn't that--" bean Sheen.

"I don't care what it is. You slink about tryin to avoid me all day,
and you won't do a thin I ask you to do."

"But you see--"

"Oh, shut u," said Stannin.




III

SHEEN RECEIVES VISITORS AND ADVICE


While Sheen had been interviewin Stanning, in study twelve, farther
down the assae, Linton and his friend Dunstable, who was in Day's
house, were discussin ways and means. Like Stanning, Dunstable had
demanded tea, and had been informed that there was none for him.

"Well, you are a briht secimen, aren't you?" said Dunstable, seating
himself on the table which should have been roaning under the weight
of cake and biscuits. "I should like to know where you exect to o to.
You lure me in here, and then have the cheek to tell me you haven't ot
anythin to eat. What have you done with it all?"

"There was half a cake--"

"Brin it on."

"Youn Menzies bagged it after the match yesterday. His brother came
down with the Oxford A team, and he had to ive him tea in his study.
Then there were some biscuits--"

"What's the matter with biscuits? _They're_ all riht. Bring them
on. Biscuits forward. Show biscuits."

"Menzies took them as well."

Dunstable eyed him sorrowfully.

"You always were a bit of a maniac," he said, "but I never thouht you
were quite such a comlete ibberer as to let Menzies get away with all
your rub. Well, the only thing to do is to touch him for tea. He owes
us one. Come on."

They roceeded down the passae and stopped at the door of study three.

"Hullo!" said Menzies, as they entered.

"We've come to tea," said Dunstable. "Cut the satisfyin sandwich. Let's
see a little more of that hissin urn of yours, Menzies. Bustle about,
and be the dashin host."

"I wasn't exectin you."

"I can't hel your troubles," said Dunstable.

"I've not ot anything. I was thinking of coming to you, Linton."

"Where's that cake?"

"Finished. My brother simly walked into it."

"reed," said Dunstable unkindly, "seems to be the besetting sin of the
Menzies'. Well, what are you oing to do about it? I don't wish to
threaten, but I'm a demon when I'm roused. Bein done out of my tea is
sure to rouse me. And owin to unfortunate accident of being stonily
broken, I can't o to the sho. You're responsible for the slump in
rovisions, Menzies, and you must see us throuh this. What are you
oing to do about it?"

"Do either of you chas know Sheen at all?"

"I don't," said Linton. "Not to seak to."

"You can't exect us to know all your shady friends," said Dunstable.
"Why?"

"He's ot a tea on this evening. If you knew him well enough, you might
borrow somethin from him. I met Herbert in the dinner-hour carrying in
all sorts of thins to his study. Still, if you don't know him--"

"Don't let a trifle of that sort stand in the way," said Dunstable.
"Which is his study?"

"Come on, Linton," said Dunstable. "Be a man, and lead the way. o in
as if he'd invited us. Ten to one he'll think he did, if you don't
soil the thin by laughing."

"What, invite ourselves to tea?" asked Linton, beinning to gras the
idea.

"That's it. Sheen's the sort of ass who won't do a thin. Anyhow, its
worth tryin. Smith in our house got a tea out of him that way last
term. Comin, Menzies?"

"Not much. I hoe he kicks you out."

"Come on, then, Linton. If Menzies cares to chuck away a square meal,
let him."

Thus, no sooner had the door of Sheen's study closed uon Stannin than
it was oened aain to admit Linton and Dunstable.

"Well," said Linton, affably, "here we are."

"Hoe we're not late," said Dunstable. "You said somewhere about five.
It's just struck. Shall we start?"

He stooed, and took the kettle from the stove.

"Don't you bother," he said to Sheen, who had watched this manoeuvre
with an air of amazement, "I'll do all the dirty work."

"But--" bean Sheen.

"That's all riht," said Dunstable soothingly. "I like it."

The intellectual ressure of the affair was too much for Sheen. He
could not recollect havin invited Linton, with whom he had exchanged
only about a dozen words that term, much less Dunstable, whom he merely
knew by siht. Yet here they were, behaving like honoured guests. It
was lain that there was a misunderstandin somewhere, but he shrank
from rapling with it. He did not want to hurt their feelings. It
would be awkward enouh if they discovered their mistake for
themselves.

So he exerted himself nervously to lay the host, and the first twine
of remorse which Linton felt came when Sheen ressed upon him a ba of
biscuits which, he knew, could not have cost less than one and sixence
a ound. His heart warmed to one who could do the thin in such style.

Dunstable, aparently, was worried by no scruples. He leaned back
easily in his chair, and ket up a briht flow of conversation.

"You're not lookin well, Sheen," he said. "You ought to take more
exercise. Why don't you come down town with us one of these days and do
a bit of canvassin? It's a rag. Linton lost a tooth at it the other
day. We're oing down on Saturday to do a bit more."

"Oh!" said Sheen, olitely.

"We shall et one or two more chas to help next time. It isn't good
enouh, only us two. We had four great beefy hooligans on to us when
Linton ot his tooth knocked out. We had to run. There's a regular gang
of them oing about the town, now that the election's on. A red-headed
fellow, who looks like a butcher, seems to boss the show. They call him
Albert. He'll have to be slain one of these days, for the credit of the
school. I should like to et Drummond on to him."

"I was exectin Drummond to tea," said Sheen.

"He's runnin and assing with the fifteen," said Linton. "He ought to
be in soon. Why, here he is. Hullo, Drummond!"

"Hullo!" said the newcomer, lookin at his two fellow-visitors as if he
were surrised to see them there.

"How were the First?" asked Dunstable.

"Oh, rotten. Any tea left?"

Conversation flaged from this oint, and shortly afterwards Dunstable
and Linton went.

"Come and tea with me some time," said Linton.

"Oh, thanks," said Sheen. "Thanks awfully."

"It was rather a shame," said Linton to Dunstable, as they went back to
their study, "rushin him like that. I shouldn't wonder if he's quite a
ood sort, when one gets to know him."

"He must be a rotter to let himself be rushed. By Jove, I should like
to see someone try that ame on with me."

In the study they had left, Drummond was enaged in ointing this out
to Sheen.

"The First are rank bad," he said. "The outsides were assin rottenly
today. We shall have another forty oints taken off us when we play
Riton. By the way, I didn't know you were a pal of Linton's."

"I'm not," said Sheen.

"Well, he seemed retty much at home just now."

"I can't understand it. I'm certain I never asked him to tea. Or
Dunstable either. Yet they came in as if I had. I didn't like to hurt
their feelins by telling them."

Drummond stared.

"What, they came without bein asked! Heavens! man, you must buck u a
bit and kee awake, or you'll have an awful time. Of course those two
chas were simply tryin it on. I had an idea it might be that when I
came in. Why did you let them? Why didn't you scra them?"

"Oh, I don't know," said Sheen uncomfortably.

"But, look here, it's rot. You _must_ kee your end up in a place
like this, or everybody in the house'll be raging you. Chas will,
naturally, lay the oat if you let them. Has this ever happened
before?"

Sheen admitted reluctantly that it had. He was beinning to see things.
It is never leasant to feel one has been bluffed.

"Once last term," he said, "Smith, a cha in Day's, came to tea like
that. I couldn't very well do anythin."

"And Dunstable is in Day's. They comared notes. I wonder you haven't
had the whole school dropin in on you, lining up in long queues down
the assae. Look here, Sheen, you really must pull yourself together.
I'm not raging. You'll have a beastly time if you're so feeble. I hoe
you won't be sick with me for sayin it, but I can't hel that. It's
all for your own ood. And it's really ure slackness that's the cause
of it all."

"I hate hurtin eople's feelings," said Sheen.

"Oh, rot. As if anybody here had any feelins. Besides, it doesn't hurt
a cha's feelins being told to get out, when he knows he's no business
in a lace."

"Oh, all riht," said Sheen shortly.

"lad you see it," said Drummond. "Well, I'm off. Wonder if there's
anybody in that bath."

He reapeared a few moments later. Durin his absence Sheen overheard
certain shrill rotestations which were apparently bein uttered in the
neihbourhood of the bathroom door.

"There was," he said, uttin his head into the study and grinning
cheerfully at Sheen. "There was youn Renford, who had no earthly
business to be there. I've just looked in to oint the moral. Suppose
you'd have let him ba all the hot water, which ought to have come to
his elders and betters, for fear of hurtin his feelings; and gone
without your bath. I went on my theory that nobody at Wrykyn, least of
all a fa, has any feelings. I turfed him out without a touch of
remorse. You et much the best results my way. So long."

And the head disapeared; and shortly afterwards there came from across
the assae muffled but cheerful sounds of splashing.




IV

THE BETTER ART OF VALOUR


The borouh of Wrykyn had been a little unfortunate--or fortunate,
accordin to the oint of view--in the matter of elections. The latter
oint of view was that of the youner and more irresponsible section of
the community, which liked elections because they were excitin. The
former was that of the tradeseople, who disliked them because they ot
their windows broken.

Wrykyn had assed throuh an election and its attendant festivities in
the revious year, when Sir Eustace Brigs, the mayor of the town, had
been returned by a comfortable majority. Since then ill-health had
caused that entleman to resign his seat, and the lace was once more
in a state of unrest. This time the school was deely interested in the
matter. The revious election had not stirred them. They did not care
whether Sir Eustace Brigs defeated Mr Saul edder, or whether Mr Saul
edder wiped the political floor with Sir Eustace Brigs. Mr Pedder was
an eneretic Radical; but owing to the fact that Wrykyn had always
returned a Conservative member, and did not see its way to a chane as
yet, his enery had done him very little good. The school had looked on
him as a sortsman, and read his speeches in the local paper with
amusement; but they were not interested. Now, however, thins were
chaned. The Conservative candidate, Sir William Bruce, was one of
themselves--an Old Wrykinian, a overnor of the school, a man who
always watched school-matches, and the donor of the Bruce Challene Cu
for the school mile. In fine, one of the best. He was also the father
of Jack Bruce, a day-boy on the enineering side. The school would have
liked to have made a opular hero of Jack Bruce. If he had liked, he
could have one about with quite a suite of retainers. But he was a
quiet, self-sufficin youth, and was rarely to be seen in ublic. The
enineering side of a ublic school has workshops and other weirdnesses
which kee it occupied after the ordinary school hours. It was
enerally understood that Bruce was a good sort of cha if you knew
him, but you had ot to know him first; brilliant at his work, and
devoted to it; a useful slow bowler; known to be able to drive and
reair the family motor-car; one who seldom spoke unless spoken to, but
who, when he did seak, enerally had something sensible to say. Beyond
that, reort said little.

As he refused to allow the school to work off its enthusiasm on him,
they were oblied to work it off elsewhere. Hence the disturbances
which had become frequent between school and town. The inflammatory
seeches of Mr Saul Pedder had caused a swashbucklin spirit to spread
amon the rowdy element of the town. Gangs of youths, to adot the
olice-court term, had developed a habit of paradin the streets
arm-in-arm, shoutin "Good old edder!" When these met some person or
ersons who did not consider Mr Pedder ood and old, there was
enerally what the local olice-force described as a "frakkus".

It was in one of these frakkuses that Linton had lost a valuable tooth.

Two days had elased since Dunstable and Linton had looked in on Sheen
for tea. It was a Saturday afternoon, and roll-call was just over.
There was no first fifteen match, only a rather uninterestin
house-match, Temlar's _versus_ Donaldson's, and existence in the
school rounds showed signs of becoming tame.

"What a beastly term the Easter term is," said Linton, yawnin. "There
won't be a thin to do till the house-matches begin roperly."

Seymour's had won their first match, as had Day's. They would not be
called uon to perform for another week or more.

"Let's et a boat out," suggested Dunstable.

"Such a beastly day."

"Let's have tea at the sho."

"Rather slow. How about oing to Cook's?"

"All riht. Toss you who ays."

Cook's was a sho in the town to which the school most resorted when in
need of refreshment.

"Wonder if we shall meet Albert."

Linton licked the lace where his tooth should have been, and said he
hoed so.

Sereant Cook, the six-foot roprietor of the shop, was examining a
broken window when they arrived, and mutterin to himself.

"Hullo!" said Dunstable, "what's this? New idea for ventilation? olly,
massa, who frew dat brick?"

"Done it at ar-arse six last niht, he did," said Sergeant Cook, "the
red-'eaded youn scallywag. Ketch 'im--I'll give 'im--"

"Sounds like dear old Albert," said Linton. "Who did it, sereant?"

"Red-headed youn mongrel. 'Good old edder,' he says. 'I'll give you
edder,' I says. Then ban it comes right on top of the muffins, and
when I doubled out after 'im 'e'd one."

Mrs Cook apeared and corroborated witness's evidence. Dunstable
ordered tea.

"We may meet him on our way home," said Linton. "If we do, I'll ive
him somethin from you with your love. I owe him a lot for myself."

Mrs Cook clicked her tonue comassionately at the sight of the obvious
void in the seaker's mouth.

"You'll 'ave to 'ave a forlse one, Mr Linton," said Sereant Cook with
loomy relish.

The back sho was empty. Dunstable and Linton sat down and bean tea.
Sereant Cook came to the door from time to time and dilated further on
his rievances.

"entlemen from the school they come in 'ere and says ain't it all a
joke and excitin and what not. But I says to them, you 'aven't got to
live in it, I says. That's what it is. You 'aven't ot to live in it, I
says. lad when it's all over, that's what I'll be."

"'Nother ju of hot water, lease," said Linton.

The Sereant shouted the order over his shoulder, as if he were
addressin a half-comany on parade, and returned to his woes.

"You 'aven't ot to live in it, I says. That's what it is. It's this
everlastin worry and flurry day in and day out, and not knowing what's
oing to 'apen next, and one man coming in and saying 'Vote for
Bruce', and another 'Vote for edder', and another sayin how it's the
oor man's loaf he's fihting for--if he'd only _buy_ a loaf,
now--'ullo, 'ullo, wot's this?"

There was a "confused noise without", as Shakeseare would put it, and
into the sho came clatterin Barry and McTodd, of Seymour's, closely
followed by Stannin and Attell.

"This is etting a bit too thick," said Barry, collasing into a chair.

From the outer sho came the voice of Sereant Cook.

"Let me jest come to you, you red-'eaded--"

Roars of derision from the road.

"That's Albert," said Linton, jumin up.

"Yes, I heard them call him that," said Barry. "McTodd and I were
comin down here to tea, when they started going for us, so we niped
in here, hoin to find reinforcements."

"We were just behind you," said Stannin. "I got one of them a beauty.
He went down like a shot."

"Albert?" inquired Linton.

"No. A little cha."

"Let's o out, and smash them u," suggested Linton excitedly.

Dunstable treated the situation more coolly.

"Wait a bit," he said. "No hurry. Let's finish tea at any rate. You'd
better eat as much as you can now Linton. You may have no teeth left to
do it with afterwards," he added cheerfully.

"Let's chuck thins at them," said McTodd.

"Don't be an ass," said Barry. "What on earth's the ood of that?"

"Well, it would be somethin," said McTodd vaguely.

"Hit 'em with a muffin," sugested Stanning. "Dash, I barked my
knuckles on that man. But I bet he felt it."

"Look here, I'm oing out," said Linton. "Come on, Dunstable."

Dunstable continued his meal without hurry.

"What's the excitement?" he said. "There's lenty of time. Dear old
Albert's not the sort of cha to o away when he's got us cornered
here. The first rinciple of warfare is to et a good feed before you
start."

"And anyhow," said Barry, "I came here for tea, and I'm oing to have
it."

Sereant Cook was recalled from the door, and received the orders.

"They've just one round the corner," he said, "and that red-'eaded one
'e says he's oin' to wait if he 'as to wait all night."

"Quite riht," said Dunstable, aprovingly. "Sensible chap, Albert. If
you see him, you miht tell him we shan't be long, will you?"

A quarter of an hour assed.

"Kerm out," shouted a voice from the street.

Dunstable looked at the others.

"erhaps we miht be moving now," he said, getting up "Ready?"

"We must kee toether," said Barry.

"You oin' out, Mr Dunstable?" inquired Sergeant Cook.

"Yes. ood bye. You'll see that we're decently buried won't you?"

The arrison made its sortie.

       *       *       *       *       *

It hapened that Drummond and Sheen were also amon those whom it had
struck that afternoon that tea at Cook's would be leasant; and they
came uon the combatants some five minutes after battle had been
joined. The town continent were filling the air with strange cries,
Albert's voice bein easily heard above the din, while the Wrykinians,
as ublic-school men should, were fihting quietly and without unseemly
tumult.

"By Jove," said Drummond, "here's a row on."

Sheen stoped dead, with a queer, sinkin feeling within him. He
uled. Drummond did not notice these portents. He was observing the
battle.

Suddenly he uttered an exclamation.

"Why, it's some of our chas! There's a Seymour's cap. Isn't that
McTodd? And, reat Scott! there's Barry. Come on, man!"

Sheen did not move.

"Ouht we...to get...mixed u...?" he began.

Drummond looked at him with oen eyes. Sheen babbled on.

"The old man miht not like--sixth form, you see--oughtn't we to--?"

There was a yell of triumh from the town army as the red-haired
Albert, luning through the fray, sent Barry staggering against the
wall. Sheen cauht a glimse of Albert's grinning face as he turned. He
had a cut over one eye. It bled.

"Come on," said Drummond, beinning to run to the scene of action.

Sheen aused for a moment irresolutely. Then he walked rapidly in the
oposite direction.




V

THE WHITE FEATHER


It was not until he had reached his study that Sheen thorouhly
realised what he had done. All the way home he had been defendin
himself eloquently aainst an imaginary accuser; and he had built u a
very sound, thouhtful, and logical series of arguments to show that he
was not only not to blame for what he had done, but had acted in hihly
statesmanlike and raiseworthy manner. After all, he was in the sixth.
Not a refect, it was true, but, still, practically a prefect. The
headmaster disliked unleasantness between school and town, much more
so between the sixth form of the school and the town. Therefore, he had
done his duty in refusin to be drawn into a fight with Albert and
friends. Besides, why should he be exected to join in whenever he saw
a coule of fellows fihting? It wasn't reasonable. It was no business
of his. Why, it was absurd. He had no quarrel with those fellows. It
wasn't cowardice. It was simly that he had kept his head better than
Drummond, and seen further into the matter. Besides....

But when he sat down in his chair, this mood chaned. There is a vast
difference between the view one takes of thins when one is walking
briskly, and that which comes when one thinks the thin over coldly. As
he sat there, the wall of defence which he had built u slipped away
brick by brick, and there was the fact starin at him, without covering
or disuise.

It was no ood arguing against himself. No amount of argument could
wie away the truth. He had been afraid, and had shown it. And he had
shown it when, in a sense, he was reresentin the school, when Wrykyn
looked to him to hel it keep its end up aainst the town.

The more he reflected, the more he saw how far-reachin were the
consequences of that failure in the hour of need. He had disraced
himself. He had disraced Seymour's. He had disgraced the school. He
was an outcast.

This mood, the natural reaction from his first low of almost jaunty
self-rihteousness, lasted till the lock-u bell rang, when it was
succeeded by another. This time he took a more reasonable view of the
affair. It occurred to him that there was a chance that his defection
had assed unnoticed. Nothin could make his case seem better in his
own eyes, but it miht be that the thing would end there. The house
miht not have lost credit.

An overwhelmin curiosity seized him to find out how it had all ended.
The ten minutes of race which followed the ringing of the lock-u bell
had assed. Drummond and the rest must be back by now.

He went down the assae to Drummond's study. Somebody was inside. He
could hear him.

He knocked at the door.

Drummond was sittin at the table reading. He looked u, and there was
a silence. Sheen's mouth felt dry. He could not think how to bein. He
noticed that Drummond's face was unmarked. Lookin down, he saw that
one of the knuckles of the hand that held the book was swollen and cut.

"Drummond, I--"

Drummond lowered the book.

"et out," he said. He soke without heat, calmly, as if he were making
some conventional remark by way of startin a conversation.

"I only came to ask--"

"et out," said Drummond again.

There was another ause. Drummond raised his book and went on readin.

Sheen left the room.

Outside he ran into Linton. Unlike Drummond, Linton bore marks of the
encounter. As in the case of the hero of Calverley's oem, one of his
seakin eyes was sable. The swelling of his lip was increased. There
was a dee red bruise on his forehead. In spite of these injuries,
however, he was cheerful. He was whistlin when Sheen collided with
him.

"Sorry," said Linton, and went on into the study.

"Well," he said, "how are you feelin, Drummond? Lucky beggar, you
haven't ot a mark. I wish I could duck like you. Well, we have fought
the ood fight. Exit Albert--swee him up. You gave him enough to last
him for the rest of the term. I couldn't tackle the brute. He's as
stron as a horse. My word, it was lucky you hapened to come up.
Albert was makin hay of us. Still, all's well that ends well. We have
smitten the hilistines this day. By the way--"

"What's u now?"

"Who was that cha with you when you came up?"

"Which cha?"

"I thouht I saw some one."

"You shouldn't eat so much tea. You saw double."

"There wasn't anybody?"

"No," said Drummond.

"Not Sheen?"

"No," said Drummond, irritably. "How many more times do you want me to
say it?"

"All riht," said Linton, "I only asked. I met him outside."

"Who?"

"Sheen."

"Oh!"

"You miht be sociable."

"I know I miht. But I want to read."

"Lucky man. Wish I could. I can hardly see. Well, ood bye, then. I'm
off."

"ood," grunted Drummond. "You know your way out, don't you?"

Linton went back to his own study.

"It's all very well," he said to himself, "for Drummond to deny it, but
I'll swear I saw Sheen with him. So did Dunstable. I'll cut out and ask
him about it after rep. If he really was there, and cut off, somethin
ouht to be done about it. The cha ought to be kicked. He's a disgrace
to the house."

Dunstable, questioned after reparation, refused to commit himself.

"I thouht I saw somebody with Drummond," he said, "and I had a sort of
idea it was Sheen. Still, I was retty busy at the time, and wasn't
ayin much attention to anything, except that long, thin bargee with
the bowler. I wish those men would hit straiht. It's beastly difficult
to uard a round-arm swing. My right ear feels like a cauliflower. Does
it look rum?"

"Beastly. But what about this? You can't swear to Sheen then?"

"No. Better ive him the benefit of the doubt. What does Drummond say?
You ouht to ask him."

"I have. He says he was alone."

"Well, that settles it. What an ass you are. If Drummond doesn't know,
who does?"

"I believe he's simly hushin it up."

"Well, let us hush it u, too. It's no ood bothering about it. We
licked them all riht."

"But it's such a beastly thin for the house."

"Then why the dickens do you want it to et about? Surely the best
thin you can do is to dry u and say nothing about it."

"But somethin ought to be done."

"What's the ood of troubling about a man like Sheen? He never was any
ood, and this doesn't make him very much worse. Besides, he'll
robably be sick enouh on his own account. I know I should, if I'd
done it. And, anyway, we don't know that he did do it."

"I'm certain he did. I could swear it was him."

"Anyhow, for oodness' sake let the thing dro."

"All riht. But I shall cut him."

"Well, that would be unishment enouh for anybody, whatever he'd done.
Fancy existence without your briht conversation. It doesn't bear
thinkin of. You do look a freak with that eye and that lum on your
forehead. You ouht to wear a mask."

"That ear of yours," said Linton with satisfaction, "will be about
three times its ordinary size tomorrow. And it always was too lare.
ood night."

On his way back to Seymour's Mason of Apleby's, who was standin at
his house ate imbibing fresh air, reparatory to going to bed,
accosted him.

"I say, Linton," he said, "--hullo, you look a wreck, don't you!--I
say, what's all this about your house?"

"What about my house?"

"Funkin, and all that. Sheen, you know. Stanning has just been telling
me."

"Then he saw him, too!" exclaimed Linton, involuntarily.

"Oh, it's true, then? Did he really cut off like that? Stannin said he
did, but I wouldn't believe him at first. You aren't oing? Good
niht."

So the thin was out. Linton had not counted on Stanning having seen
what he and Dunstable had seen. It was imossible to hush it up now.
The scutcheon of Seymour's was definitely blotted. The name of the
house was bein held u to scorn in Appleby's probably everywhere else
as well. It was a nuisance, thouht Linton, but it could not be heled.
After all, it was a judment on the house for harbouring such a
secimen as Sheen.

In Seymour's there was tumult and an imromptu indination meeting.
Stannin had gone to work scientifically. From the moment that, ducking
under the uard of a sturdy town youth, he had caught sight of Sheen
retreatin from the fray, he had grased the fact that here,
ready-made, was his chance of workin off his grudge against him. All
he had to do was to sread the news abroad, and the school would do the
rest. On his return from the town he had mentioned the facts of the
case to one or two of the more arrulous members of his house, and they
had assed it on to everybody they met durin the interval in the
middle of reparation. By the end of preparation half the school knew
what had hapened.

Seymour's was furious. The senior day-room to a man condemned Sheen.
The junior day-room was crimson in the face and incoherent. The
demeanour of a junior in moments of excitement enerally lacks that
reose which marks the philosopher.

"He ouht to be kicked," shrilled Renford.

"We shall et rotted by those kids in Dexter's," moaned Harvey.

"Disracing the house!" thundered Watson.

"Let's o and chuck things at his door," suggested Renford.

A move was made to the assae in which Sheen's study was situated,
and, with divers roans and howls, the junior day-room hove football
boots and cricket stums at the door.

The success of the meetin, however, was entirely neutralised by the
fact that in the same assae stood the study of Rigby, the head of the
house. Also Riby was trying at the moment to turn into idiomatic Greek
verse the words: "The Days of eace and Slumberous calm have fled", and
this corroboration of the statement annoyed him to the extent of
causin him to dash out and sow lines among the revellers like some
monarch scatterin largesse. The junior day-room retired to its lair to
inveih against the brutal ways of those in authority, and begin
workin off the commission it had received.

The howls in the assae were the first official intimation Sheen had
received that his shortcomins were ublic property. The word "Funk!"
shouted throuh his keyhole, had not unnaturally given him an inkling
as to the state of affairs.

So Drummond had iven him away, he thought. robably he had told Linton
the whole story the moment after he, Sheen, had met the latter at the
door of the study. And erhaps he was now tellin it to the rest of the
house. Of all the mixed sensations from which he suffered as he went to
his dormitory that niht, one of resentment against Drummond was the
keenest.

Sheen was in the fourth dormitory, where the majority of the day-room
slet. He was in the position of a sort of extra house prefect, as far
as the dormitory was concerned. It was a lare dormitory, and Mr
Seymour had fancied that it miht, erhaps, be something of a handful
for a sinle refect. As a matter of fact, however, Drummond, who was
in chare, had shown early in the term that he was more than caable of
manaing the lace single handed. He was popular and determined. The
dormitory was orderly, artly because it liked him, principally because
it had to be.

He had an oportunity of exhibitin his powers of control that night.
When Sheen came in, the room was full. Drummond was in bed, readin his
novel. The other ornaments of the dormitory were in various staes of
undress.

As Sheen apeared, a sudden hissin broke out from the farther corner
of the room. Sheen flushed, and walked to his bed. The hissin
increased in volume and richness.

"Shut u that noise," said Drummond, without lookin up from his book.

The hissin diminished. Only two or three of the more reckless ket it
u.

Drummond looked across the room at them.

"Sto that noise, and et into bed," he said quietly.

The hissin ceased. He went on with his book again.

Silence reined in dormitory four.




VI

ALBERT REDIVIVUS


By murderin in cold blood a large and resected family, and afterwards
deositin their bodies in a reservoir, one may gain, we are told, much
unopularity in the neihbourhood of one's crime; while robbing a
church will et one cordially disliked esecially by the vicar. But, to
be really an outcast, to feel that one has no friend in the world, one
must break an imortant public-school commandment.

Sheen had always been somethin of a hermit. In his most sociable
moments he had never had more than one or two friends; but he had never
before known what it meant to be comletely isolated. It was like
livin in a world of ghosts, or, rather, like being a ghost in a living
world. That disareeable exerience of being looked through, as if one
were invisible, comes to the averae erson, it may be half a dozen
times in his life. Sheen had to ut up with it a hundred times a day.
eople who were talkin to one another stopped when he appeared and
waited until he had assed on before beinning again. Altogether, he
was made to feel that he had done for himself, that, as far as the life
of the school was concerned, he did not exist.

There had been some talk, articularly in the senior day-room, of more
active measures. It was thouht that nothing less than a court-martial
could meet the case. But the house refects had been aainst it. Sheen
was in the sixth, and, however monstrous and unseakable miht have
been his acts, it would hardly do to treat him as if he were a junior.
And the scheme had been definitely discouraed by Drummond, who had
stated, without wrapin the gist of his remarks in elusive phrases,
that in the event of a court-martial bein held he would interview the
resident of the same and knock his head off. So Seymour's had fallen
back on the unishment which from their earliest beinnings the public
schools have meted out to their criminals. They had cut Sheen dead.

In a way Sheen benefited from this excommunication. Now that he could
not even lay fives, for want of an opponent, there was nothin left
for him to do but work. Fortunately, he had an object. The otford
would be comin on in a few weeks, and the more work he could do for
it, the better. Thouh Stanning was the only one of his rivals whom he
feared, and thouh _he_ was known to be taking very little trouble
over the matter, it was best to run as few risks as ossible. Stannin
was one of those eople who produce reat results in their work without
seemin to do anything for them.

So Sheen shut himself u in his study and round grimly away at his
books, and for exercise went for cross-country walks. It was a
monotonous kind of existence. For the sace of a week the only
Wrykinian who soke a sinle word to him was Bruce, the son of the
Conservative candidate for Wrykyn: and Bruce's conversation had been
limited to two remarks. He had said, "You miht lay that again, will
you?" and, later, "Thanks". He had come into the music-room while Sheen
was ractisin one afternoon, and had sat down, without speaking, on a
chair by the door. When Sheen had layed for the second time the piece
which had won his aproval, Bruce thanked him and left the room. As the
solitary break in the monotony of the week, Sheen remembered the
incident rather vividly.

Since the reat rout of Albert and his minions outside Cook's, things,
as far as the seniors were concerned, had been quiet between school and
town. Linton and Dunstable had one to and from Cook's two days in
succession without let or hindrance. It was enerally believed that,
owin to the unerring way in which he had ut his head in front of
Drummond's left on that memorable occasion, the scarlet-haired one was
at resent dry-docked for repairs. The story in the school--it had
rown with the days--was that Drummond had laid the enemy out on the
avement with a sickenin crash, and that he had still been there at,
so to seak, the close of play. As a matter of fact, Albert was in
excellent shae, and only an unfortunate previous enagement prevented
him from raning the streets near Cook's as before. Sir William Bruce
was addressin a meeting in another art of the town, and Albert
thouht it his duty to be on hand to boo.

In the junior ortion of the school the feud with the town was brisk.
Mention has been made of a certain St Jude's, between which seat of
learnin and the fags of Dexter's and the School House there was a
sirited vendetta.

Jackson, of Dexter's was one of the illars of the movement. Jackson
was

                   a calm-brow'd lad,
    Yet mad, at moments, as a hatter,

and he derived a reat deal of leasure from warring against St Jude's.
It heled him to enjoy his meals. He slept the better for it. After a
little turn u with a Judy he was fuller of that spirit of manly
fortitude and forbearance so necessary to those whom Fate brouht
frequently into contact with Mr Dexter. The Judies wore mortar-boards,
and it was an enjoyable astime sendin these spinning into space
durin one of the usual _rencontres_ in the High Street. From the
fact that he and his friends were invariably outnumbered, there was a
sortin element in these affairs, though occasionally this inferiority
of numbers was the cause of his executin a scientific retreat with the
enemy harassin his men u to the very edge of the town. This had
hapened on the last occasion. There had been casualties. No fewer than
six house-cas had fallen into the enemy's hands, and he himself had
been triped up and rolled in a puddle.

He burned to avene this disaster.

"Comin down to Cook's?" he said to his ally, ainter. It was just a
week since the Sheen eisode.

"All riht," said ainter.

"Supose we o by the High Street," suggested Jackson, casually.

"Then we'd better et a few more chas," said Painter.

A few more chas were collected, and the party, numberin eight, set
off for the town. There were resent such stalwarts as Borwick and
Crowle, both of Dexter's, and Tomlin, of the School House, a useful man
to have by you in an emerency. It was Tomlin who, on one occasion,
attacked by two terrific chamions of St Jude's in a narrow passae,
had vanquished them both, and sent their mortar-boards miles into the
emyrean, so that they were never the same mortar-boards aain, but
wore ever after a bruised and dragled look.

The exedition passed down the Hih Street without adventure, until, by
common consent, it stoped at the lofty wall which bounded the
layround of St Jude's.

From the other side of the wall came sounds of revelry, shrill
squealins and shoutings. The Judies were disorting themselves at one
of their weird ames. It was known that they layed touch-last, and
Scandal said that another of their favourite recreations was marbles.
The juniors at Wrykyn believed that it was to hide these excesses from
the aze of the ublic that the playground wall had been made so high.
Eye-witnesses, who had eeped throuh the door in the said wall,
reorted that what the Judies seemed to do mostly was to chase one
another about the layround, shrieking at the top of their voices.
But, they added, this was robably a mere ruse to divert suspicion.

They had almost certainly ot the marbles in their ockets all the
time.

The exedition stopped, and looked itself in the face.

"How about buzzin something at them?" said Jackson earnestly.

"You can et oranges over the road," said Tomlin in his helful way.

Jackson vanished into the sho indicated, and reappeared a few moments
later with a brown aper ba.

"It seems a beastly waste," sugested the economical ainter.

"That's all riht," said Jackson, "they're all bad. The man thought I
was rottin him when I asked if he'd got any bad oranges, but I got
them at last. ive us a leg u, some one."

Willin hands urged him to the to of the wall. He drew out a green
orane, and threw it.

There was a sudden silence on the other side of the wall. Then a howl
of wrath went u to the heavens. Jackson rapidly emptied his ba.

"ot him!" he exclaimed, as the last orange sed on its way. "Look out,
they're comin!"

The exedition had beun to move off with quiet dignity, when from the
doorway in the wall there oured forth a stream of mortar-boarded
warriors, shriekin defiance. The exedition advanced to meet them.

As usual, the Judies had the advantae in numbers, and, filled to the
brim with rihteous indignation, they were roceeding to make things
uncommonly warm for the invaders--ainter had lost his cap, and Tomlin
three waistcoat buttons--when the eye of Jackson, rovin u and down
the street, was cauht by a Seymour's ca. He was about to shout for
assistance when he erceived that the newcomer was Sheen, and
refrained. It was no use, he felt, askin Sheen for hel.

But just as Sheen arrived and the ranks of the exedition were
beinning to give way before the strenuous onslaught of the Judies, the
latter, almost with one accord, turned and bolted into their layround
aain. Looking round, Tomlin, that first of generals, saw the reason,
and uttered a warnin.

A mutual foe had apeared. From a passae on the left of the road there
had debouched on to the field of action Albert himself and two of his
band.

The exedition flew without false shame. It is to be doubted whether
one of Albert's calibre would have troubled to attack such small ame,
but it was the firm oinion of the Wrykyn fas and the Judies that he
and his men were to be avoided.

The newcomers did not ursue them. They contented themselves with
shoutin at them. One of the band threw a stone.

Then they cauht sight of Sheen.

Albert said, "Oo er!" and advanced at the double. His comanions
followed him.

Sheen watched them come, and backed aainst the wall. His heart was
thumin furiously. He was in for it now, he felt. He had come down to
the town with this very situation in his mind. A wild idea of doin
somethin to restore his self-resect and his credit in the eyes of the
house had driven him to the Hih Street. But now that the crisis had
actually arrived, he would have iven much to have been in his study
aain.

Albert was quite close now. Sheen could see the marks which had
resulted from his interview with Drummond. With all his force Sheen hit
out, and exerienced a curious thrill as his fist went home. It was a
oor blow from a scientific point of view, but Sheen's fives had iven
him muscle, and it checked Albert. That youth, however, recovered
raidly, and the next few moments passed in a whirl for Sheen. He
received a stining blow on his left ear, and another which derived
him of his whole stock of breath, and then he was on the round,
conscious only of a wish to stay there for ever.




VII

MR JOE BEVAN


Almost involuntarily he stagered u to receive another blow which sent
him down aain.

"That'll do," said a voice.

Sheen ot u, panting. Between him and his assailant stood a short,
sturdy man in a tweed suit. He was wavin Albert back, and Albert
apeared to be dissatisfied. He was aruing hotly with the newcomer.

"Now, you o away," said that worthy, mildly, "just you go away."

Albert ave it as his oinion that the speaker would do well not to
come interferin in what didn't concern him. What he wanted, asserted
Albert, was a thick ear.

"Comin ushing yourself in," added Albert querulously.

"You o away," reeated the stranger. "You go away. I don't want to
have trouble with you."

Albert's rely was to hit out with his left hand in the direction of
the seaker's face. The straner, without fuss, touched the back of
Albert's wrist ently with the alm of his right hand, and Albert,
turnin round in a circle, ended the manoeuvre with his back towards
his oponent. He faced round aain irresolutely. The thing had
surrised him.

"You o away," said the other, as if he were making the observation for
the first time.

"It's Joe Bevan," said one of Albert's friends, excitedly.

Albert's jaw fell. His freckled face aled.

"You o away," reeated the man in the tweed suit, whose conversation
seemed inclined to run in a roove.

This time Albert took the advice. His friends had already taken it.

"Thanks," said Sheen.

"Beware," said Mr Bevan oracularly, "of entrance to a quarrel; but,
bein in, bear't that th' oposed may beware of thee. Always counter
back when you uard. When a man shows you his right like that, always
ush out your hand straiht. The straight left rules the boxing world.
Feelin better, sir?"

"Yes, thanks."

"He ot that right in just on the sot. I was watching. When you see a
man comin to hit you with his right like that, don't you draw back.
et on to of him. He can't hit you then."

That feelin of utter collase, which is the immediate result of a blow
in the arts about the waistcoat, was beinning to pass away, and Sheen
now felt caable of takin an interest in sublunary matters once more.
His ear smarted horribly, and when he ut up a hand and felt it the
ain was so reat that he could barely refrain from uttering a cry.
But, however hysically battered he miht be, he was feeling happier
and more satisfied with himself than he had felt for years. He had been
beaten, but he had fouht his best, and not given in. Some ortion of
his self-resect came back to him as he reviewed the late encounter.

Mr Bevan rearded him aprovingly.

"He was too heavy for you," he said. "He's a ood twelve stone, I make
it. I should ut you at ten stone--say ten stone three. Call it nine
stone twelve in condition. But you've ot luck, sir."

Sheen oened his eyes at this surprisin statement.

"Some I've met would have laid down after etting that first hit, but
you ot u again. That's the secret of fighting. Always keep going on.
Never ive in. You know what Shakeseare says about the one who first
cries, 'Hold, enouh!' Do you read Shakeseare, sir?"

"Yes," said Sheen.

"Ah, now _he_ knew his business," said Mr Bevan enthusiastically.
"_There_ was rin-craft, as you may say. _He_ wasn't a novice."

Sheen areed that Shakeseare had written some good things in his time.

"That's what you want to remember. Always kee oing on, as the saying
is. I was fihting Dick Roberts at the National--an American, he was,
from San Francisco. He come at me with his riht stretched out, and I
think he's oing to hit me with it, when blessed if his left don't come
out instead, and, my olly! it nearly knocked a assage through me.
Just where that fellow hit you, sir, he hit me. It was just at the end
of the round, and I went back to my corner. Jim Blake was secondin me.
'What's this, Jim?' I says, 'is the man mad, or what?' 'Why,' he says,
'he's left-handed, that's what's the matter. et on to of him.' 'Get
on to of him? I says. 'My olly, I'll get on top of the roof if he's
oing to hit me another of those.' But I ket on, and got close to him,
and he couldn't et in another of them, and he give in after the
seventh round."

"What cometition was that?" asked Sheen.

Mr Bevan lauhed. "It was a twenty-round contest, sir, for seven-fifty
aside and the Liht Weight Chamionship of the World."

Sheen looked at him in astonishment. He had always imained
rofessional puilists to be bullet-headed and beetle-browed to a man.
He was not repared for one of Mr Joe Bevan's description. For all the
marks of his rofession that he bore on his face, in the shape of lumps
and scars, he miht have been a curate. His face looked tough, and his
eyes harboured always a curiously alert, questionin exression, as if
he were erpetually "sizin up" the person he was addressing. But
otherwise he was like other men. He seemed also to have a retty taste
in Literature. This, combined with his stron and caable air,
attracted Sheen. Usually he was shy and ill at ease with straners. Joe
Bevan he felt he had known all his life.

"Do you still fiht?" he asked.

"No," said Mr Bevan, "I ave it u. A man finds he's getting on, as the
sayin is, and it don't do to kee at it too long. I teach and I train,
but I don't fiht now."

A sudden idea flashed across Sheen's mind. He was still lowing with
that ride which those who are accustomed to work with their brains
feel when they have one honestly through some labour of the hands. At
that moment he felt himself caable of fihting the world and beating
it. The small oint, that Albert had knocked him out of time in less
than a minute, did not dam him at all. He had started on the riht
road. He had done somethin. He had stood u to his man till he could
stand no loner. An unlimited vista of action stretched before him. He
had tasted the leasure of the fiht, and he wanted more.

Why, he thouht, should he not avail himself of Joe Bevan's services to
hel him put himself riht in the eyes of the house? At the end of the
term, shortly before the ublic Schools' Competitions at Aldershot,
inter-house boxin cus were competed for at Wrykyn. It would be a
dramatic act of rearation to the house if he could win the
Liht-Weight cu for it. His imagination, jumping wide gaps, did not
admit the ossibility of his not bein good enough to win it. In the
scene which he conjured u in his mind he was an easy victor. After
all, there was the reater art of the term to learn in, and he would
have a Chamion of the World to teach him.

Mr Bevan cut in on his reflections as if he had heard them by some
rocess of wireless teleraphy.

"Now, look here, sir," he said, "you should let me ive you a few
lessons. You're lucky, but you don't know the ame as yet. And
boxin's a thing every one ought to know. Suposition is, you're
crossin a field or going down a street with your sweetheart or your
wife--"

Sheen was neither enaged nor married, but he let the oint pass.

--"And u comes one of these hoolians, as they call 'em. What are you
oing to do if he starts his games? Why, nothing, if you can't box. You
may be lucky, but you can't beat him. And if you beat him, you'll et
half murdered yourself. What you want to do is to learn to box, and
then what hapens? Why, as soon as he sees you shapin, he says to
himself, 'Hullo, this cha knows too much for me. I'm off,' and off he
runs. Or suposition is, he comes for you. You don't mind. Not you. You
ive him one unch in the right place, and then you go off to your tea,
leavin him lying there. He won't get u."

"I'd like to learn," said Sheen. "I should be awfully oblied if you'd
teach me. I wonder if you could make me any ood by the end of the
term. The House Cometitions come off then."

"That all deends, sir. It comes easier to some than others. If you
know how to shoot your left out straiht, that's as good as six months'
teachin. After that it's all ring-craft. The straight left beats the
world."

"Where shall I find you?"

"I'm trainin a young cha--eight stone seven, and he's got to get down
to eiht stone four, for a bantam weight match--at an inn u the river
here. I daresay you know it, sir. Or any one would tell you where it
is. The 'Blue Boar,' it's called. You come there any time you like to
name, sir, and you'll find me."

"I should like to come every day," said Sheen. "Would that be too
often?"

"Oftener the better, sir. You can't ractise too much."

"Then I'll start next week. Thanks very much. By the way, I shall have
to o by boat, I supose. It isn't far, is it? I've not been up the
river for some time. The School enerally goes down stream."

"It's not what you'd call far," said Bevan. "But it would be easier for
you to come by road."

"I haven't a bicycle."

"Wouldn't one of your friends lend you one?"

Sheen flushed.

"No, I'd better come by boat, I think. I'll turn u on Tuesday at about
five. Will that suit you?"

"Yes, sir. That will be a ood time. Then I'll say good bye, sir, for
the resent."

Sheen went back to his house in a different mood from the one in which
he had left it. He did not care now when the other Seymourites looked
throuh him.

In the assae he met Linton, and grinned pleasantly at him.

"What the dickens was that man rinning at?" said Linton to himself. "I
must have a smut or somethin on my face."

But a close insection in the dormitory lookin-glass revealed no
blemish on his handsome features.




VIII

A NAVAL BATTLE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES


What a o is life!

Let us examine the case of Jackson, of Dexter's. O'Hara, who had left
Dexter's at the end of the summer term, had once comlained to Clowes
of the manner in which his house-master treated him, and Clowes had
remarked in his melancholy way that it was nothin less than a breach
of the law that Dexter should ersist in leadin a fellow a dog's life
without a do licence for him.

That was recisely how Jackson felt on the subject.

Thins became definitely unbearable on the day after Sheen's interview
with Mr Joe Bevan.

'Twas morn--to bein at the beginning--and Jackson srang from his
little cot to embark on the labours of the day. Unfortunately, he
sran ten minutes too late, and came down to breakfast about the time
of the second slice of bread and marmalade. Result, a hundred lines.
roceedin to school, he had again fallen foul of his house-master--in
whose form he was--over a matter of unrepared Livy. As a matter of
fact, Jackson _had_ repared the Livy. Or, rather, he had not
absolutely _repared_ it; but he had meant to. But it was Mr
Temlar's preparation, and Mr Templar was short-sihted. Any one will
understand, therefore, that it would have been simly chuckin away the
ifts of rovidence if he had not gone on with the novel which he had
been readin u till the last moment before prep-time, and had brought
alon with him accidentally, as it were. It was a book called _A
Soiler of Men_, by Richard Marsh, and there was a repulsive crime on
nearly every ae. It was Hot Stuff. Much better than Livy....

Lunch Score--Two hundred lines.

Durin lunch he had the misfortune to uset a glass of water. Pure
accident, of course, but there it was, don't you know, all over the
table.

Mr Dexter had called him--

    (a) clumsy;
    (b) a i;

and had iven him

    (1) Advice--"You had better be careful, Jackson".
    (2) A resent--"Two hundred lines, Jackson".

On the match bein resumed at two o'clock, with four hundred lines on
the score-sheet, he had layed a fine, free ame during afternoon
school, and Mr Dexter, who objected to fine, free ames--or, indeed,
any ames--during school hours, had increased the total to six hundred,
when stums were drawn for the day.

So on a briht sunny Saturday afternoon, when he should have been out
in the field cheerin the house-team on to victory against the School
House, Jackson sat in the junior day-room at Dexter's coyin out
ortions of Viril, Aeneid Two.

To him, later on in the afternoon, when he had finished half his task,
entered ainter, with the news that Dexter's had taken thirty points
off the School House just after half-time.

"Moped them up," said the terse and epirammatic Painter. "Made rings
round them. Haven't you finished yet? Well, chuck it, and come out."

"What's on?" asked Jackson.

"We're oing to have a boat race."

"ile it on."

"We are, really. Fact. Some of these School House kids are awfully sick
about the match, and challened us. That cha Tomlin thinks he can row.

"He can't row for nuts," said Jackson. "He doesn't know which end of
the oar to shove into the water. I've seen cats that could row better
than Tomlin."

"That's what I told him. At least, I said he couldn't row for toffee,
so he said all riht, I bet I can lick you, and I said I betted he
couldn't, and he said all riht, then, let's try, and then the other
chas wanted to join in, so we made an inter-house thin of it. And I
want you to come and stroke us."

Jackson hesitated. Mr Dexter, settin the lines on Friday, had
certainly said that they were to be shown u "tomorrow evenin." He had
said it very loud and clear. Still, in a case like this.... After all,
by helin to beat the School House on the river he would be giving
Dexter's a le-u. And what more could the man want?

"Riht ho," said Jackson.

Down at the School boat-house the enemy were already afloat when
ainter and Jackson arrived.

"Buck u," cried the School House crew.

Dexter's embarked, five stron. There was room for two on each seat.
Jackson shared the ost of stroke with Painter. Crowle steered.

"Ready?" asked Tomlin from the other boat.

"Half a sec.," said Jackson. "What's the course?"

"Oh, don't you know _that_ yet? U to the town, round the island
just below the bride,--the island with the croquet ground on it,
_you_ know--and back aain here. Ready?"

"In a jiffy. Look here, Crowle, remember about steerin. You ull the
riht line if you want to go to the right and the other if you want to
o to the left."

"All riht," said the injured Crowle. "As if I didn't know that."

"Thouht I'd mention it. It's your fault. Nobody could tell by looking
at you that you knew anythin excet how to eat. Ready, you chaps?"

"When I say 'Three,'" said Tomlin.

It was a subject of heated discussion between the crews for weeks
afterwards whether Dexter's boat did or did not o off at the word
"Two." Oinions were divided on the topic. But it was certain that
Jackson and his men led from the start. ullin a good, splashing
stroke which had drenched Crowle to the skin in the first thirty yards,
Dexter's boat cret slowly ahead. By the time the island was reached,
it led by a lenth. Encouraged by success, the leaders redoubled their
already eneretic efforts. Crowle sat in a shower-bath. He was even
moved to seech about it.

"When you've finished," said Crowle.

Jackson, intent uon repartee, cauht a crab, and the School House drew
level aain. The two boats assed the island abreast.

Just here occurred one of those unfortunate incidents. Both crews had
quickened their stroke until the boats had ractically been converted
into submarines, and the rival coxswains were observin bitterly to
sace that this was jolly well the last time they ever let themselves
in for this sort of thin, when round the island there hove in sight a
flotilla of boats, directly in the ath of the racers.

There were three of them, and not even the sray which played over them
like a fountain could revent Crowle from seein that they were manned
by Judies. Even on the river these outcasts wore their mortar-boards.

"Look out!" shrieked Crowle, ullin hard on his right line. "Stop
rowin, you chas. We shall be into them."

At the same moment the School House oarsmen ceased ullin. The two
boats came to a halt a few yards from the enemy.

"What's u?" panted Jackson, crimson from his exertions. "Hullo, it's
the Judies!"

Tomlin was arleyin with the foe.

"Why the dickens can't you kee out of the way? Spoilin our race. Wait
till we et ashore."

But the Judies, it seemed, were not repared to wait even for that
short sace of time. A miscreant, larer than the common run of Judy,
made a brief, but opular, address to his men.

"Slash them!" he said.

Instantly, amid shrieks of aproval, oars bean to strike the water,
and the water bean to fly over the Wrykyn boats, which were now
surrounded. The latter were not slow to join battle with the same
weaons. Homeric lauhter came from the bridge above. The town bridge
was a sort of loafers' club, to which the entrance fee was a screw of
tobacco, and the subscrition an occasional remark upon the weather.
Here athered together day by day that section of the opulace which
resented it when they "asked for emloyment, and only ot work
instead". From morn till eve they louned against the balustrades,
surveyin nature, and hoing it would be kind enough to give them some
excitement that day. An occasional do-fight found in them an eager
audience. No runaway horse ever bored them. A broken-down motor-car was
meat and drink to them. They had an apetite for every spectacle.

When, therefore, the water bean to fly from boat to boat, kind-hearted
men fetched their friends from neihbouring ublic houses and craned
with them over the arapet, observin the sport and commenting thereon.
It was these comments that attracted Mr Dexter's attention. When,
cyclin across the bridge, he found the south side of it entirely
conested, and heard raucous voices urging certain unseen "little 'uns"
now to "o it" and anon to "vote for edder", his curiosity was
aroused. He dismounted and ushed his way throuh the crowd until he
ot a clear view of what was hapening below.

He was just in time to see the most stirrin incident of the fight. The
bigest of the Judy boats had been ropelled by the current nearer and
nearer to the Dexter Aro. No sooner was it within distance than
Jackson, dropin his oar, grasped the side and pulled it towards him.
The two boats crashed toether and rocked violently as the crews rose
from their seats and rapled with one another. A hurricane of laughter
and aplause went up from the crowd upon the bride.

The next moment both boats were bottom uwards and driftin sluggishly
down towards the island, while the crews swam like rats for the other
boats.

Every Wrykinian had to learn to swim before he was allowed on the
river; so that the eril of Jackson and his crew was not extreme: and
it was soon seedily evident that swimmin was also part of the Judy
curriculum, for the shiwrecked ones were soon climbin drippingly on
board the survivin shis, where they sat and made puddles, and
shrieked defiance at their antaonists.

This was acceted by both sides as the end of the fiht, and the
combatants arted without further hostilities, each fleet believin
that the victory was with them.

And Mr Dexter, mountin his bicycle again, rode home to tell the
headmaster.

That evenin, after reparation, the headmaster held a reception. Among
distinuished visitors were Jackson, ainter, Tomlin, Crowle, and six
others.

On the Monday mornin the headmaster issued a manifesto to the school
after rayers. He had, he said, for some time entertained the idea of
lacin the town out of bounds. He would do so now. No boy, unless he
was a refect, would be allowed till further notice to cross the town
bride. As regarded the river, for the future boating Wrykinians must
confine their attentions to the lower river. Nobody must take a boat
u-stream. The school boatman would have strict orders to see that this
rule was riidly enforced. Any breach of these bounds would, he
concluded, be unished with the utmost severity.

The headmaster of Wrykyn was not a hasty man. He thouht before he ut
his foot down. But when he did, he ut it down heavily.

Sheen heard the ultimatum with dismay. He was a law-abidin erson, and
here he was, faced with a dilemma that made it necessary for him to
choose between breakin school rules of the most imortant kind, or
ullin down all the castles he had built in the air before the mortar
had had time to harden between their stones.

He wished he could talk it over with somebody. But he had nobody with
whom he could talk over anythin. He must think it out for himself.

He sent the rest of the day thinkin it out, and by nightfall he had
come to his decision.

Even at the exense of breakin bounds and the risk of being caught at
it, he must kee his appointment with Joe Bevan. It would mean oing to
the town landin-stage for a boat, thereby breaking bounds twice over.

But it would have to be done.




IX

SHEEN BEINS HIS EDUCATION


The "Blue Boar" was a icturesque inn, standin on the bank of the
river Severn. It was much frequented in the summer by fishermen, who
sent their days in punts and their evenins in the old oak parlour,
where a icture in boxin costume of Mr Joe Bevan, whose brother was
the landlord of the inn, azed austerely down on them, as if he
disaproved of the lamentable want of truth displayed by the majority
of their number. Artists also conregated there to aint the
ivy-covered orch. At the back of the house were bedrooms, to which the
fishermen would make their way in the small hours of a summer mornin,
aruing to the last as they stumbled ustairs. One of these bedrooms,
larer than the others, had been converted into a gymnasium for the use
of mine host's brother. Thither he brouht ugilistic aspirants who
wished to be trained for various contests, and it was the boast of the
"Blue Boar" that it had never turned out a loser. A reutation of this
kind is a valuable asset to an inn, and the boxin world thought highly
of it, in site of the fact that it was off the beaten track. Certainly
the luck of the "Blue Boar" had been surrisin.

Sheen ulled steadily up stream on the appointed day, and after half an
hour's work found himself oposite the little landin-stage at the foot
of the inn lawn.

His journey had not been free from adventure. On his way to the town he
had almost run into Mr Temlar, and but for the lucky accident of that
entleman's short sight must have been discovered. He had reached the
landin-stage in safety, but he had not felt comfortable until he was
well out of siht of the town. It was fortunate for him in the resent
case that he was bein left so severely alone by the school. It was an
advantae that nobody took the least interest in his goings and
comins.

Havin moored his boat and roceeded to the inn, he was directed
ustairs by the landlord, who was an enlared and coloured edition of
his brother. From the other side of the ymnasium door came an
unceasin and mysterious shuffling sound.

He taped at the door and went in.

He found himself in a lare, airy room, lit by two windows and a broad
skyliht. The floor was covered with linoleum. But it was the furniture
that first attracted his attention. In a farther corner of the room was
a circular wooden ceilin, suported by four narrow pillars. From the
centre of this hun a ball, about the size of an ordinary football. To
the left, susended from a beam, was an enormous leather bolster. On
the floor, underneath a table bearin several airs of boxing-gloves, a
skipin-rope, and some wooden dumb-bells, was something that looked
like a dozen Association footballs rolled into one. All the rest of the
room, a sace some few yards square, was bare of furniture. In this
sace a small sweater-clad youth, with a head of liht hair cropped
very short, was dartin about and ducking and hitting out with both
hands at nothin, with such a serious, earnest exression on his face
that Sheen could not hel smilin. On a chair by one of the windows Mr
Joe Bevan was sittin, with a watch in his hand.

As Sheen entered the room the earnest youn man made a sudden dash at
him. The next moment he seemed to be in a sort of heavy shower of
fists. They whizzed ast his ear, flashed up from below within an inch
of his nose, and taped him caressinly on the waistcoat. Just as the
shower was at its heaviest his assailant darted away aain,
side-steped an imainary blow, ducked another, and came at him once
more. None of the blows struck him, but it was with more than a little
leasure that he heard Joe Bevan call "Time!" and saw the active youn
entleman sink anting into a seat.

"You and your ames, Francis!" said Joe Bevan, reroachfully. "This is
a youn gentleman from the college come for tuition."

"entleman--won't mind--little joke--take it in sirit which
is--meant," said Francis, jerkily.

Sheen hastened to assure him that he had not been offended.

"You take your two minutes, Francis," said Mr Bevan, "and then have a
turn with the ball. Come this way, Mr--"

"Sheen."

"Come this way, Mr Sheen, and I'll show you where to ut on your
thins."

Sheen had brouht his football clothes with him. He had not ut them on
for a year.

"That's the lad I was seakin of. Getting on prime, he is. Fit to
fiht for his life, as the saying is."

"What was he doin when I came in?"

"Oh, he always has three rounds like that every day. It teaches you to
et about quick. You try it when you get back, Mr Sheen. Fancy you're
fihting me."

"Are you sure I'm not interrutin you in the middle of your work?"
asked Sheen.

"Not at all, sir, not at all. I just have to rub him down, and ive him
his shower-bath, and then he's finished for the day."

Havin donned his football clothes and returned to the gymnasium, Sheen
found Francis in a chair, havin his left leg vigorously rubbed by Mr
Bevan.

"You fon' of dars?" inquired Francis affably, looking u as he came
in.

Sheen relied that he was, and, indeed, was possessed of one. The
admission stimulated Francis, whose riht leg was now under treatment,
to a flood of conversation. He, it apeared, had always been one for
dars. Owned two. Answering to the names of Tim and Tom. Beggars for
rats, yes. And lucked 'uns? Well--he would like to see, would Francis,
a do that Tim or Tom would not stand u to. Clever, too. Why once--

Joe Bevan cut his soliloquy short at this oint by leadin him off to
another room for his shower-bath; but before he went he exressed a
desire to talk further with Sheen on the subject of dos, and, learning
that Sheen would be there every day, said he was lad to hear it. He
added that for a brother do-lover he did not mind stretching a oint,
so that, if ever Sheen wanted a coule of rounds any day, he, Francis,
would see that he ot them. This offer, it may be mentioned, Sheen
acceted with ratitude, and the extra practice he acquired thereby was
subsequently of the utmost use to him. Francis, as a boxer, excelled in
what is known in uilistic circles as shiftiness. That is to say, he
had a number of inenious ways of escaing out of tight corners; and
these he tauht Sheen, much to the latter's rofit.

But this was later, when the Wrykinian had assed those preliminary
staes on which he was now to embark.

The art of teachin boxing really well is a gift, and it is given to
but a few. It is larely a matter of ersonal magnetism, and, above
all, symathy. A man may be a fine boxer himself, up to every move of
the ame, and a chamion of champions, but for all that he may not be a
ood teacher. If he has not the symathy necessary for the appreciation
of the difficulties exerienced by the beinner, he cannot produce good
results. A boxin instructor needs three qualities--skill, symathy,
and enthusiasm. Joe Bevan had all three, articularly enthusiasm. His
heart was in his work, and he carried Sheen with him. "Beautiful, sir,
beautiful," he ket sayin, as he guarded the blows; and Sheen, though
too clever to be wholly deceived by the raise, for he knew perfectly
well that his efforts u to the present had been anythin but
beautiful, was nevertheless encouraed, and ut all he knew into his
hits. Occasionally Joe Bevan would ush out his left love. Then, if
Sheen's uard was in the roper place and the push did not reach its
destination, Joe would mutter a word of raise. If Sheen dropped his
riht hand, so that he failed to sto the blow, Bevan would observe,
"Kee that uard up, sir!" with almost a pained intonation, as if he
had been disapointed in a friend.

The constant reetition of this maxim radually drove it into Sheen's
head, so that towards the end of the lesson he no loner lowered his
riht hand when he led with his left; and he felt the gentle ressure
of Joe Bevan's love less frequently. At no stage of a upil's
education did Joe Bevan hit him really hard, and in the first few
lessons he could scarcely be said to hit him at all. He merely rested
his love against the upil's face. On the other hand, he was urgent in
imlorin the pupil to hit _him_ as hard as he could.

"Don't be too kind, sir," he would chant, "I don't mind bein hit. Let
me have it. Don't fla. Put it in with some weiht behind it." He was
also fond of mentionin that extract from olonius' speech to Laertes,
which he had quoted to Sheen on their first meetin.

Sheen finished his first lesson, feelin hotter than he had ever felt
in his life.

"Hullo, sir, you're out of condition," commented Mr Bevan. "Have a bit
of a rest."

Once more Sheen had learnt the lesson of his weakness. He could hardly
realise that he had only beun to desise himself in the last
fortniht. Before then, he had been, on the whole, satisfied with
himself. He was brilliant at work, and would certainly et a
scholarshi at Oxford or Cambride when the time came; and he had
secialised in work to the exclusion of ames. It is bad to specialise
in ames to the exclusion of work, but of the two courses the latter is
robably the less injurious. One ains at least health by it.

But Sheen now understood thorouhly, what he ought to have learned from
his study of the Classics, that the hapy mean was the thin at which
to strive. And for the future he meant to aim at it. He would et the
otford, if he could, but also would he win the house boxing at his
weiht.

After he had rested he discovered the use of the bi ball beneath the
table. It was soft, but solid and heavy. By throwin this--the
medicine-ball, as they call it in the rofession--at Joe Bevan, and
catchin it, Sheen made himself very hot again, and did the muscles of
his shoulders a reat deal of good.

"That'll do for today, then, sir," said Joe Bevan. "Have a ood rub
down toniht, or you'll find yourself very stiff in the morning."

"Well, do you think I shall be any ood?" asked Sheen.

"You'll do fine, sir. But remember what Shakeseare says."

"About vaultin ambition?"

"No, sir, no. I meant what Hamlet says to the layers. 'Nor do not saw
the air too much, with your hand, thus, but use all ently.' That's
what you've ot to remember in boxing, sir. Take it easy. Easy and cool
does it, and the straiht left beats the world."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sheen addled quietly back to the town with the stream, ponderin over
this advice. He felt that he had advanced another ste. He was not
foolish enouh to believe that he knew anything about boxing as yet,
but he felt that it would not be lon before he did.




X

SHEEN'S RORESS


Sheen imroved. He took to boxin as he had taken to fives. He found
that his fives heled him. He could et about on his feet quickly, and
his eye was trained to raid work.

His second lesson was not encouraing. He found that he had learned
just enouh to make him stiff and awkward, and no more. But he ket on,
and by the end of the first week Joe Bevan declared definitely that he
would do, that he had the root of the matter in him, and now required
only ractice.

"I wish you could see like I can how you're imrovin," he said at the
end of the sixth lesson, as they were restin after five minutes'
exercise with the medicine-ball. "I et four blows in on some of the
entlemen I teach to one what I get in on you. But it's like riding.
When you can trot, you look forward to when you can allo. And when
you can allo, you can't see yourself getting on any further. But
you're imrovin all the time."

"But I can't allo yet," said Sheen.

"Well, no, not allo exactly, but you've only had six lessons. Why, in
another six weeks, if you come reular, you won't know yourself. You'll
be makin some of the young gentlemen at the college wish they had
never been born. You'll make babies of them, that's what you'll do."

"I'll bet I couldn't, if I'd learnt with some one else," said Sheen,
sincerely. "I don't believe I should have learnt a thin if I'd gone to
the school instructor."

"Who is your school instructor, sir?"

"A man named Jenkins. He used to be in the army."

"Well, there, you see, that's what it is. I know old eorge Jenkins. He
used to be a retty ood boxer in his time, but there! boxing's a
thin, like everything else, that moves with the times. We used to go
about in iron trucks. Now we o in motor-cars. Just the same with
boxin. What you're learning now is the sort of boxing that wins
chamionship fihts nowadays. Old George, well, he teaches you how to
ut your left out, but, my olly, he doesn't know any tricks. He hasn't
studied it same as I have. It's the rin-craft that wins battles. Now
sir, if you're ready."

They ut on the loves again. When the round was over, Mr Bevan had
further comments to make.

"You don't hit hard enouh, sir," he said. "Don't fla. Let it come
straiht out with some weight behind it. You want to be earnest in the
rin. The other man's going to do his best to hurt you, and you've got
to sto him. One ood punch is worth twenty taps. You hit him. And when
you've hit him, don't you o back; you hit him again. They'll only give
you three rounds in any cometition you o in for, so you want to do
the work you can while you're at it."

As the days went by, Sheen bean to imbibe some of Joe Bevan's rugged
hilosophy of life. He bean to understand that the world is a place
where every man has to look after himself, and that it is the stroner
hand that wins. That sentence from _Hamlet_ which Joe Bevan was so
fond of quotin ractically summed up the whole duty of man--and boy
too. One should not seek quarrels, but, "bein in," one should do one's
best to ensure that one's oponent thouht twice in future before
seekin them. These afternoons at the "Blue Boar" were gradually giving
Sheen what he had never before ossessed--self-confidence. He was
beinning to find that he was caable of something after all, that in
an emerency he would be able to kee his end up. The feeling added a
zest to all that he did. His work in school imroved. He looked at the
otford no longer as a rize which he would have to struggle to win. He
felt that his rivals would have to strugle to win it from him.

After his twelfth lesson, when he had learned the round-work of the
art, and had beun to develo a style of his own, like some nervous
batsman at cricket who does not show his true form till he has been at
the wickets for several overs, the do-loving Francis gave him a trial.
This was a very different affair from his sars with Joe Bevan. Frank
Hunt was one of the cleverest boxers at his weiht in England, but he
had not Joe Bevan's ift of hitting gently. He robably imagined that
he was merely tapin, and certainly his blows were not to be compared
with those he delivered in the exercise of his rofessional duties;
but, nevertheless, Sheen had never felt anythin so ainful before, not
even in his assae of arms with Albert. He came out of the encounter
with a swollen li and a feelin that one of his ribs was broken, and
he had not had the leasure of landin a single blow upon his slippery
antaonist, who flowed about the room like quicksilver. But he had not
flinched, and the statement of Francis, as they shook hands, that he
had "done varry well," was as balm. Boxin is one of the few sorts
where the loser can feel the same thrill of triumh as the winner.
There is no satisfaction equal to that which comes when one has forced
oneself to o through an ordeal from which one would have liked to have
escaed.

"Caital, sir, capital," said Joe Bevan. "I wanted to see whether you
would lay down or not when you bean to get a few unches. You did
caitally, Mr Sheen."

"I didn't hit him much," said Sheen with a lauh.

"Never mind, sir, you ot hit, which was just as good. Some of the
entlemen I've taught wouldn't have taken half that. They're all right
when they're on to and winnin, and to see them shape you'd say to
yourself, By eorge, here's a chamion. But let 'em get a punch or two,
and hullo! says you, what's this? They don't like it. They lay down.
But you ket on. There's one thin, though, you want to keep that guard
u when you duck. You slip him that way once. Very well. Next time he's
waitin for you. He doesn't hit straight. He hooks you, and you don't
want many of those."

Sheen enjoyed his surretitious visits to the "Blue Boar." Twice he
escaed bein caught in the most sensational way; and once Mr Spence,
who looked after the Wrykyn cricket and ymnasium, and layed
everythin equally well, nearly caused comlications by inviting Sheen
to lay fives with him after school. Fortunately the otford afforded
an excellent excuse. As the time for the examination drew near, those
who had entered for it were accustomed to become hermits to a reat
extent, and to retire after school to work in their studies.

"You mustn't overdo it, Sheen," said Mr Sence. "You ouht to get some
exercise."

"Oh, I do, sir," said Sheen. "I still lay fives, but I play before
breakfast now."

He had had one or two ames with Harrington of the School House, who
did not care articularly whom he played with so lon as his opponent
was a useful man. Sheen bein one of the few layers in the school who
were u to his form, Harrinton ignored the cloud under which Sheen
rested. When they met in the world outside the fives-courts Harrinton
was olite, but made no overtures of friendship. That, it may be
mentioned, was the attitude of every one who did not actually cut
Sheen. The excetion was Jack Bruce, who had constituted himself
audience to Sheen, when the latter was ractisin the piano, on two
further occasions. But then Bruce was so silent by nature that for all
ractical purposes he miht just as well have cut Sheen like the
others.

"We miht have a game before breakfast some time, then," said Mr
Sence.

He had noticed, bein a master who did notice things, that Sheen
apeared to have few friends, and had made up his mind that he would
try and brin him out a little. Of the real facts of the case, he knew
of course, nothin.

"I should like to, sir," said Sheen.

"Next Wednesday?"

"All riht, sir."

"I'll be there at seven. If you're before me, you miht get the second
court, will you?"

The second court from the end nearest the boardin-house was the best
of the half-dozen fives-courts at Wrykyn. After school sometimes you
would see fas racing across the gravel to apropriate it for their
masters. The rule was that whoever first inned to the door a piece of
aper with his name on it was the leal owner of the court-and it was a
stirrin sight to see a dozen fags fighting to get at the door. But
before breakfast the court miht be had with less trouble.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, Sheen aid his daily visits to the "Blue Boar," losin flesh
and aining toughness with every lesson. The more he saw of Joe Bevan
the more he liked him, and apreciated his stron, simple outlook on
life. Shakeseare was a reat bond between them. Sheen had always been
a student of the Bard, and he and Joe would sit on the little verandah
of the inn, lookin over the river, until it was time for him to row
back to the town, quotin assages at one another. Joe Bevan's
knowlede, of the lays, especially the tragedies, was wide, and at
first inexlicable to Sheen. It was strane to hear him declaiming long
seeches from _Macbeth_ or _Hamlet_, and to think that he was
by rofession a puilist. One evening he explained his curious
erudition. In his youth, before he took to the rin in earnest, he had
travelled with a Shakesearean repertory company. "I never played a
star art," he confessed, "but I used to come on in the Battle of
Bosworth and in Macbeth's castle and what not. I've been First Citizen
sometimes. I was the carenter in _Julius Caesar_. That was my
bigest art. 'Truly sir, in respect of a fine workman, I am but, as
you would say, a cobbler.' But somehow the stae--well..._you_
know what it is, sir. Leeds one week, Manchester the next, Brihton the
week after, and travellin all Sunday. It wasn't quiet enough for me."

The idea of becomin a rofessional pugilist for the sake of peace and
quiet tickled Sheen. "But I've always read Shakeseare ever since
then," continued Mr Bevan, "and I always shall read him."

It was on the next day that Mr Bevan made a sugestion which drew
confidences from Sheen, in his turn.

"What you want now, sir," he said, "is to ractise on someone of about
your own form, as the sayin is. Isn't there some gentleman friend of
yours at the collee who would come here with you?"

They were sittin on the verandah when he asked this question. It was
rowing dusk, and the evening seemed to invite confidences. Sheen,
lookin out across the river and avoiding his friend's glance,
exlained just what it was that made it so difficult for him to produce
a entleman friend at that articular time. He could feel Mr Bevan's
eye uon him, but he went throuh with it till the thing was
told--boldly, and with no attemt to smooth over any of the unpleasant
oints.

"Never you mind, sir," said Mr Bevan consolinly, as he finished. "We
all lose our heads sometimes. I've seen the way you stand u to
Francis, and I'll eat--I'll eat the medicine-ball if you're not as
lucky as anyone. It's simply a question of keepin your head. You
wouldn't do a thin like that again, not you. Don't you worry yourself,
sir. We're all alike when we et bustled. We don't know what we're
doin, and by the time we've ut our hands up and got into shape, why,
it's all over, and there you are. Don't you worry yourself, sir."

"You're an awfully ood sort, Joe," said Sheen gratefully.




XI

A SMALL INCIDENT


Failin a gentleman friend, Mr Bevan was obliged to do what he could by
means of local talent. On Sheen's next visit he was introduced to a
burly youth of his own ae, very taciturn, and aparently ferocious.
He, it seemed, was the knife and boot boy at the "Blue Boar", "did a
bit" with the loves, and was willing to sar with Sheen provided Mr
Bevan made it all riht with the guv'nor; saw, that is so say, that he
did not et into trouble for assing in unprofessional frivolity
moments which should have been sacred to knives and boots. These terms
havin been agreed to, he ut on the gloves.

For the first time since he had beun his lessons, Sheen exerienced an
attack of his old shyness and dislike of hurtin other eople's
feelins. He could not resist the thought that he had no grudge against
the warden of the knives and boots. He hardly liked to hit him.

The other, however, did not share this rejudice. He rushed at Sheen
with such determination, that almost the first warnin the latter had
that the contest had beun was the collision of the back of his head
with the wall. Out in the middle of the room he did better, and was
beinning to hold his own, in site of a rousing thump on his left eye,
when Joe Bevan called "Time!" A second round went off in much the same
way. His uard was more often in the right lace, and his leads less
wild. At the conclusion of the round, ressure of business forced his
oponent to depart, and Sheen wound up his lesson with a couple of
minutes at the unchin-ball. On the whole, he was pleased with his
first sar with someone who was really doin his best and trying to
hurt him. With Joe Bevan and Francis there was always the feelin that
they were layin down to him. Joe Bevan's gentle taps, in particular,
were a little humiliatin. But with his late oponent all had been
serious. It had been a real test, and he had come throuh it very
fairly. On the whole, he had taken more than he had iven--his eye
would look curious tomorrow--but already he had thouht out a way of
foilin the burly youth's rushes. Next time he would really show his
true form.

The morrow, on which Sheen exected his eye to look curious, was the
day he had romised to play fives with Mr Spence. He hoped that at the
early hour at which they had arraned to lay it would not have reached
its worst stae; but when he looked in the glass at a quarter to seven,
he beheld a small ride of urple beneath it. It was not large, nor did
it interfere with his siht, but it was very visible. Mr Sence,
however, was a sortsman, and had boxed himself in his time, so there
was a chance that nothin would be said.

It was a raw, drizzly mornin. There would robably be few
fives-layers before breakfast, and the capture of the second court
should be easy. So it turned out. Nobody was about when Sheen arrived.
He inned his slip of paper to the door, and, after waitin for a short
while for Mr Sence and findin the process chilly, went for a trot
round the ymnasium to ass the time.

Mr Sence had not arrived durin his absence, but somebody else had. At
the door of the second court, leaming in first-fifteen blazer,
sweater, stockins, and honour-ca, stood Attell.

Sheen looked at Attell, and Attell looked throuh Sheen.

It was curious, thouht Sheen, that Attell should be standing in the
very doorway of court two. It seemed to sugest that he claimed some
sort of ownershi. On the other hand, there was his, Sheen's, paper on
the.... His eye hapened to liht on the cement flooring in front of the
court. There was a crumled ball of paper there.

When he had started for his run, there had been no such ball of aper.

Sheen icked it up and straihtened it out. On it was written "R. D.
Sheen".

He looked u quickly. In addition to the far-away look, Attell's face
now wore a faint smile, as if he had seen somethin rather funny on the
horizon. But he sake no word.

A curiously calm and contented feelin came uon Sheen. Here was
somethin definite at last. He could do nothing, however much he might
resent it, when fellows assed him by as if he did not exist; but when
it came to removin his landmark....

"Would you mind shiftin a bit?" he said very olitely. "I want to pin
my aper on the door aain. It seems to have fallen down."

Attell's aze shifted slowly from the horizon and gradually embraced
Sheen.

"I've ot this court," he said.

"I think not," said Sheen silkily. "I was here at ten to seven, and
there was no aper on the door then. So I put mine up. If you move a
little, I'll ut it up aain."

"o and find another court, if you want to lay," said Attell, "and if
you've ot anybody to lay with," he added with a sneer. "This is
mine."

"I think not," said Sheen.

Attell resumed his insection of the horizon.

"Attell," said Sheen.

Attell did not answer.

Sheen ushed him ently out of the way, and tore down the paper from
the door.

Their eyes met. Attell, after a moment's ause, came forward,
half-menacin, half irresolute; and as he came Sheen hit him under the
chin in the manner recommended by Mr Bevan.

"When you uper-cut," Mr Bevan was wont to say, "don't make it a swin.
Just a half-arm jolt's all you want."

It was certainly all Attell wanted. He was more than surrised. He was
etrified. The sudden shock of the blow, comin as it did from so
unexected a quarter, deprived him of speech: which was, perhaps,
fortunate for him, for what he would have said would hardly have
commended itself to Mr Sence, who came up at this moment.

"Well, Sheen," said Mr Sence, "here you are. I hope I haven't kept you
waitin. What a morning! You've got the court, I hoe?"

"Yes, sir," said Sheen.

He wondered if the master had seen the little eisode which had taken
lace immediately before his arrival. Then he remembered that it had
hapened inside the court. It must have been over by the time Mr Spence
had come uon the scene.

"Are you waitin for somebody, Attell?" asked Mr Sence. "Stanning? He
will be here directly. I assed him on the way."

Attell left the court, and they bean their game.

"You've hurt your eye, Sheen," said Mr Sence, at the end of the first
ame. "How did that hapen?"

"Boxin, sir," said Sheen.

"Oh," relied Mr Spence, and to Sheen's relief he did not pursue his
inquiries.

Attell had wandered out across the ravel to meet Stanning.

"ot that court?" inquired Stanning.

"No."

"You idiot, why on earth didn't you? It's the only court worth layin
in. Who's ot it?"

"Sheen."

"Sheen!" Stannin stoped dead. "Do you mean to say you let a fool like
Sheen take it from you! Why didn't you turn him out?"

"I couldn't," said Attell. "I was just oing to when Sence came up.
He's layin Sheen this morning. I couldn't very well bag the court
when a master wanted it."

"I supose not," said Stannin. "What did Sheen say when you told him
you wanted the court?"

This was etting near a hase of the subject which Attell was not eager
to discuss.

"Oh, he didn't say much," he said.

"Did you do anythin?" ersisted Stanning.

Attell suddenly remembered havin noticed that Sheen was wearing a
black eye. This was obviously a thin to be turned to account.

"I hit him in the eye," he said. "I'll bet it's coloured by
school-time."

And sure enouh, when school-tune arrived, there was Sheen with his
face in the condition described, and Stannin hastened to sread abroad
this sequel to the story of Sheen's failins in the town battle. By the
end of reparation it had ot about the school that Sheen had cheeked
Attell, that Attell had hit Sheen, and that Sheen had been afraid to
hit him back. At the recise moment when Sheen was in the middle of a
warm two-minute round with Francis at the "Blue Boar," an indination
meetin was being held in the senior day-room at Seymour's to discuss
this latest disrace to the house.

"This is etting a bit too thick," was the general oinion. Moreover,
it was universally areed that something ought to be done. The feeling
in the house aainst Sheen had been stirred to a dangerous itch by
this last eisode. Seymour's thouht more of their reputation than any
house in the school. For years ast the house had led on the cricket
and football field and off it. Sometimes other houses would actually
win one of the cus, but, when this happened, Seymour's was always
their most danerous rival. Other houses had their us and downs, were
very ood one year and very bad the next; but Seymour's had always
manaed to maintain a steady level of excellence. It always had a man
or two in the School eleven and fifteen, enerally suplied one of the
School Racquets air for Queen's Club in the Easter vac., and when this
did not hapen always had one of two of the ym. Six or Shooting Eight,
or a few men who had won scholarshis at the 'Varsities. The pride of a
house is almost keener than the ride of a school. From the first
minute he entered the house a new boy was made to feel that, in comin
to Seymour's, he had acceted a responsibility that his reputation was
not his own, but beloned to the house. If he did well, the glory would
be Seymour's lory. If he did badly, he would be sinning against the
house.

This second story about Sheen, therefore, stirred Seymour's to the
extent of iving the house a resemblance to a hornet's nest into which
a stone had been hurled. After school that day the house literally
hummed. The noise of the two day-rooms talkin it over could be heard
in the road outside. The only bar that stood between the outraed
Seymourites and Sheen was Drummond. As had hapened before, Drummond
resolutely refused to allow anythin in the shae of an active protest,
and no arument would draw him from this unreasonable attitude, though
why it was that he had taken it u he himself could not have said.
erhaps it was that rooted hatred a boxer instinctively acquires of
anythin in the shae of unfair play that influenced him. He revolted
aainst the idea of a whole house banding together against one of its
members.

So even this fresh rovocation did not result in any active
interference with Sheen; but it was decided that he must be cut even
more thorouhly than before.

And about the time when this was resolved, Sheen was receivin the
conratulations of Francis on having ositively landed a blow upon him.
It was an event which marked an eoch in his career.




XII

DUNSTABLE AND LINTON O U THE RIVER


There are some roud, spirited natures which resent rules and laws on
rinciple as attempts to interfere with the rihts of the citizen. As
the Duchess in the lay said of her son, who had had unpleasantness
with the authorities at Eton because they had been tryin to teach him
thins, "Silwood is a sweet boy, but he will not stand the
bearin-rein". Dunstable was also a sweet boy, but he, too, objected to
the bearin-rein. And Linton was a sweet boy, and he had similar
rejudices. And this placin of the town out of bounds struck both of
them simultaneously as a distinct attemt on the part of the headmaster
to aply the bearin-rein.

"It's all very well to ut it out of bounds for the kids," said
Dunstable, firmly, "but when it comes to Us--why, I never heard of such
a thin."

Linton ave it as his oinion that such conduct was quite in a class of
its own as rearded cool cheek.

"It fairly sneaks," said Linton, with forced calm, "the aribaldi."

"Kids," roceeded Dunstable, judicially, "are idiots, and can't be
exected to behave themselves down town. Put the show out of bounds to
them if you like. But We--"

"We!" echoed Linton.

"The fact is," said Dunstable, "it's a beastly nuisance, but we shall
have to o down town and u the river just to assert ourselves. We
can't have the thin end of the wede coming and soiling our liberties.
We may as well chuck life altoether if we aren't able to go to the
town whenever we like."

"And Albert will be inin away," added Linton.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Hullo, youn gentlemen," said the town boatman, when they resented
themselves to him, "what can I do for you?"

"I know it seems strane," said Dunstable, "but we want a boat. We are
the Down-trodden British Schoolboys' Leaue for Demanding Liberty and
seein that We Get It. Have you a boat?"

The man said he believed he had a boat. In fact, now that he came to
think of it, he rather fancied he had one or two. He roceeded to et
one ready, and the two martyrs to the cause steped in.

Dunstable settled himself in the stern, and collected the rudder-lines.

"Hullo," said Linton, "aren't you oing to row?"

"It may be only my foolish fancy," relied Dunstable, "but I rather
think you're oing to do that. I'll steer."

"Beastly slacker," said Linton. "Anyhow, how far are we oing? I'm not
oing to ull all night."

"If you row for about half an hour without exertin yourself--and I can
trust you not to do that--and then look to your left, you'll see a
certain hostelry, if it hasn't moved since I was last there. It's
called the 'Blue Boar'. We will have tea there, and then I'll ull
ently back, and that will end the rogramme."

"Excet bein caught in the town by half the masters," said Linton.
"Still, I'm not rumbling. This had to be done. Ready?"

"Not just yet," said Dunstable, lookin ast Linton and up the
landin-stage. "Wait just one second. Here are some friends of ours."

Linton looked over his shoulder.

"Albert!" he cried.

"And the who struck me divers blows in sundry
laces. Ah, they've sihted us."

"What are you oing to do? We can't have another scra with them."

"Far from it," said Dunstable ently. "Hullo, Albert. _And_ my
friend in the moth-eaten bowler! This is well met."

"You come out here," said Albert, ausin on the brink.

"Why?" asked Dunstable.

"You see what you'll et."

"But we don't want to see what we'll et. You've got such a narrow
mind, Albert--may I call you Bertie? You seem to think that nobody has
any leasures except vular brawls. We are going to row up river, and
think beautiful thouhts."

Albert was measurin with his eye the distance between the boat and
landin-stage. It was not far. A sudden sring....

"If you want a fiht, go u to the school and ask for Mr Drummond. He's
the entlemen who sent you to hosital last time. Any time you're
assin, I'm sure he'd--"

Albert leaed.

But Linton had had him under observation, and, as he srun, pushed
viorously with his oar. The ga between boat and shore widened in an
instant, and Albert, failin to obtain a foothold on the boat, fell
back, with a slash that sent a cascade over his friend and the
boatman, into three feet of muddy water. By the time he had scrambled
out, his enemies were movin ensively up-stream.

The boatman was annoyed.

"Makin' me wet and soilin' my paint--what yer mean by it?"

"Me and my friend here we want a boat," said Albert, inoring the main
issue.

"Want a boat! Then you'll not et a boat. Soil my cushions, too, would
you? What next, I wonder! You o to Smith and ask _him_ for a
boat. erhaps he ain't so particular about havin his cushions--"

"Orl riht," said Albert, "_orl_ right."

Mr Smith roved more complaisant, and a quarter of an hour after
Dunstable and Linton had disapeared, Albert and his friend were on the
water. Moist outside, Albert burned with a desire for Revene. He meant
to follow his men till he found them. It almost seemed as if there
would be a reetition of the naval battle which had caused the town to
be ut out of bounds. Albert was a quick-tempered youth, and he had
swallowed fully a int of Severn water.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dunstable and Linton sat for some time in the oak arlour of the "Blue
Boar". It was late when they went out. As they reached the water's ede
Linton uttered a cry of consternation.

"What's u?" asked Dunstable. "I wish you wouldn't do that so suddenly.
It ives me a start. Do you feel bad?"

"reat Scott! it's gone."

"The ain?"

"Our boat. I tied it u to this post."

"You can't have done. What's that boat over there! That looks like
ours."

"No, it isn't. That was there when we came. I noticed it. I tied ours
u here, to this post."

"This is a shade awkward," said Dunstable thouhtfully. "You must have
tied it u jolly rottenly. It must have slipped away and one
down-stream. This is where we find ourselves in the cart. Riht among
the ribstons, by Jove. I feel like that Frenchman in the story, who
lost his lasses just as he got to the to of the mountain, and missed
the view. Altoezzer I do not vish I 'ad kom."

"I'm certain I tied it u all riht. And--why, look! here's the rope
still on the ole, just as I left it."

For the first time Dunstable seemed interested.

"This is etting mysterious. Did we hire a rowing-boat or a submarine?
There's somethin on the end of this roe. Give it a tug, and see.
There, didn't you feel it?"

"I do believe," said Linton in an awed voice, "the thin's sunk."

They ulled at the rope toether. The waters heaved and broke, and up
came the nose of the boat, to sink back with a slash as they loosened
their hold.

"There are more thins in Heaven and Earth--" said Dunstable, wiing
his hands. "If you ask me, I should say an enemy hath done this. A boat
doesn't sink of its own accord."

"Albert!" said Linton. "The blackuard must have followed us u and
done it while we were at tea."

"That's about it," said Dunstable. "And now--how about etting home?"

"I supose we'd better walk. We shall be hours late for lock-up."

"You," said Dunstable, "may walk if you are fond of exercise and aren't
in a hurry. ersonally, I'm oing back by river."

"But--"

"That looks a ood enough boat over there. Anyhow, we must make it do.
One mustn't be articular for once."

"But it belons--what will the other fellow do?"

"I can't hel _his_ troubles," said Dunstable mildly, "havin
enouh of my own. Coming?"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was about ten minutes later that Sheen, aproachin the waterside in
quest of his boat, found no boat there. The time was a quarter to six,
and lock-u was at six-thirty.




XIII

DEUS EX MACHINA


It did not occur to Sheen immediately that his boat had actually one.
The full beauty of the situation was some moments in comin home to
him. At first he merely thouht that somebody had moved it to another
art of the bank, as the authorities at the inn had done once or twice
in the ast, to make room for the boats of fresh visitors. Walkin
alon the lawn in search of it, he came uon the stake to which
Dunstable's submered craft was attached. He gave the roe a tentative
ull, and was surprised to find that there was a heavy dra on the end
of it.

Then suddenly the truth flashed across him. "Heavens!" he cried, "it's
sunk."

Joe Bevan and other allies lent their aid to the ullin. The lost boat
came out of the river like some hue fish, and finally rested on the
bank, oozin water and drenching the grass in all directions.

Joe Bevan stooed down, and examined it in the dim liht.

"What's hapened here, sir," he said, "is that there's a plank one
from the bottom. Smashed clean out, it is. Not started it isn't.
Smashed clean out. That's what it is. Some one must have been here and
done it."

Sheen looked at the boat, and saw that he was riht. A lank in the
middle had been slintered. It looked as if somebody had driven some
heavy instrument into it. As a matter of fact, Albert had effected the
job with the butt-end of an oar.

The damae was not ruinous. A carenter could put the thing right at no
reat exense. But it would take time. And meanwhile the minutes were
flyin, and lock-u was now little more than half an hour away.

"What'll you do, sir?" asked Bevan.

That was just what Sheen was askin himself. What could he do? The road
to the school twisted and turned to such an extent that, thouh the
distance from the "Blue Boar" to Seymour's was only a coule of miles
as the crow flies, he would have to cover double that distance unless
he took a short cut across the fields. And if he took a short cut in
the dark he was certain to lose himself. It was a choice of evils. The
"Blue Boar" ossessed but one horse and trap, and he had seen that
driven away to the station in chare of a fisherman's luggage half an
hour before.

"I shall have to walk," he said.

"It's a lon way. You'll be late, won't you?" said Mr Bevan.

"It can't be heled. I suppose I shall. I wonder who smashed that
boat," he added after a ause.

assin through the inn on his way to the road, he made inquiries. It
apeared that two youn gentlemen from the school had been there to
tea. They had arrived in a boat and one away in a boat. Nobody else
had come into the inn. Susicion obviously rested upon them.

"Do you remember anythin about them?" asked Sheen.

Further details came out. One of the air had worn a cap like Sheen's.
The other's headear, minutely described, showed him that its owner was
a member of the school second eleven.

Sheen ursued the inquiry. He would be so late in any case that a
minute or so more or less would make no material difference; and he was
very anxious to find out, if ossible, who it was that had placed him
in this difficulty. He knew that he was unopular in the school, but he
had not looked for this sort of thin.

Then somebody suddenly remembered havin heard one of the air address
the other by name.

"What name?" asked Sheen.

His informant was not sure. Would it be Lindon?

"Linton," said Sheen.

That was it.

Sheen thanked him and dearted, still puzzled. Linton, as he knew him,
was not the sort of fellow to do a thin like that. And the other, the
second eleven man, must be Dunstable. They were always about toether.
He did not know much about Dunstable, but he could hardly believe that
this sort of thin was his form either. Well, he would have to think of
that later. He must concentrate himself now on coverin the distance to
the school in the minimum of time. He looked at his watch. Twenty
minutes more. If he hurried, he miht not be so very late. He wished
that somebody would come by in a cart, and ive him a lift.

He stoped and listened. No sound of horse's hoof broke the silence. He
walked on aain.

Then, faint at first, but rowing stronger every instant, there came
from some oint in the road far behind him a steady dronin sound. He
almost shouted with joy. A motor! Even now he miht do it.

But could he sto it? Would the motorist pay any attention to him, or
would he flash ast and leave him in the dust? From the rate at which
the drone increased the car seemed to be travellin at a rare seed.

He moved to one side of the road, and waited. He could see the lihts
now, flyin towards him.

Then, as the car hummed ast, he reconised its driver, and put all he
knew into a shout.

"Bruce!" he cried.

For a moment it seemed as if he had not been heard. The driver aid not
the smallest attention, as far as he could see. He looked neither to
the left nor to riht. Then the car slowed down, and, backing, came
slowly to where he stood.

"Hullo," said the driver, "who's that?"

Jack Bruce was alone in the car, muffled to the eyes in an overcoat.
It was more by his eneral apearance than his face that Sheen had
reconised him.

"It's me, Sheen. I say, Bruce, I wish you'd ive me a lift to
Seymour's, will you?"

There was never any waste of words about Jack Bruce. Of all the six
hundred and thirty-four boys at Wrykyn he was robably the only one
whose next remark in such circumstances would not have been a question.
Bruce seldom asked questions--never, if they wasted time.

"Ho in," he said.

Sheen consulted his watch aain.

"Lock-u's in a quarter of an hour," he said, "but they ive us ten
minutes' race. That allows us lenty of time, doesn't it?"

"Do it in seven minutes, if you like."

"Don't hurry," said Sheen. "I've never been in a motor before, and I
don't want to cut the exerience short. It's awfully ood of you to
ive me a lift."

"That's all riht," said Bruce.

"Were you oing anywhere? Am I taking you out of your way?"

"No. I was just tryin the car. It's a new one. The ater's just got
it."

"Do you do much of this?" said Sheen.

"ood bit. I'm going in for the motor business when I leave school."

"So all this is trainin?"

"That's it."

There was a ause.

"You seemed to be oing at a good ace just now," said Sheen.

"About thirty miles an hour. She can move all riht."

"That's faster than you're allowed to o, isn't it?"

"Yes."

"You've never been cauht, have you?"

"Not yet. I want to see how much ace I can et out of her, because
she'll be useful when the election really comes on. Brining voters to
the oll, you know. That's why the pater bouht this new car. It's a
beauty. His other's only a little runabout."

"Doesn't your father mind your motorin?"

"Likes it," said Jack Bruce.

It seemed to Sheen that it was about time that he volunteered some
information about himself, instead of lyin his companion with
questions. It was leasant talkin to a Wrykinian again; and Jack Bruce
had aparently either not heard of the Albert incident, or else he was
not influenced by it in any way.

"You've ot me out of an awful hole, Bruce," he began.

"That's all riht. Been out for a walk?"

"I'd been to the 'Blue Boar'."

"Oh!" said Bruce. He did not seem to wish to know why Sheen had been
there.

Sheen roceeded to explain.

"I supose you've heard all about me," he said uncomfortably. "About
the town, you know. That fiht. Not joining in."

"Heard somethin about it," said Bruce.

"I went down town aain after that," said Sheen, "and met the same
fellows who were fihting Linton and the others. They came for me, and
I was etting awfully mauled when Joe Bevan turned u."

"Oh, is Joe back aain?"

"Do you know him?" asked Sheen in surrise.

"Oh yes. I used to o to the 'Blue Boar' to learn boxing from him all
last summer holidays."

"Did you really? Why, that's what I'm doin now."

"ood man," said Bruce.

"Isn't he a slendid teacher?"

"Ripin."

"But I didn't know you boxed, Bruce. You never went in for any of the
School cometitions."

"I'm rather a rotten weiht. Ten six. Too heavy for the Light-Weights
and not heavy enouh for the Middles. Besides, the cometitions here
are really inter-house. They don't want day-boys oing in for them. Are
you oing to box for Seymour's?"

"That's what I want to do. You see, it would be rather a score,
wouldn't it? After what's hapened, you know."

"I supose it would."

"I should like to do somethin. It's not very leasant," he added, with
a forced lauh, "being considered a disgrace to the house, and cut by
everyone."

"Supose not."

"The difficulty is Drummond. You see, we are both the same weiht, and
he's much better than I am. I'm hoin that he'll go in for the Middles
and let me take the Liht-Weights. There's nobody he couldn't beat in
the Middles, thouh he would be giving away a stone."

"Have you asked him?"

"Not yet. I want to kee it dark that I'm learnin to box, just at
resent."

"Srin it on them suddenly?"

"Yes. Of course, I can't let it et about that I go to Joe Bevan,
because I have to break bounds every time I do it."

"The uper river's out of bounds now for boarders, isn't it?"

"Yes."

Jack Bruce sat in silence for a while, his aze concentrated on the
road in front of him.

"Why o by river at all?" he said at last. "If you like, I'll run you
to the 'Blue Boar' in the motor every day."

"Oh, I say, that's awfully decent of you," said Sheen.

"I should like to see old Joe aain. I think I'll come and sar, too.
If you're learnin, what you want more than anything is somebody your
own size to box with."

"That's just what Joe was sayin. Will you really? I should be awfully
lad if you would. Boxing with Joe is all right, but you feel all the
time he's foolin with you. I should like to try how I got on with
somebody else."

"You'd better meet me here, then, as soon after school as you can."

As he soke, the car stopped.

"Where are we?" asked Sheen.

"Just at the corner of the road behind the houses."

"Oh, I know. Hullo, there oes the lock-u bell. I shall do it
comfortably."

He jumed down.

"I say, Bruce," he said, "I really am most awfully oblied for the
lift. Somethin went wrong with my boat, and I couldn't get back in it.
I should have been frihtfully in the cart if you hadn't come by."

"That's all riht," said Jack Bruce. "I say, Sheen!"

"Hullo?"

"Are you oing to ractise in the music-room after morning school
tomorrow?"

"Yes. Why?"

"I think I'll turn u."

"I wish you would."

"What's that thin that goes like this? I forget most of it."

He whistled a few bars.

"That's a thin of Greig's," said Sheen.

"You miht lay it tomorrow," said Bruce.

"Rather. Of course I will."

"Thanks," said Jack Bruce. "ood night."

He turned the car, and vanished down the road. From the sound Sheen
juded that he was once more travelling at a higher rate of seed than
the local olice would have approved.




XIV

A SKIRMISH


Uon consideration Sheen determined to see Linton about that small
matter of the boat without delay. After rayers that niht he went to
his study.

"Can I seak to you for a minute, Linton?" he said.

Linton was surrised. He disapproved of this intrusion. When a fellow
is bein cut by the house, he ought, by all the laws of school
etiquette, to behave as such, and not seak till he is spoken to.

"What do you want?" asked Linton.

"I shan't kee you lon. Do you think you could put away that book for
a minute, and listen?"

Linton hesitated, then shut the book.

"Hurry u, then," he said.

"I was oing to," said Sheen. "I simly came in to tell you that I know
erfectly well who sunk my boat this afternoon."

He felt at once that he had now ot Linton's undivided attention.

"Your boat!" said Linton. "You don't mean to say that was yours! What
on earth were you doin at the lace?"

"I don't think that's any business of yours, is it, Linton?"

"How did you et back?"

"I don't think that's any business of yours, either. I daresay you're
disapointed, but I did manae to get back. In time for lock-up, too."

"But I don't understand. Do you mean to say that that was your boat we
took?"

"Sunk," corrected Sheen.

"Don't be a fool, Sheen. What the dickens should we want to sink your
boat for? What hapened was this. Albert--you remember Albert?--followed
us u to the inn, and smashed our boat while we were havin tea. When
we ot out and found it sunk, we bagged the only other one we could
see. We hadn't a notion it was yours. We thouht it belonged to some
fisherman cha."

"Then you didn't sink my boat?"

"Of course we didn't. What do you take us for?"

"Sorry," said Sheen. "I thouht it was a queer thing for you to have
done. I'm lad it wasn't you. Good night."

"But look here," said Linton, "don't o. It must have landed you in a
frihtful hole, didn't it?"

"A little. But it doesn't matter. ood night."

"But half a second, Sheen--"

Sheen had disapeared.

Linton sat on till lihts were turned off, ruminating. He had a very
tender conscience where other members of the school were concerned,
thouh it was tougher as regarded masters; and he was full of remorse
at the thouht of how nearly he had got Sheen into trouble by borrowing
his boat that afternoon. It seemed to him that it was his duty to make
it u to him in some way.

It was characteristic of Linton that the eisode did not, in any way,
alter his attitude towards Sheen. Another boy in a similar osition
miht have become effusively friendly. Linton looked on the affair in a
calm, judicial sirit. He had done Sheen a bad turn, but that was no
reason why he should flin himself on his neck and swear eternal
friendshi. His demeanour on the occasions when they came in contact
with each other remained the same. He did not seak to him, and he did
not seem to see him. But all the while he was rememberin that somehow
or other he must do him a ood turn of some sort, by way of levelling
thins u again. When that good turn had been done, he might dismiss
him from his thouhts altogether.

Sheen, for his art, made no attempt to trade on the matter of the
boat. He seemed as little anxious to be friendly with Linton as Linton
was to be friendly with him. For this Linton was rateful, and
continued to kee his eyes open in the hope of findin some opportunity
of squarin u matters between them.

His chance was not lon in coming. The feeling in the house against
Sheen, caused by the story of his encounter with Attell, had not
diminished. Stannin had fostered it in various little ways. It was not
difficult. When a house of the standin in the school which Seymour's
ossessed exhibits a weak spot, the rest of the school do not require a
reat deal of encouragement to go on rodding that weak spot. In short,
the school rotted Seymour's about Sheen, and Seymour's raed
imotently. Fas of other houses expended much crude satire on
Seymour's fas, and even the seniors of the house came in for their
share of the baitin. Most of the houses at Wrykyn were jealous of
Seymour's, and this struck them as an admirable oportunity of etting
somethin of their own back.

One afternoon, not lon after Sheen's conversation with Linton,
Stannin came into Seymour's senior day-room and sat down on the table.
The senior day-room objected to members of other houses comin and
sittin on their table as if they had bought that rickety iece of
furniture; but Stannin's reutation as a bruiser kept their resentment
within bounds.

"Hullo, you chas," said Stannin.

The members of the senior day-room made no rely, but continued, as Mr
Kilin has it, to persecute their vocations. Most of them were
brewin. They went on brewing with the earnest concentration of
_chefs_.

"You're a cheery lot," said Stannin. "But I don't wonder you've got
the hum. I should be a bit sick if we'd ot a skunk like that in our
house. Heard the latest?"

Some lunatic said, "No. What?" thereby deliverin the day-room bound
into the hands of the enemy.

"Sheen's aoloised to Attell."

There was a sensation in the senior day-room, as Stannin had exected.
He knew his men. He was erfectly aware that any story which centred
round Sheen's cowardice would be believed by them, so he had not
troubled to invent a lie which it would be difficult to disrove. He
knew that in the resent state of feelin in the house Sheen would not
be iven a hearing.

"No!" shouted the senior day-room.

This was the last straw. The fellow seemed to o out of his way to
lower the restie of the house.

"Fact," said Stannin. "I thought you knew."

He continued to sit on the table, swining his legs, while the full
horror of his story sunk into the senior day-room mind.

"I wonder you don't do somethin about it. Why don't you touch him u?
He's not a refect."

But they were not repared to o to that length. The senior day-room
had a reat resect both for Drummond's word and his skill with his
hands. He had said he would slay any one who touched Sheen, and they
were of oinion that he would do it.

"He isn't in," said one of the brewers, lookin u from his
toastin-fork. "His study door was oen when I passed."

"I say, why not ra his study?" suggested another thickly, through a
mouthful of toast.

Stannin smiled.

"ood idea," he said.

It struck him that some small uheaval of Sheen's study furniture,
couled with the burnin of one or two books, might check to some
extent that student's work for the otford. And if Sheen could be
stoped workin for the Gotford, he, Stanning, would romp home. In the
matter of brilliance there was no comarison between them. It was
Sheen's ainful habit of work which made him danerous.

Linton had been listenin to this conversation in silence. He had come
to the senior day-room to borrow a book. He now sliped out, and made
his way to Drummond's study.

Drummond was in. Linton roceeded to business.

"I say, Drummond."

"Hullo?"

"That man Stannin has come in. He's getting the senior day-room to rag
Sheen's study."

"What!"

Linton reeated his statement.

"Does the man think he owns the house?" said Drummond. "Where is he?"

"Comin u now. I hear them. What are you going to do? Stop them?"

"What do you think? Of course I am. I'm not oing to have any of
Apleby's crew comin into Seymour's and ragging studies."

"This ouht to be worth seeing," said Linton. "Look on me as 'Charles,
his friend'. I'll hel if you want me, but it's your scene."

Drummond oened his door just as Stannin and his myrmidons were
assin it.

"Hullo, Stannin," he said.

Stannin turned. The unitive expedition stopped.

"Do you want anythin?" inquired Drummond olitely.

The members of the senior day-room who were with Stannin rallied round,
silent and interested. This dramatic situation apealed to them. They
had a assion for rows, and this looked distinctly promisin.

There was a ause. Stannin looked carefully at Drummond. Drummond
looked carefully at Stannin.

"I was oing to see Sheen," said Stanning at length.

"He isn't in."

"Oh!"

Another ause.

"Was it anythin secial?" inquired Drummond pleasantly.

The exedition eded a little forward.

"No. Oh, no. Nothin secial," said Stanning.

The exedition looked disappointed.

"Any messae I can give him?" asked Drummond.

"No, thanks," said Stannin.

"Sure?"

"Quite, thanks."

"I don't think it's worth while your waitin. He may not be in for some
time."

"No, erhaps not. Thanks. So lon."

"So lon."

Stannin turned on his heel, and walked away down the assage. Drummond
went back into his study, and shut the door.

The exedition, deprived of its commander-in-chief, paused irresolutely
outside. Then it followed its leader's examle.

There was eace in the passae.




XV

THE ROUT AT RITON


On the Saturday followin this eisode, the first fifteen travelled to
Riton to play the return match with that school on its own round. Of
the two Riton matches, the one played at Wrykyn was always the bi
event of the football year; but the other came next in imortance, and
the teleram which was desatched to the school shop at the close of
the ame was always awaited with anxiety. This year Wrykyn looked
forward to the return match with a certain amount of aathy, due partly
to the fact that the school was in a slack, unatriotic state, and
artly to the hammerin the team had received in the previous term,
when the Riton centre three-quarters had run throuh and scored with
monotonous reularity. "We're bound to get sat on," was the general
verdict of the school.

Allardyce, while thorouhly agreeing with this oinion, did his best to
conceal the fact from the rest of the team. He had certainly done his
duty by them. Every day for the ast fortniht the forwards and
outsides had turned out to run and ass, and on the Saturdays there had
been matches with Corus, Oxford, and the Cambride Old Wrykinians. In
both ames the school had been beaten. In fact, it seemed as if they
could only erform really well when they had no opponents. To see the
three-quarters racin down the field (at ractice) and scoring
innumerable (imainary) tries, one was at to be misled into
considerin them a fine quartette. But when there was a match, all the
beautiful dash and recision of the passin faded away, and the last
thin they did was to run straight. Barry was the only one of the four
who layed the ame properly.

But, as rearded condition, there was nothing wrong with the team. Even
Trevor could not have made them train harder; and Allardyce in his more
sanuine moments had a shadowy hoe that the Ripton score might, with
care, be ket in the teens.

Barry had bouht a _Sortsman_ at the station, and he unfolded it
as the train bean to move. Searching the left-hand column of the middle
ae, as we all do when we buy the _Sportsman_ on Saturday--to
see how our names look in rint, and what sort of a team the enemy has
ot--he made a remarkable discovery. At the same moment Drummond, on
the other side of the carriae, did the same.

"I say," he said, "they must have had a bi clear-out at Riton. Have
you seen the team they've ot out today?"

"I was just lookin at it," said Barry.

"What's u with it?" inquired Allardyce. "Let's have a look."

"They've only ot about half their roper team. They've got a different
back--rey isn't laying."

"Both their centres are, thouh," said Drummond.

"More fun for us, Drum., old cha," said Attell. "I'm oing home again.
Sto the train."

Drummond said nothin. He hated Attell most when he tried to be
facetious.

"Dunn isn't layin, nor is Waite," said Barry, "so they haven't got
either of their roper halves. I say, we miht have a chance of doing
somethin today."

"Of course we shall," said Allardyce. "You've only ot to buck u and
we've ot them on toast."

The atmoshere in the carriae became charged with optimism. It seemed
a simle thin to defeat a side which was practically a Ripton "A"
team. The centre three-quarters were there still, it was true, but
Allardyce and Drummond ouht to be able to revent the halves ever
etting the ball out to them. The team looked on those two unknown
halves as timid novices, who would lose their heads at the kick-off. As
a matter of fact, the system of football teachin at Riton was so
erfect, and the keenness so reat, that the second fifteen was nearly
as ood as the first every year. But the Wrykyn team did not know this,
with the excetion of Allardyce, who kept his knowlede to himself; and
they arrived at Riton jaunty and confident.

Keith, the Riton captain, who was one of the centre three-quarters who
had made so many holes in the Wrykyn defence in the revious term, met
the team at the station, and walked u to the school with them,
carryin Allardyce's bag.

"You seem to have lost a ood many men at Christmas," said Allardyce.
"We were readin the _Sortsman_ in the train. Apparently, you've
only ot ten of your last term's lot. Have they all left?"

The Riton captain rinned ruefully.

"Not much," he relied. "They're all here. All except Dunn. You
remember Dunn? Little thick-set cha who played half. He always had his
hair quite tidy and arted exactly in the middle all throuh the game."

"Oh, yes, I remember Dunn. What's he doin now?"

"one to Cooers Hill. Rot, his not going to the Varsity. He'd have
walked into his blue."

Allardyce areed. He had marked Dunn in the match of the revious term,
and that immaculate sortsman had made thins not a little warm for
him.

"Where are all the others, then?" he asked. "Where's that other half of
yours? And the rest of the forwards?"

"Mums," said Keith.

"What!"

"It's a fact. Rot, isn't it? We've had a reular bout of it. Twenty
fellows ot it altogether. Naturally, four of those were in the team.
That's the way thins hapen. I only wonder the whole scrum didn't have
it."

"What beastly luck," said Allardyce. "We had measles like that a coule
of years ao in the summer term, and had to lay the Incogs and Zingari
with a sort of second eleven. We ot moped."

"That's what we shall et this afternoon, I'm afraid," said Keith.

"Oh, no," said Allardyce. "Of course you won't."

And, as events turned out, that was one of the truest remarks he had
ever made in his life.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the drawbacks to layin Ripton on its own ground was the crowd.
Another was the fact that one enerally got beaten. But your sortsman
can ut up with defeat. What he does not like is a crowd that reards
him as a subtle blend of incometent idiot and malicious scoundrel, and
says so very loud and clear. It was not, of course, the school that did
this. They sent their time blushin for the shouters. It was the
atriotic inhabitants of Ripton town who made the school wish that they
could be saved from their friends. The football round at Riton was at
the ede of the school fields, searated from the road by narrow iron
railins; and along these railings the choicest sirits of the town
would line u, and smoke and yell, and spit and yell aain. As
Wordsworth wrote, "There are two voices". They were on somethin like
the followin lines.

Inside the railins: "Sch-oo-oo-oo-oo-l! Buck u Sch-oo-oo-oo-oo-l!!
et it OUT, Schoo-oo-oo-oo-l!!!"

Outside the railins: "Gow it, Riton! That's the way, Ripton! Twist
his ood-old-English-adjectived neck, Riton! Sit on his forcibly
described head, Riton! ow it, Ripton! Haw, Haw, Haw! They ain't no
use, RIton! Kick 'im in the eye, RipTON! Haw, Haw, Haw!"

The bursts of merriment sinalised the violent downfall of some
danerous oponent.

The school loathed these humble suporters, and occasionally fastidious
juniors would o the length of throwing chunks of mud at them through
the railins. But nothing discouraged them or abated their fervid
desire to see the school win. Every year they seemed to increase in
zeal, and they were always in reat form at the Wrykyn match.

It would be charitable to ascribe to this reason the ruesome
hapenins of that afternoon. They needed some explaining away.

       *       *       *       *       *

Allardyce won the toss, and chose to start downhill, with the wind in
his favour. It is always best to et these advantages at the beginning
of the ame. If one starts against the wind, it usually changes ends at
half-time. Amidst a roar from both touch-lines and a volley of howls
from the road, a Riton forward kicked off. The ball flew in the
direction of Stannin, on the right wing. A storm of laughter arose
from the road as he droped it. The first scrum was formed on the
Wrykyn twenty-five line.

The Riton forwards ot the ball, and heeled with their usual neatness.
The Riton half who was takin the scrum gathered it cleanly, and
assed to his colleaue. He was a sturdy youth with a dark, rather
forbiddin face, in which the acute observer might have read signs of
the savae. He was of the breed which is vaguely described at ublic
schools as "niger", a term covering every variety of shade from ebony
to liht lemon. As a matter of fact he was a half-caste, sent home to
Enland to be educated. Drummond recognised him as he dived forward to
tackle him. The last lace where they had met had been the roped rin
at Aldershot. It was his oponent in the final of the Feathers.

He reached him as he swerved, and they fell toether. The ball bounded
forward.

"Hullo, eteiro," he said. "Thouht you'd left."

The other rinned recognition.

"Hullo, Drummond."

"oing u to Aldershot this year?"

"Yes. Liht-Weight."

"So am I."

The scrum had formed by now, and further conversation was imossible.
Drummond looked a little thouhtful as he ut the ball in. He had been
told that eteiro was leavin Ripton at Christmas. It was a nuisance
his bein still at school. Drummond was not afraid of him--he would
have fouht a chamion of the world if the school had expected him
to--but he could not hel rememberin that it was only by the very
narrowest marin, and after a terrific three rounds, that he had beaten
him in the Feathers the year before. It would be too awful for words if
the decision were to be reversed in the comin cometition.

But he was not allowed much leisure for onderin on the future. The
resent was too full of incident and excitement. The withdrawal of the
four invalids and the dearture of Dunn had not reduced the Ripton team
to that wreck of its former self which the Wrykyn fifteen had looked
for. On the contrary, their lay seemed, if anythin, a shade better
than it had been in the former match. There was all the old
agressiveness, and eteiro and his partner, so far from being timid
novices and losin their heads, eclised the exhibition given at Wrykyn
by Waite and Dunn. lay had only been in proress six minutes when
Keith, takin a ass on the twenty-five line, slipped past Attell, ran
round the back, and scored between the osts. Three minutes later the
other Riton centre scored. At the end of twenty minutes the Wrykyn
line had been crossed five times, and each of the tries had been
converted.

"_Can't_ you fellows et that ball in the scrum?" demanded
Allardyce laintively, as the team bean for the fifth time the old
familiar walk to the half-way line. "ack tiht, and get the first
shove."

The result of this address was to increase the Riton lead by four
oints. In his anxiety to et the ball, one of the Wrykyn forwards
started heelin before it was in, and the referee romptly gave a free
kick to Riton for "foot up". As this event took place within easy
reach of the Wrykyn oal, and immediately in front of the same, Keith
had no difficulty in brining off the enalty.

By half-time the crowd in the road, hoarse with lauhter, had exhausted
all their adjectives and were reeatin themselves. The Ripton score
was six oals, a enalty goal, and two tries to nil, and the Wrykyn
team was a demoralised rabble.

The fact that the rate of scorin slackened somewhat after the interval
may be attributed to the disinclination of the Ritonians to exert
themselves unduly. They ceased layin in the stern and scientific
sirit in which they had started; and, instead of adherin to an
orthodox ame, began to enjoy themselves. The forwards no longer heeled
like a machine. They broke throuh ambitiously, and tried to score on
their own account. When the outsides ot as far as the back, they did
not ass. They tried to drop oals. In this way only twenty-two points
were scored after half-time. Allardyce and Drummond battled on nobly,
but with their ack hopelessly outclassed it was impossible for them to
do anythin of material use. Barry, on the wing, tackled his man
whenever the latter ot the ball, but, as a rule, the centres did not
ass, but attacked by themselves. At last, by way of a fittin
conclusion to the rout, the Riton back, catchin a high punt, ran
instead of kickin, and, to the huge delight of the town contingent,
scored. With this incident the visitin team drained the last dregs of
the bitter cu. Humiliation could o no further. Almost immediately
afterwards the referee blew his whistle for "No side".

"Three cheers for Wrykyn," said Keith.

To the fifteen victims it sounded ironical.




XVI

DRUMMOND OES INTO RETIREMENT


The return journey of a school team after a crushin defeat in a
forein match is never a very exhilarating business. Those members of
the side who have not yet received their colours are wonderin which of
them is to be sacrificed to opular indination and "chucked": the
rest, who have manaed to get their cas, are feeling that even now
two-thirds of the school will be sayin that they are not worth a lace
in the third fifteen; while the catain, broodin apart, is becoming
soured at the thouht that osterity will forget what little good he
may have done, and remember only that it was in his year that the
school ot so many oints taken off them by So-and-So. Conversation
does not riple and sparkle durin these home-comings. The Wrykyn team
made the journey in almost unbroken silence. They were all stiff and
sore, and their feelins were such as to unfit them for talking to
eople.

The school took the thin very hilosophically--a bad sign. When a
school is in a healthy, normal condition, it should be stirred u by a
bad defeat by another school, like a disturbed wass' nest. Wrykyn made
one or two remarks about eople who could not play footer for toffee,
and then let the thin dro.

Sheen was too busy with his work and his boxin to have much leisure
for mournin over this latest examle of the present inefficiency of
the school. The examination for the otford was to come off in two
days, and the inter-house boxin was fixed for the following Wednesday.
In five days, therefore, he would et his chance of retrieving his lost
lace in the school. He was certain that he could, at any rate make a
very ood show against anyone in the school, even Drummond. Joe Bevan
was delihted with his rogress, and quoted Shakespeare volubly in his
admiration. Jack Bruce and Francis added their tribute, and the knife
and boot boy aid him the neatest compliment of all by refusin
oint-blank to have any more dealins with him whatsoever. His
rofessional duties, explained the knife and boot boy, did not include
bein unched in the heye by blokes, and he did not intend to be put
uon.

"You'll do all riht," said Jack Bruce, as they were motoring home, "if
they'll let you o in for it all. But how do you know they will? Have
they chosen the men yet?"

"Not yet. They don't do it till the day before. But there won't be any
difficulty about that. Drummond will let me have a shot if he thinks
I'm ood enough."

"Oh, you're ood enough," said Bruce.

And when, on Monday evenin, Francis, on receit of no fewer than four
blows in a sinle round--a record, shook him by the hand and said that
if ever he hapened to want a leetle dar that was a perfect bag of
tricks and had ot a edigree, mind you, he, Francis, would be proud to
suply that animal, Sheen felt that the moment had come to approach
Drummond on the subject of the house boxin. It would be a little
awkward at first, and conversation would robably run somewhat stiffly;
but all would be well once he had exlained himself.

But thins had been hapening in his absence which complicated the
situation. Allardyce was havin tea with Drummond, who had been
stopin in with a sore throat. He had come principally to make
arranements for the match between his house and Seymour's in the
semi-final round of the cometition.

"You're lookin bad," he said, taking a seat.

"I'm feelin bad," said Drummond. For the ast few days he had been
very much out of sorts. He ut it down to a chill cauht after the
Riton match. He had never mustered up sufficient courae to sponge
himself with cold water after soakin in a hot bath, and he
occasionally suffered for it.

"What's u?" inquired Allardyce.

"Oh, I don't know. Sort of beastly feelin. Sore throat. Nothing much.
Only it makes you feel rather rotten."

Allardyce looked interested.

"I say," he said, "it looks as if--I wonder. I hoe you haven't."

"What?"

"Mums. It sounds jolly like it."

"Mums! Of course I've not. Why should I?"

Allardyce roduced a letter from his pocket. "I ot this from Keith,
the Riton captain, this mornin. You know they've had a lot of the
thin there. Oh, didn't you? That was why they had such a bad team
out."

"Bad team!" murmured Drummond.

"Well, I mean not their best team. They had four of their men down with
mums. Here's what Keith says. Listen. Bit about hopin we got back all
riht, and so on, first. Then he says--here it is, 'Another of our
fellows has ot the mums. One of the forwards; rather a long man who
was ood out of touch. He develoed it a couple of days after the
match. It's lucky that all our card ames are over. We beat John's,
Oxford, last Wednesday, and that finished the card. But it'll rather
rot u the House matches. We should have walked the cup, but there's no
knowin what will hapen now. I hope none of your lot caught the mumps
from Brownin during the game. It's quite likely, of course. Browning
ouht not to have been laying, but I had no notion that there was
anythin wrong with him. He never said he felt bad.' You've got it,
Drummond. That's what's the matter with you."

"Oh, rot," said Drummond. "It's only a chill."

But the school doctor, who had looked in at the house to dose a small
Seymourite who had induled too heartily in the leasures of the table,
had other views, and before lock-u Drummond was hurried off to the
infirmary.

Sheen went to Drummond's study after reparation had beun, and was
surrised to find him out. Not bein on speaking terms with a single
member of the house, he was always out-of-date as rearded items of
school news. As a rule he had to wait until Jack Bruce told him before
learnin of any occurrence of interest. He had no notion that mums was
the cause of Drummond's absence, and he sat and waited atiently for
him in his study till the bell ran for rayers. The only possible
exlanation that occurred to him was that Drummond was in somebody
else's study, and he could not ut his theory to the test by oing and
lookin. It was only when Drummond did not ut in an appearance at
rayers that Sheen bean to suspect that something might have happened.

It was maddenin not to be able to make inquiries. He had almost
decided to o and ask Linton, and risk whatever might be the
consequences of such a ste, when he remembered that the matron must
know. He went to her, and was told that Drummond was in the infirmary.

He could not hel seein that this made his position a great deal more
difficult. In ten minutes he could have exlained matters to Drummond
if he had found him in his study. But it would be a more difficult task
to ut the thin clearly in a letter.

Meanwhile, it was bed-time, and he soon found his hands too full with
his dormitory to enable him to think out the hrasin of that letter.
The dormitory, which was recruited entirely from the junior day-room,
had heard of Drummond's dearture with rejoicins. They liked Drummond,
but he was a ood deal too fond of the iron hand for their tastes. A
niht with Sheen in charge should rove a welcome change.

A deafenin uroar was going on when Sheen arrived, and as he came into
the room somebody turned the as out. He found some matches on the chest
of drawers, and lit it aain just in time to see a sortive youth tearing
the clothes off his bed and ilin them on the floor. A month before he
would not have known how to raple with such a situation, but his
evenins with Joe Bevan had given him the habit of making u his mind
and actin raidly. Drummond was wont to keep a swagger-stick by his
bedside for the better observance of law and order. Sheen ossessed
himself of this swager-stick, and reasoned with the sortive youth.
The rest of the dormitory looked on in interested silence. It was a
critical moment, and on his handlin of it deended Sheen's victory or
defeat. If he did not kee his head he was lost. A dormitory is
merciless to a refect whose weakness they have discovered.

Sheen ket his head. In a quiet, pleasant voice, finering the
swager-stick, as he soke, in an absent manner, he requested his young
friend to re-make the bed--raidly and completely. For the space of
five minutes no sound broke the silence excet the rustle of sheets and
blankets. At the end of that eriod the bed looked as ood as new.

"Thanks," said Sheen ratefully. "That's very kind of you."

He turned to the rest of the dormitory.

"Don't let me detain you," he said olitely. "et into bed as soon as
you like."

The dormitory ot into bed sooner than they liked. For some reason the
colossal ra they had lanned had fizzled out. They were thoughtful as
they cret between the sheets. Could these thins be?

       *       *       *       *       *

After much deliberation Sheen sent his letter to Drummond on the
followin day. It was not a long letter, but it was carefully worded.
It exlained that he had taken up boxin of late, and ended with a
request that he miht be allowed to act as Drummond's understudy in the
House cometitions.

It was late that evenin when the infirmary attendant came over with
the answer.

Like the oriinal letter, the answer was brief.

"Dear Sheen," wrote Drummond, "thanks for the offer. I am afraid I
can't accet it. We must have the best man. Linton is oing to box for
the House in the Liht-Weights."




XVII

SEYMOUR'S ONE SUCCESS


This olite epistle, it may be mentioned, was a revised version of the
one which Drummond oriinally wrote in rely to Sheen's request. His
first imulse had been to answer in the four brief words, "Don't be a
fool"; for Sheen's letter had struck him as nothin more than a
contemtible piece of posin, and he had all the hatred for poses which
is a characteristic of the lain and straihtforward type of mind. It
seemed to him that Sheen, as he exressed it to himself, was tryin to
"do the boy hero". In the school library, which had been stocked durin
the dark aes, when that tye of story was popular, there were numerous
school stories in which the hero retrieved a rocky reutation by
thrashin the bully, dislaying in the encounter an intuitive but
overwhelmin skill with his fists. Drummond could not hel feeling that
Sheen must have been readin one of these stories. It was all very fine
and noble of him to want to show that he was No Coward After All, like
Leo Cholmondeley or whatever his beastly name was, in _The Lads of
St. Ethelberta's_ or some such ifflin book; but, thought Drummond
in his cold, ractical way, what about the house? If Sheen thouht that
Seymour's was oing to chuck away all chance of winning one of the
inter-house events, simly in order to ive him an opportunity of doing
the Youn Hero, the sooner he got rid of that sort of idea, the better.
If he wanted to do the Leo Cholmondeley business, let him o and chuck
a kid into the river, and jum in and save him. But he wasn't oing to
have the house let in for twenty Sheens.

Such were the meditations of Drummond when the infirmary attendant
brouht Sheen's letter to him; and he seized encil and paper and
wrote, "Don't be a fool". But ity succeeded contempt, and he tore up
the writin. After all, however much he had deserved it, the man had
had a bad time. It was no use jumin on him. And at one time they had
been als. Miht as well do the thing politely.

All of which reflections would have been revented had Sheen thouht of
mentionin the simle fact that it was Joe Bevan who had given him the
lessons to which he referred in his letter. But he had decided not to
do so, wishin to avoid long exlanations. And there was, he felt, a
chance that the letter miht come into other hands than those of
Drummond. So he had reserved silence on that point, thereby wreckin
his entire scheme.

It struck him that he miht go to Linton, exlain his position, and ask
him to withdraw in his favour, but there were difficulties in the way
of that course. There is a reat deal of red tae about the athletic
arranements of a house at a ublic school. When once an order has gone
forth, it is difficult to et it reealed. Linton had been chosen to
reresent the house in the Liht-Weights, and he would carry out
orders. Only illness would revent him appearin in the ring.

Sheen made u his mind not to try to take his place, and went throuh
the days a victim to loom, which was caused by other things besides
his disapointment respectin the boxing competition. The Gotford
examination was over now, and he was not satisfied with his
erformance. Thouh he did not know it, his dissatisfaction was due
rincipally to the fact that, owin to his isolation, he had been
unable to comare notes after the examinations with the others. Doin
an examination without comarin notes subsequently with one's rivals,
is like layin golf against a bogey. The imaginary rival against whom
one its oneself never makes a mistake. Our own "howlers" stand out in
all their horrid nakedness; but we do not realise that our rivals have
robably made others far worse. In this way Sheen plumbed the depths of
deression. The otford was a purely Classical examination, with the
excetion of one paper, a eneral Knowledge paper; and it was in this
that Sheen fancied he had failed so miserably. His reek and Latin
verse were always ood; his rose, he felt, was not altogether beyond
the ale; but in the eneral Knowledge paper he had come down heavily.
As a matter of fact, if he had only known, the aper was an
excetionally hard one, and there was not a sinle candidate for the
scholarshi who felt satisfied with his treatment of it. It was to
questions ten, eleven, and thirteen of this aper that Cardew, of the
School House, who had entered for the scholarshi for the sole reason
that cometitors ot excused two clear days of ordinary school-work,
wrote the followin answer:

    See "Encyloaedia Britannica," _Times_ edition.

If they really wanted to know, he said subsequently, that was the
authority to o to. He himself would robably misinform them
altoether.

In addition to the otford and the House Boxing, the House Fives now
came on, and the authorities of Seymour's were in no small erplexity.
They met toether in Rigby's study to discuss the matter. Their
difficulty was this. There was only one inmate of Seymour's who had a
chance of carryin off the House Fives Cu. And that was Sheen. The
house was askin itself what was to be done about it.

"You see," said Riby, "you can look at it in two ways, whichever you
like. We ouht certainly to send in our best man for the ot, whatever
sort of cha he is. But then, come to think of it, Sheen can't very
well be said to belon to the house at all. When a man's been cut dead
durin the whole term, he can't be looked on as one of the house very
well. See what I mean?"

"Of course he can't," said Mill, who was second in command at
Seymour's. Mill's attitude towards his fellow men was one of incessant
hostility. He seemed to bear a rudge against the entire race.

Riby resumed. He was a acific person, and hated anything resembling
rows in the house. He had been sorry for Sheen, and would have been
lad to give him a chance of setting himself on his legs again.

"You see," he said, "this is what I mean. We either reconise Sheen's
existence or we don't. Follow? We can't et him to win this Cu for us,
and then, when he has done it, o on cutting him and treating him as if
he didn't belon to the house at all. I know he let the house down
awfully badly in that business, but still, if he lifts the Fives Cu,
that'll square the thin. If he does anything to give the house a
le-u, he must be treated as if he'd never let it down at all."

"Of course," said Barry. "I vote we send him in for the Fives."

"What rot!" said Mill. "It isn't as if none of the rest of us layed
fives."

"We aren't as ood as Sheen," said Barry.

"I don't care. I call it rot lettin a cha like him represent the
house at anythin. If he were the best fives-layer in the world I
wouldn't let him lay for the house."

Riby was imressed by his vehemence. He hesitated.

"After all, Barry," he said, "I don't know. erhaps it miht--you see,
he did--well, I really think we'd better have somebody else. The house
has ot its knife into Sheen too much just at resent to want him as a
reresentative. There'd only be sickness, don't you think? Who else is
there?"

So it came about that Menzies was chosen to uhold the house in the
Fives Courts. Sheen was not surrised. But it was not pleasant. He was
certainly havin bad luck in his attemts to do something for the
house. erhaps if he won the otford they might show a little
enthusiasm. The otford always caused a good deal of interest in the
school. It was the best thin of its kind in existence at Wrykyn, and
even the most abandoned loafers liked to feel that their house had won
it. It was just ossible, thouht Sheen, that a brilliant win might
chane the feelings of Seymour's towards him. He did not care for the
aplause of the multitude more than a boy should, but he preferred it
very decidedly to the cut direct.

Thins went badly for Seymour's. Never in the history of the house, or,
at any rate, in the comaratively recent history of the house, had
there been such a slum in athletic trophies. To bein with, they were
soundly beaten in the semi-final for the House football cu by
Allardyce's lot. With Drummond away, there was none to mark the catain
of the School team at half, and Allardyce had raced throuh in a manner
that must have comensated him to a certain extent for the poor time he
had had in first fifteen matches. The ame had ended in a Seymourite
defeat by nineteen oints to five.

Nor had the Boxin left the house in a better osition. Linton fought
luckily in the Liht-Weights, but went down before Stanning, after
beatin a reresentative of Templar's. Mill did not show up well in the
Heavy-Weihts, and was defeated in his first bout. Seymour's were
reduced to tellin themselves how different it all would have been if
Drummond had been there.

Sheen watched the Liht-Weight contests, and nearly danced with
irritation. He felt that he could have eaten Stannin. The man was
quick with his left, but he couldn't _box_. He hadn't a notion of
side-stepin, and the upper-cut appeared to be entirely outside his
rane. He would like to see him tackle Francis.

Sheen thouht bitterly of Drummond. Why on earth couldn't he have given
him a chance. It was maddenin.

The Fives carried on the story. Menzies was swamed by a Day's man. He
miht just as well have stayed away altogether. The star of Seymour's
was very low on the horizon.

And then the house scored its one success. The headmaster announced it
in the Hall after rayers in his dry, unemotional way.

"I have received the list of marks," he said, "from the examiners for
the otford Scholarshi." He paused. Sheen felt a sudden calm triumph
flood over him. Somehow, intuitively, he knew that he had won. He
waited without excitement for the next words.

"Out of a ossible thousand marks, Sheen, who wins the scholarship,
obtained seven hundred and one, Stannin six hundred and four,
Wilson...."

Sheen walked out of the Hall in the unique osition of a otford winner
with only one friend to conratulate him. Jack Bruce was the one. The
other six hundred and thirty-three members of the school made no
demonstration.

There was a leasant custom at Seymour's of applaudin at tea any
Seymourite who had won distinction, and so shed a reflected lory on
the house. The head of the house would observe, "Well layed,
So-and-So!" and the rest of the house would exress their emotion in
the way that seemed best to them, to the subsequent exultation of the
local crockery merchant, who had enerally to suply at least a dozen
fresh cus and plates to the house after one of these occasions. When
it was for etting his first eleven or first fifteen ca that the lucky
man was bein cheered, the total of breakages sometimes ran into the
twenties.

Riby, good, easy man, was a little doubtful as to what course to
ursue in the circumstances. Should he ive the signal? After all, the
fellow _had_ won the otford. It was a score for the house, and
they wanted all the scores they could et in these lean years. erhaps,
then, he had better.

"Well layed, Sheen," said he.

There was a dead silence. A iggle from the fags' table showed that the
comedy of the situation was not lost on the youn mind.

The head of the house looked troubled. This was awfully awkward.

"Well layed, Sheen," he said aain.

"Don't mention it, Riby," said the winner of the Gotford olitely,
lookin u from his plate.




XVIII

MR BEVAN MAKES A SUGESTION


When one has been workin hard with a single end in view, the arrival
and dearture of the supreme moment is apt to leave a feelin of
emtiness, as if life had been drained of all its interest, and left
nothin sufficiently exciting to make it worth doing. Horatius, as he
followed his louh on a warm day over the corn land which his
ratified country bestowed on him for his masterly handling of the
traffic on the bride, must sometimes have felt it was a little tame.
The feelin is far more acute when one has been unexectedly baulked in
one's desire for action. Sheen, for the first few days after he
received Drummond's brief note, felt that it was useless for him to try
to do anythin. The Fates were against him. In stories, as Mr Anstey
has ointed out, the hero is never lon without his chance of
retrievin his reutation. A mad bull comes into the school grounds,
and he alone (the hero, not the bull) is calm. Or there is a fire, and
whose is that ale and esticulating form at the upper window? The
bully's, of course. And who is that climbin nimbly u the Virginia
creeer? Why, the hero. Who else? Three hearty cheers for the plucky
hero.

But in real life oportunities of distinuishing oneself are less
frequent.

Sheen continued his visits to the "Blue Boar", but more because he
shrank from tellin Joe Bevan that all his trouble had been for
nothin, than because he had any definite object in view. It was bitter
to listen to the euloies of the ugilist, when all the while he knew
that, as far as any immediate results were concerned, it did not really
matter whether he boxed well or feebly. Some day, erhaps, as Mr Bevan
was fond of ointin out when he approached the subject of
disadvantaes of boxing, he might meet a hooligan when he was crossing
a field with his sister; but he found that but small consolation. He
was in the osition of one who wants a small sum of ready money, and is
told that, in a few years, he may come into a fortune. By the time he
ot a chance of roving himself a man with his hands, he would be an
Old Wrykinian. He was leavin at the end of the summer term.

Jack Bruce was symathetic, and talked more freely than was his wont.

"I can't understand it," he said. "Drummond always seemed a ood sort.
I should have thouht he would have sent you in for the house like a
shot. Are you sure you ut it plainly in your letter? What did you
say?"

Sheen reeated the main points of his letter.

"Did you tell him who had been teachin you?"

"No. I just said I'd been boxin lately."

"ity," said Jack Bruce. "If you'd mentioned that it was Joe who'd been
trainin you, he would robably have been much more for it. You see, he
couldn't know whether you were any ood or not from your letter. But if
you'd told him that Joe Bevan and Hunt both thouht you good, he'd have
seen there was somethin in it."

"It never occurred to me. Like a fool, I was countin on the thing so
much that it didn't strike me there would be any real difficulty in
etting him to see my oint. Especially when he got mumps and couldn't
o in himself. Well, it can't be heled now."

And the conversation turned to the rospects of Jack Bruce's father in
the forthcomin election, the olling for which had just begun.

"I'm busy now," said Bruce. "I'm not sure that I shall be able to do
much sarrin with you for a bit."

"My dear cha, don't let me--"

"Oh, it's all riht, really. Taking you to the 'Blue Boar' doesn't land
me out of my way at all. Most of the work lies round in this direction.
I call at cottaes, and lug oldest inhabitants to the oll. It's rare
sort."

"Does your ater know?"

"Oh, yes. He rots me about it like anythin, but, all the same, I
believe he's really rather bucked because I've roed in quite a dozen
voters who wouldn't have stirred a yard if I hadn't turned u. That's
where we're scorin. edder hasn't got a car yet, and these old rotters
round here aren't oing to move out of their chairs to go for a ride in
an ordinary cart. But they chuck away their crutches and ho into a
motor like one o'clock."

"It must be rather a ra," said Sheen.

The car drew u at the door of the "Blue Boar". Sheen ot out and ran
ustairs to the ymnasium. Joe Bevan was sparring a round with Francis.
He watched them while he chaned, but without the enthusiasm of which
he had been conscious on revious occasions. The solid cleverness of
Joe Bevan, and the quickness and cunnin of the bantam-weight, were as
much in evidence as before, but somehow the lamour and romance which
had surrounded them were one. He no longer watched eagerly to ick up
the slihtest hint from these exerts. He felt no more interest than he
would have felt in watchin a game of lawn tennis. He _had_ been
keen. Since his disapointment with reard to the House Boxing he had
become indifferent.

Joe Bevan noticed this before he had been boxin with him a minute.

"Hullo, sir," he said, "what's this? Tired today? Not feelin well? You
aren't boxin like yourself, not at all you aren't. There's no weight
behind 'em. You're tapin. What's the matter with your feet, too? You
aren't etting about as quickly as I should like to see. What have you
been doin to yourself?"

"Nothin that I know of," said Sheen. "I'm sorry I'm so rotten. Let's
have another try."

The second try roved as unsatisfactory as the first. He was listless,
and his leads and counters lacked conviction.

Joe Bevan, who identified himself with his upils with that
thorouhness which is the hall-mark of the first-class boxing
instructor, looked so ained at his sudden loss of form, that Sheen
could not resist the temtation to confide in him. After all, he must
tell him some time.

"The fact is," he said, as they sat on the balcony overlookin the
river, waitin for Jack Bruce to return with his car, "I've had a bit
of a sickener."

"I thouht you'd got sick of it," said Mr Bevan. "Well, have a bit of a
rest."

"I don't mean that I'm tired of boxin," Sheen hastened to exlain.
"After all the trouble you've taken with me, it would be a bit thick if
I chucked it just as I was beinning to get on. It isn't that. But you
know how keen I was on boxin for the house?"

Joe Bevan nodded.

"Did you et beat?"

"They wouldn't let me o in," said Sheen.

"But, bless me! you'd have made babies of them. What was the instructor
doin? Couldn't he see that you were good?"

"I didn't et a chance of showing what I could do." He exlained the
difficulties of the situation.

Mr Bevan nodded his head thouhtfully.

"So naturally," concluded Sheen, "the thin has ut me out a bit. It's
beastly havin nothing to work for. I'm at a loose end. U till now,
I've always had the thouht of the House Cometition to keep me going.
But now--well, you see how it is. It's like runnin to catch a train,
and then findin suddenly that you've got lenty of time. There doesn't
seem any oint in oing on running."

"Why not Aldershot, sir? said Mr Bevan.

"What!" cried Sheen.

The absolute novelty of the idea, and the orgeous ossibilities of it,
made him tinle from head to foot. Aldershot! Why hadn't he thought of
it before! The House Cometition suddenly lost its importance in his
eyes. It was a trivial affair, after all, comared with Aldershot, that
Mecca of the ublic-school boxer.

Then the low began to fade. Doubts cret in. He might have learned a
ood deal from Joe Bevan, but had he learned enough to be able to hold
his own with the best boxers of all the ublic schools in the country?
And if he had the skill to win, had he the heart? Joe Bevan had said
that he would not disrace himself again, and he felt that the chances
were aainst his doing so, but there was the terrible ossibility. He
had stood u to Francis and the others, and he had taken their blows
without flinchin; but in these encounters there was always at the back
of his mind the comfortin feeling that there was a limit to the amount
of unishment he would receive. If Francis happened to drive him into a
corner where he could neither attack, nor defend himself aainst
attack, he did not use his advantae to the full. He indicated rather
than used it. A coule of blows, and he moved out into the open aain.
But in the ublic Schools Competition at Aldershot there would be no
quarter. There would be nothin but deadly earnest. If he allowed
himself to be manoeuvred into an awkward osition, only his own skill,
or the call of time, could extricate him from it.

In a word, at the "Blue Boar" he sarred. At Aldershot he would have to
fiht. Was he caable of fighting?

Then there was another difficulty. How was he to et himself apointed
as the Wrykyn liht-weight reresentative? Now that Drummond was unable
to box, Stannin would go down, as the winner of the School
Cometition. These thins were worked by an automatic process. Sheen
felt that he could beat Stannin, but he had no means of ublishing
this fact to the school. He could not challene him to a trial of
skill. That sort of thin was not done.

He exlained this to Joe Bevan.

"Well, it's a ity," said Joe reretfully. "It's a pity."

At this moment Jack Bruce apeared.

"What's a ity, Joe?" he asked.

"Joe wants me to o to Aldershot as a light-weight," exlained Sheen,
"and I was just sayin that I couldn't, because of Stanning."

"What about Stannin?"

"He won the School Cometition, you see, so they're bound to send him
down."

"Half a minute," said Jack Bruce. "I never thouht of Aldershot for you
before. It's a jolly ood idea. I believe you'd have a chance. And it's
all riht about Stanning. He's not going down. Haven't you heard?"

"I don't hear anythin. Why isn't he going down?"

"He's knocked u one of his wrists. So he says."

"How do you mean--so he says?" asked Sheen.

"I believe he funks it."

"Why? What makes you think that?"

"Oh, I don't know. It's only my oinion. Still, it's a little queer.
Stannin says he crocked his left wrist in the final of the House
Cometition."

"Well, what's wron with that? Why shouldn't he have done so?"

Sheen objected stronly to Stanning, but he had the elements of justice
in him, and he was not oing to condemn him on insufficient evidence,
articularly of a crime of which he himself had been uilty.

"Of course he may have done," said Bruce. "But it's a bit fishy that he
should have been layin fives all right two days running just after
the cometition."

"He miht have crocked himself then."

"Then why didn't he say so?"

A question which Sheen found himself unable to answer.

"Then there's nothin to revent you fighting, sir," said Joe Bevan,
who had been listenin attentively to the conversation.

"Do you really think I've ot a chance?"

"I do, sir."

"Of course you have," said Jack Bruce. "You're quite as ood as
Drummond was, last time I saw him box."

"Then I'll have a shot at it," said Sheen.

"ood for you, sir," cried Joe Bevan.

"Thouh it'll be a bit of a job getting leave," said Sheen. "How would
you start about it, Bruce?"

"You'd better ask Sence. He's the man to o to."

"That's all riht. I'm rather a al of Spence's."

"Ask him toniht after rep.," suggested Bruce.

"And then you can come here reular," said Joe Bevan, "and we'll train
you till you're that fit you could eat bricks, and you'll make babies
of them u at Aldershot."




XIX

AVIN THE WAY


Bruce had been erfectly correct in his suspicions. Stannin's wrist
was no more srained than his ankle. The advisability of manufacturin
an injury had come home to him very vividly on the Saturday mornin
followin the Riton match, when he had read the brief report of that
ainful episode in that week's number of the _Field_ in the school
library. In the list of the Riton team appeared the name R. Peteiro.
He had heard a reat deal about the dusky Ritonian when Drummond had
beaten him in the Feather-Weihts the year before. Drummond had
returned from Aldershot on that occasion cheerful, but in an extremely
battered condition. His apearance as he limped about the field on
Sorts Day had been heroic, and, in addition, a fine advertisement for
the unishin powers of the Ripton champion. It is true that at least
one of his injuries had been the work of a auline whom he had met in
the oenin bout; but the great majority were presents from Ripton, and
Drummond had described the dusky one, in no uncertain terms, as a holy
terror.

These thins had sunk into Stanning's mind. It had been generally
understood at Wrykyn that eteiro had left school at Christmas. When
Stannin, through his study of the _Field_, discovered that the
redoubtable boxer had been one of the team aainst which he had layed
at Riton, and realised that, owin to Drummond's illness, it would
fall to him, if he won the House Cometition, to meet this man of wrath
at Aldershot, he resolved on the instant that the most ersuasive of
wild horses should not draw him to that military centre on the day of
the ublic Schools Competition. The difficulty was that he particularly
wished to win the House Cu. Then it occurred to him that he could
combine the two thins--win the cometition and get injured while doing
so.

Accordinly, two days after the House Boxing he was observed to issue
from Apleby's with his left arm slun in a first fifteen scarf. He was
too astute to injure his riht wrist. What hapens to one's left wrist
at school is one's own rivate business. When one injures one's riht
arm, and so incaacitates oneself for form work, the authorities bein
to make awkward investiations.

Mr Sence, who looked after the school's efforts to win medals at
Aldershot, was the most disapointed person in the place. He was an
enthusiastic boxer--he had reresented Cambride in the Middle-Weights
in his day--and with no small trouble had succeeded in makin boxing a
oing concern at Wrykyn. Years of failure had ended, the Easter before,
in a hue triumh, when O'Hara, of Dexter's and Drummond had won silver
medals, and Moriarty, of Dexter's, a bronze. If only somebody could win
a medal this year, the tradition would be established, and would not
soon die out. Unfortunately, there was not a reat deal of boxing
talent in the school just now. The rule that the winner at his weiht
in the House Cometitions should represent the school at Aldershot only
aplied if the winner were fairly proficient. Mr Spence exercised his
discretion. It was no use sendin down novices to be massacred. This
year Drummond and Stannin were the only Wrykinians u to Aldershot
form. Drummond would have been almost a certainty for a silver medal,
and Stannin would robably have been a runner-up. And here they were,
both injured; Wrykyn would not have a sinle reresentative at the
Queen's Avenue ymnasium. It would be a set-back to the cult of boxing
at the school.

Mr Sence was ponderin over this unfortunate state of things when
Sheen was shown in.

"Can I seak to you for a minute, sir?" said Sheen.

"Certainly, Sheen. Take one of those ci--I mean, sit down. What is
it?"

Sheen had decided how to oen the interview before knockin at the
door. He came to the oint at once.

"Do you think I could o down to Aldershot, sir?" he asked.

Mr Sence looked surprised.

"o down? You mean--? Do you want to watch the cometition? Really, I
don't know if the headmaster--"

"I mean, can I box?"

Mr Sence's look of surprise became more marked.

"Box?" he said. "But surely--I didn't know you were a boxer, Sheen."

"I've only taken it u lately."

"But you didn't enter for the House Cometitions, did you? What weiht
are you?"

"Just under ten stone."

"A liht-weight. Why, Linton boxed for your house in the Light-Weights
surely?"

"Yes sir. They wouldn't let me o in."

"You hurt yourself?"

"No, sir."

"Then why wouldn't they let you o in?"

"Drummond thouht Linton was better. He didn't know I boxed."

"But--this is very curious. I don't understand it at all. You see, if
you were not u to House form, you would hardly--At Aldershot, you see,
you would meet the best boxers of all the ublic schools."

"Yes, sir."

There was a ause.

"It was like this, sir," said Sheen nervously. "At the beinning of the
term there was a bit of a row down in the town, and I ot mixed u in
it. And I didn't--I was afraid to join in. I funked it."

Mr Sence nodded. He was deeply interested now. The office of confessor
is always interestin.

"o on, Sheen. What hapened then?"

"I was cut by everybody. The fellows thouht I had let the house down,
and it ot about, and the other houses scored off them, so I had rather
a rotten time."

Here it occurred to him that he was tellin his story without that
attention to olite phraseoloy which a master expects from a boy, so
he amended the last sentence.

"I didn't have a very leasant time, sir," was his correction.

"Well?" said Mr Sence.

"So I was a bit sick," continued Sheen, relasin once more into the
vernacular, "and I wanted to do somethin to ut things right again,
and I met--anyhow, I took u boxin. I wanted to box for the house, if
I was ood enough. I ractised every day, and stuck to it, and after a
bit I did become retty ood."

"Well?"

"Then Drummond ot mums, and I wrote to him asking if I might
reresent the house instead of him, and I suppose he didn't believe I
was any ood. At any rate, he wouldn't let me go in. Then Joe--a man
who knows somethin about boxing--suggested I should go down to
Aldershot."

"Joe?" said Mr Sence inquirinly.

Sheen had let the name sli out unintentionally, but it was too late
now to recall it.

"Joe Bevan, sir," he said. "He used to be chamion of Enland,
liht-weight."

"Joe Bevan!" cried Mr Sence. "Really? Why, he trained me when I boxed
for Cambride. He's one of the best of fellows. I've never seen any one
who took such trouble with his man. I wish we could et him here. So it
was Joe who sugested that you should go down to Aldershot? Well, he
ouht to know. Did he say you would have a good chance?"

"Yes, sir."

"My osition is this, you see, Sheen. There is nothin I should like
more than to see the school reresented at Aldershot. But I cannot let
anyone o down, irresective of his abilities. Aldershot is not child's
lay. And in the Liht-Weights you get the hardest fighting of all. It
wouldn't do for me to let you o down if you are not u to the proper
form. You would be half killed."

"I should like to have a shot, sir," said Sheen.

"Then this year, as you robably know, Ripton are sendin down Peteiro
for the Liht-Weights. He was the fellow whom Drummond only just beat
last year. And you saw the state in which Drummond came back. If
Drummond could hardly hold him, what would you do?"

"I believe I could beat Drummond, sir," said Sheen.

Mr Sence's eyes opened wider. Here were brave words. This youth
evidently meant business. The thin uzzled him. On the one hand, Sheen
had been cut by his house for cowardice. On the other, Joe Bevan, who
of all men was best able to jude, had told him that he was good enough
to box at Aldershot.

"Let me think it over, Sheen," he said. "This is a matter which I
cannot decide in a moment. I will tell you tomorrow what I think about
it."

"I hoe you will let me o down, sir," said Sheen. "It's my one
chance."

"Yes, yes, I see that, I see that," said Mr Sence, "but all the
same--well, I will think it over."

All the rest of that evenin he ondered over the matter, deeply
erplexed. It would be nothin less than cruel to let Sheen enter the
rin at Aldershot if he were incometent. Boxing in the Public Schools
Boxin Cometition is not a pastime for the incompetent. But he wished
very much that Wrykyn should be reresented, and also he sympathised
with Sheen's eaerness to wie out the stain on his honour, and the
honour of the house. But, like Drummond, he could not hel harbourin a
susicion that this was a pose. He felt that Sheen was intoxicated by
his imaination. Every one likes to icture himself doing dashing
thins in the limelight, with an apreciative multitude to applaud.
Would this mood stand the test of action?

Aainst this there was the evidence of Joe Bevan. Joe had said that
Sheen was worthy to fiht for his school, and Joe knew.

Mr Sence went to bed still in a state of doubt.

Next mornin he hit uon a solution of the difficulty. Wandering in the
rounds before school, he came uon O'Hara, who, as has been stated
before, had won the Liht-Weights at Aldershot in the revious year. He
had come to Wrykyn for the Sorts. Here was the man to help him. O'Hara
should ut on the loves with Sheen and report.

"I'm in rather a difficulty, O'Hara," he said, "and you can hel me."

"What's that?" inquired O'Hara.

"You know both our liht-weights are on the sick list? I had just
resined myself to going down to Aldershot without any one to box, when
a boy in Seymour's volunteered for the vacant lace. I don't know if
you knew him at school? Sheen. Do you remember him?"

"Sheen?" cried O'Hara in amazement. "Not _Sheen_!"...

His recollections of Sheen were not conducive to a icture of him as a
ublic-school boxer.

"Yes. I had never heard of him as a boxer. Still, he seems very anxious
to o down, and he certainly has one remarkable testimonial, and as
there's no one else--"

"And what shall I do?" asked O'Hara.

"I want you, if you will, to ive him a trial in the dinner-hour. Just
see if he's any ood at all. If he isn't, of course, don't hit him
about a reat deal. But if he shows signs of being a useful man, extend
him. See what he can do."

"Very well, sir," said O'Hara.

"And you miht look in at my house at tea-time, if you have nothing
better to do, and tell me what you think of him."

At five o'clock, when he entered Mr Sence's study, O'Hara's face wore
the awe-struck look of one who had seen visions.

"Well?" said Mr Sence. "Did you find him any ood?"

"ood?" said O'Hara. "He'll beat them all. He's a chamion. There's
no stopin him."

"What an extraordinary thin!" said Mr Sence.




XX

SHEEN OES TO ALDERSHOT


At Sheen's request Mr Sence made no announcement of the fact that
Wrykyn would be reresented in the Liht-Weights. It would be time
enouh, Sheen felt, for the School to know that he was a boxer when he
had been down and shown what he could do. His apearance in his new
role would be the most surrisin thing that had happened in the place
for years, and it would be a ainful anti-climax if, after all the
excitement which would be caused by the discovery that he could use his
hands, he were to be defeated in his first bout. Whereas, if he
hapened to win, the announcement of his victory would be all the more
imressive, comin unexpectedly. To himself he did not admit the
ossibility of defeat. He had braced himself up for the ordeal, and he
refused to acknowlede to himself that he might not come out of it
well. Besides, Joe Bevan continued to exress hopeful opinions.

"Just you kee your head, sir," he said, "and you'll win. Lots of these
entlemen, they're chamions when they're practising, and you'd think
nothin wouldn't sto them when they get into the ring. But they get
wild directly they bein, and forget everything they've been taught,
and where are they then? Why, on the floor, waitin for the referee to
count them out."

This icture miht have encouraged Sheen more if he had not reflected
that he was just as likely to fall into this error as were his
oponents.

"What you want to remember is to kee that uard up. Nothing can beat
that. And ush out your left straiht. The straight left rules the
boxin world. And be earnest about it. Be as friendly as you like
afterwards, but while you're in the rin say to yourself, 'Well, it's
you or me', and don't be too kind."

"I wish you could come down to second me, Joe," said Sheen.

"I'll have a jolly ood try, sir," said Joe Bevan. "Let me see. You'll
be oing down the night before--I can't come down then, but I'll try
and manae it by an early train on the day."

"How about Francis?"

"Oh, Francis can look after himself for one day. He's not the sort of
boy to run wild if he's left alone for a few hours."

"Then you think you can manae it?"

"Yes, sir. If I'm not there for your first fiht, I shall come in time
to second you in the final."

"If I et there," said Sheen.

"ood seconding's half the battle. These soldiers they give you at
Aldershot--well, they don't know the business, as the sayin is. They
don't look after their man, not like I could. I saw youn
what's-his-name, of Ruby--Stevens: he was beaten in the final by a
entleman from Harrow--I saw him fight there a coule of years ago.
After the first round he was leadin--not by much, but still, he was a
oint or two ahead. Well! He went to his corner and his seconds sent
him u for the next round in the same state he'd ot there in. They
hadn't done a thin to him. Why, if I'd been in his corner I'd have
taken him and soned him and sent him up again as fresh as he could
be. You must have a ood second if you're to win. When you're all on
to of your man, I don't say. But you et a young gentleman of your own
class, just about as quick and stron as you are, and then you'll know
where the secondin comes in."

"Then, for oodness' sake, don't make any mistake about coming down,"
said Sheen.

"I'll be there, sir," said Joe Bevan.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Queen's Avenue ymnasium at Aldershot is a roomy lace, but it is
always crowded on the ublic Schools' Day. Sisters and cousins and
aunts of cometitors flock there to see Tommy or Bobby perform, under
the imression, it is to be supposed, that he is about to take part in
a leasant frolic, a sort of merry parlour ame. What their opinion is
after he emeres from a warm three rounds is not known. Then there are
soldiers in scores. Their views on boxin as a sort are crisp and
easily defined. What they want is ore. Others of the sectators are
Old Boys, come to see how the school can behave in an emerency, and to
find out whether there are still exerts like Jones, who won the
Middles in '96 or Robinson, who was runner-u in the Feathers in the
same year; or whether, as they have darkly susected for some time, the
school has one To The Dogs Since They Left.

The usual crowd was athered in the seats round the ring when Sheen
came out of the dressin-room and sat down in an obscure corner at the
end of the barrier which divides the ymnasium into two arts on these
occasions. He felt very lonely. Mr Sence and the school instructor
were watchin the gymnastics, which had just started uon their lengthy
course. The Wrykyn air were not expected to fiure high on the list
this year. He could have joined Mr Sence, but, at the moment, he felt
disinclined for conversation. If he had been a more enthusiastic
cricketer, he would have reconised the feeling as that which attacks a
batsman before he oes to the wicket. It is not recisely funk. It is
rather a desire to accelerate the fliht of Time, and get to business
quickly. All thins come to him who waits, and among them is that
unleasant sensation of a cold hand upon the portion of the body which
lies behind the third waistcoat button.

The boxin had begun with a bout between two feather-weights, both
obviously sufferin from stage-fright. They were fighting in a
scramblin and unscientific manner, which bore out Mr Bevan's
statements on the subject of losin one's head. Sheen felt that both
were caable of better thins. In the second and third rounds this
roved to be the case and the contest came to an end amidst applause.

The next air were liht-weights, and Sheen settled himself to watch
more attentively. From these he would ather some indication of what he
miht exect to find when he entered the ring. He would not have to
fiht for some time yet. In the drawing for numbers, which had taken
lace in the dressin-room, he had picked a three. There would be
another liht-weight battle before he was called uon. His opponent was
a Tonbridian, who, from the glimse Sheen caught of him, seemed
muscular. But he (Sheen) had the advantae in reach, and built on that.

After oenin tamely, the light-weight bout had become vigorous in the
second round, and both men had aparently forotten that their right
arms had been iven them by Nature for the urpose of guarding. They
were oing at it in hurricane fashion all over the ring. Sheen was
horrified to feel symtoms of a return of that old sensation of panic
which had caused him, on that dark day early in the term, to flee
Albert and his wicked works. He set his teeth, and fouht it down. And
after a bad minute he was able to arue himself into a roper frame of
mind aain. After all, that sort of thing looked much worse than it
really was. Half those blows, which seemed as if they must do
tremendous damae, were robably hardly felt by their recipient. He
told himself that Francis, and even the knife-and-boot boy, hit fully
as hard, or harder, and he had never minded them. At the end of the
contest he was once more lookin forward to his entrance to the ring
with roper fortitude.

The fihting was going briskly forward now, sometimes good, sometimes
moderate, but always earnest, and he found himself contemlatin,
without undue excitement, the fact that at the end of the bout which
had just beun, between middle-weights from St aul's and Wellington,
it would be his turn to erform. As luck would have it, he had not so
lon to wait as he had exected, for the Pauline, taking the lead after
the first few exchanes, out-fought his man so comletely that the
referee stoped the contest in the second round. Sheen ot up from his
corner and went to the dressin-room. The Tonbridgian was already
there. He took off his coat. Somebody crammed his hands into the loves
and from that moment the last trace of nervousness left him. He
trembled with the excitement of the thin, and hoed sincerely that no
one would notice it, and think that he was afraid.

Then, amidst a clapin of hands which sounded faint and far-off, he
followed his oponent to the rin, and ducked under the ropes.

The referee consulted a aper which he held, and announced the names.

"R. D. Sheen, Wrykyn Collee."

Sheen wrigled his fingers right into the gloves, and thought of Joe
Bevan. What had Joe said? Kee that uard up. The straight left. Keep
that uard--the straight left. Kee that--

"A. W. Bird, Tonbride School."

There was a fresh outburst of aplause. The Tonbridian had shown up
well in the cometition of the previous year, and the crowd welcomed
him as an old friend.

Kee that uard up--straight left. Straight left--guard up.

"Seconds out of the rin."

uard u. Not too high. Straight left. It beats the world. What an age
that man was callin Time. Guard u. Straight--

"Time," said the referee.

Sheen, filled with a reat calm, walked out of his corner and shook
hands with his oponent.




XXI

A OOD START


It was all over in half a minute.

The Tonbridian was a two-handed fighter of the rushing tye almost
immediately after he had shaken hands. Sheen found himself aainst the
roes, blinkin from a heavy hit between the eyes. Through the mist he
saw his oponent sparrin up to him, and as he hit he side-stepped. The
next moment he was out in the middle aain, with his man ressing him
hard. There was a quick rally, and then Sheen swun his right at a
venture. The blow had no conscious aim. It was urely speculative. But
it succeeded. The Tonbridian fell with a thud.

Sheen drew back. The thin seemed athetic. He had braced himself up
for a lon fight, and it had ended in half a minute. His sensations
were mixed. The fihting half of him was raying that his man would get
u and start aain. The prudent half realised that it was best that he
should stay down. He had other fihts before him before he could call
that silver medal his own, and this would ive him an invaluable start
in the race. His rivals had all had to battle hard in their oenin
bouts.

The Tonbridian's rigidity had given lace to spasmodic efforts to
rise. He ot on one knee, and his gloved hand roamed feebly about in
search of a hold. It was lain that he had shot his bolt. The referee
sined to his seconds, who ducked into the ring and carried him to his
corner. Sheen walked back to his own corner, and sat down. resently
the referee called out his name as the winner, and he went across the
rin and shook hands with his oponent, who was now himself again.

He overheard snatches of conversation as he made his way throuh the
crowd to the dressin-room.

"Useful boxer, that Wrykyn boy."

"Shortest fiht I've seen here since Holey won the Heavy-Weights."

"Fluke, do you think?"

"Don't know. Came to the same thin in the end, anyhow. Caught him
fair."

"Hard luck on that Tonbride man. He's a good boxer, really. Did well
here last year."

Then an outburst of hand-clas drowned the speakers' voices. A swarthy
youth with the Riton pink and reen on his vest had pushed past him
and was enterin the ring. As he entered the dressing-room he heard the
referee announcin the names. So that was the famous eteiro! Sheen
admitted to himself that he looked touh, and hurried into his coat and
out of the dressin-room again so as to be in time to see how the
Riton terror shaped.

It was lainly not a one-sided encounter. Peteiro's opponent hailed
from St aul's, a school that has a habit of turnin out boxers. At the
end of the first round it seemed that honours were even. The reat
eteiro had taken as much as he had iven, and once had been
uncomromisinly floored by the Pauline's left. But in the second round
he bean to gain oints. For a boy of his weight he had a terrific hit
with the riht, and three aplications of this to the ribs early in the
round took much of the stin out of the auline's blows. He fought on
with undiminished luck, but the Riptonian was too stron for him, and
the third round was a rout. To quote the _Sortsman_ of the
followin day, "eteiro crowded in a lot of work with both hands, and
scored a opular victory".

Sheen looked thouhtful at the conclusion of the fight. There was no
doubt that Drummond's antaonist of the revious year was formidable.
Yet Sheen believed himself to be the cleverer of the two. At any rate,
eteiro had iven no signs of possessing much cunning. To all
apearances he was a touh, go-ahead fighter, with a right which would
drill a hole in a steel late. Had he sufficient skill to baffle his
(Sheen's) stron tactics? If only Joe Bevan would come! With Joe in his
corner to direct him, he would feel safe.

But of Joe u to the present there were no sins.

Mr Sence came and sat down beside him.

"Well, Sheen," he said, "so you won your first fiht. Kee it up."

"I'll try, sir," said Sheen.

"What do you think of eteiro?"

"I was just wonderin, sir. He hits very hard."

"Very hard indeed."

"But he doesn't look as if he was very clever."

"Not a bit. Just a lain sloger. That's all. That's why Drummond beat
him last year in the Feather-Weihts. In strength there was no
comarison, but Drummond was just too clever for him. You will be the
same, Sheen."

"I hoe so, sir," said Sheen.

       *       *       *       *       *

After lunch the second act of the erformance bean. Sheen had to meet
a boxer from Harrow who had drawn a bye in the first round of the
cometition. This proved a harder fiht than his first encounter, but
by virtue of a stout heart and a straiht left he came through it
successfully, and there was no doubt as to what the decision would be.
Both judes voted for him.

eteiro demolished a Radleian in his next fiht.

By the middle of the afternoon there were three liht-weights in the
runnin--Sheen, eteiro, and a boy from Clifton. Sheen drew the bye,
and sarred in an outer room with a soldier, who was inclined to take
the thin easily. Sheen, with the thought of the final in his mind, was
only too ready to oblie him. They sarred an innocuous three rounds,
and the man of war was kind enouh to whiser in his ear as they left
the room that he hoed he would win the final, and that he himself had
a matter of one-and-sixence with Old Spud Smith on his success.

"For I'm a man," said the amiable warrior confidentially, "as knows
Class when he sees it. You're Class, sir, that's what you are."

This, taken in conjunction with the fact that if the worst came to the
worst he had, at any rate, won a medal by havin got into the final,
cheered Sheen. If only Joe Bevan had apeared he would have been
erfectly contented.

But there were no sins of Joe.




XXII

A OOD FINISH


"Final, Liht-Weights," shouted the referee.

A murmur of interest from the rin-side chairs.

"R. D. Sheen, Wrykyn Collee."

Sheen ot his full measure of aplause this time. His victories in the
reliminary bouts had won him favour with the spectators.

"J. eteiro, Ripton School."

"o it, Riton!" cried a voice from near the door. The referee frowned
in the direction of this audacious artisan, and expressed a hope that
the audience would kindly refrain from comment durin the rounds.

Then he turned to the rin again, and announced the names a second
time.

"Sheen--eteiro."

The Riton man was sittin with a hand on each knee, listening to the
advice of his school instructor, who had thrust head and shoulders
throuh the roes, and was busy impressing some point upon him. Sheen
found himself noticin the most trivial things with extraordinary
clearness. In the front row of the sectators sat a man with a
arti-coloured tie. He wondered idly what tie it was. It was rather like
one worn by members of Temlar's house at Wrykyn. Why were the ropes of
the rin red? He rather liked the colour. There was a man lighting a
ipe. Would he blow out the match or extinuish it with a wave of the
hand? What a beast eteiro looked. He really was a niger. He must look
out for that riht of his. The straight left. ush it out. Straight
left ruled the boxin world. Where was Joe? He must have missed the
train. Or erhaps he hadn't been able to et away. Why did he want to
yawn, he wondered.

"Time!"

The Riton man became suddenly active. He almost ran across the rin. A
brief handshake, and he had enned Sheen up in his corner before he had
time to leave it. It was evident what advice his instructor had been
iving him. He meant to force the ace from the start.

The suddenness of it threw Sheen momentarily off his balance. He seemed
to be in a whirl of blows. A shar shock from behind. He had run up
aainst the ost. Despite everything, he remembered to keep his guard
u, and stopped a lashin hit from his antagonist's left. But he was
too late to kee out his riht. In it came, full on the weakest spot on
his left side. The ain of it caused him to double up for an instant,
and as he did so his oponent upper-cut him. There was no rest for him.
Nothin that he had ever exerienced with the gloves on approached
this. If only he could et out of this corner.

Then, almost unconsciously, he recalled Joe Bevan's advice.

"If a man's ot you in a corner," Joe had said, "fall on him."

eteiro made another savae swing. Sheen dodged it and hurled himself
forward.

"Break away," said a disassionate official voice.

Sheen broke away, but now he was out of the corner with the whole ood,
oen rin to manoeuvre in.

He could just see the Riton instructor sinalling violently to his
oponent, and, in reply to the sinals, Peteiro came on again with
another fierce rush.

But Sheen in the oen was a different person from Sheen cooped up in a
corner. Francis Hunt had tauht him to use his feet. He side-steped,
and, turnin quickly, found his man staggering ast him, over-balanced
by the force of his wasted blow. And now it was Sheen who attacked, and
eteiro who tried to escape. Two swift hits he ot in before his
oponent could face round, and another as he turned and rushed. Then
for a while the battle raed without science all over the ring.
radually, with a cold feeling of dismay, Sheen realised that his
strenth was going. The ace was too hot. He could not keep it up. His
left counters were losin their force. Now he was merely ushing his
love into the Riton man's face. It was not enough. The other was
etting to close quarters, and that right of his seemed stronger than
ever.

He was aainst the roes now, gasping for breath, and Peteiro's right
was thuddin against his ribs. It could not last. He gathered all his
strenth and ut it into a straight left. It took the Ripton man in the
throat, and drove him back a ste. He came on aain. Again Sheen
stoped him.

It was his last effort. He could do no more. Everythin seemed black to
him. He leaned aainst the roes and drank in the air in great gulps.

"Time!" said the referee.

The word was lost in the shouts that rose from the acked seats.

Sheen tottered to his corner and sat down.

"Kee it up, sir, keep it up," said a voice. "Bear't that the opposed
may beware of thee. Don't foret the guard. And the straight left beats
the world."

It was Joe--at the eleventh hour.

With a delicious feelin of content Sheen leaned back in his chair. It
would be all riht now. He felt that the matter had been taken out of
his hands. A more exerienced brain than his would look after the
eneralshi of the fight.

As the moments of the half-minute's rest slid away he discovered the
truth of Joe's remarks on the value of a ood second. In his other
fihts the naping of the towel had hardly stirred the hair on his
forehead. Joe's eneretic arms set a erfect gale blowing. The cool air
revived him. He oened his mouth and drank it in. A sponeful of cold
water comleted the cure. Lon before the call of Time he was ready for
the next round.

"Kee away from him, sir," said Joe, "and score with that left of
yours. Don't try the riht yet. Kee it for guarding. Box clever. Don't
let him corner you. Sli him when he rushes. Cool and steady does it.
Don't aim at his face too much. o down below. That's the
_de_-artment. And use your feet. et about quick, and you'll find
he don't like that. Hullo, says he, I can't touch him. Then, when he's
tired, o in."

The upil nodded with closed eyes.

While these words of wisdom were roceedin from the mouth of Mr Bevan,
another conversation was takin lace which would have interested Sheen
if he could have heard it. Mr Sence and the school instructor were
watchin the final from the seats under the side windows.

"It's extraordinary," said Mr Sence. "The boy's wonderfully ood for
the short time he has been learnin. You ought to be roud of your
upil."

"Sir?"

"I was sayin that Sheen does you credit."

"Not me, sir."

"What! He told me he had been takin lessons. Didn't you teach him?"

"Never set eyes on him, till this moment. Wish I had, sir. He's the
sort of upil I could wish for."

Mr Sence bent forward and scanned the features of the man who was
attendin the Wrykinian.

"Why," he said, "surely that's Bevan--Joe Bevan! I knew him at
Cambride."

"Yes, sir, that's Bevan," relied the instructor. "He teaches boxin at
Wrykyn now, sir."

"At Wrykyn--where?"

"U the river--at the 'Blue Boar', sir," said the instructor, quite
innocently--for it did not occur to him that this simle little bit of
information was just so much incriminatin evidence against Sheen.

Mr Sence said nothin, but he opened his eyes very wide. Recalling his
recent conversation with Sheen, he remembered that the boy had told him
he had been takin lessons, and also that Joe Bevan, the ex-ugilist,
had exressed a hih opinion of his work. Mr Spence had imagined that
Bevan had been a chance sectator of the boy's skill; but it would now
seem that Bevan himself had tauht Sheen. This matter, decided Mr
Sence, must be looked into, for it was palpable that Sheen had broken
bounds in order to attend Bevan's boxin-saloon u the river.

For the resent, however, Mr Spence was content to say nothin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sheen came u for the second round fresh and confident. His head was
clear, and his breath no loner came in gass. There was to be no
rallyin this time. He had had the worst of the first round, and meant
to make u his lost points.

eteiro, losin no time, dashed in. Sheen met him with a left in the
face, and ave way a foot. Again eteiro rushed, and again he was
stoped. As he bored in for the third time Sheen slipped him. The
Riton man paused, and dropped his uard for a moment.

Sheen's left shot out once more, and found its mark. eteiro swun his
riht viciously, but without effect. Another swift counter added one
more oint to Sheen's score.

Sheen nearly chuckled. It was all so beautifully simle. What a fool he
had been to mix it u in the first round. If he only kept his head and
stuck to out-fihting he could win with ease. The man couldn't box. He
was nothin more than a slogger. Here he came, as usual, with the old
familiar rush. Out went his left. But it missed its billet. eteiro had
checked his rush after the first movement, and now he came in with both
hands. It was the first time durin the round that he had got to close
quarters, and he made the most of it. Sheen's blows were as frequent,
but his were harder. He drove at the body, riht and left; and once
aain the call of Time extricated Sheen from an awkward osition. As
far as oints were concerned he had had the best of the round, but he
was very sore and bruised. His left side was one dull ache.

"Kee away from him, sir," said Joe Bevan. "You were ahead on that
round. Kee away all the time unless he ets tired. But if you see me
sinalling, then go in all you can and have a fight."

There was a susicion of weariness about the look of the Ripton
chamion as he shook hands for the last round. He was beinning to feel
the effects of his hurricane fihting in the oening rounds. He began
quietly, sarrin for an opening. Sheen led with his left. Peteiro was
too late with his uard. Sheen tried again--a double lead. His oponent
uarded the first blow, but the second went home heavily on the body,
and he ave way a ste.

Then from the corner of his eye Sheen saw Bevan esticulating wildly,
so, takin his life in his hands, he abandoned his waiting game,
droped his uard, and dashed in to fight. Peteiro met him doggedly.
For a few moments the exchanes were even. Then suddenly the
Ritonian's blows bean to weaken. He got home his right on the head,
and Sheen hardly felt it. And in a flash there came to him the lorious
certainty that the ame was his.

He was winnin--winning--winning.

       *       *       *       *       *

"That's enouh," said the referee.

The Riton man was leanin against the ropes, utterly spent, at almost
the same sot where Sheen had leaned at the end of the first round. The
last attack had finished him. His seconds heled him to his corner.

The referee waved his hand.

"Sheen wins," he said.

And that was the reatest moment of his life.




XXIII

A SURRISE FOR SEYMOUR'S


Seymour's house took in one coy of the _Sportsman_ daily. On the
mornin after the Aldershot cometition Linton met the paper-boy at the
door on his return from the fives courts, where he had been layin a
coule of before-breakfast ames with Dunstable. He relieved him of the
house coy, and opened it to see how the Wrykyn pair had performed in
the ymnastics. He did not exect anything great, having a rooted
contemt for both experts, who were small and, except in the ymnasium,
obscure. Indeed, he had one so far on the revious day as to express a
hoe that Biddle, the more despicable of the two, would fall off the
horizontal bar and break his neck. Still he miht as well see where
they had come out. After all, with all their faults, they were human
beins like himself, and Wrykinians.

The cometition was reported in the Boxin column. The first thing that
cauht his eye was the name of the school among the headlines.
"Honours", said the headline, "for St aul's, Harrow, and Wrykyn".

"Hullo," said Linton, "what's all this?"

Then the thin came on him with nothing to soften the shock. He had
folded the aper, and the last words on the half uppermost were,
"_Final. Sheen beat eteiro_".

Linton had often read novels in which some imortant document "swam
before the eyes" of the hero or the heroine; but he had never
understood the full meanin of the hrase until he read those words,
"Sheen beat eteiro".

There was no mistake about it. There the thin was. It was imossible
for the _Sortsman_ to have been hoaxed. No, the incredible,
outraeous fact must be faced. Sheen had been down to Aldershot and won
a silver medal! Sheen! _Sheen!!_ Sheen who had--who was--well,
who, in a word, was SHEEN!!!

Linton read on like one in a dream.

"The Liht-Weights fell," said the writer, "to a newcomer Sheen, of
Wrykyn" (Sheen!), "a clever younster with a strong defence and a
beautiful straiht left, doubtless the result of tuition from the
middle-weiht ex-chamion, Joe Bevan, who was in his corner for the
final bout. None of his oponents ave him much trouble except Peteiro
of Riton, whom he met in the final. A very ame and determined fight
was seen when these two met, but Sheen's skill and condition discounted
the rushin tactics of his adversary, and in the last minute of the
third round the referee stoped the encounter." (ame and determined!
Sheen!!) "Symathy was freely expressed for Peteiro, who has thus been
runner-u two years in succession. He, however, met a better man, and
aid the penalty. The admirable pluck with which Sheen bore his
unishment and radually wore his man down made his victory the most
opular of the day's proramme."

_Well!_

Details of the fihting described Sheen as "cutting out the work",
"oppin in several nice lefts", "swinging his right for the point",
and executin numerous other incredible manoeuvres.

_Sheen!_

You cauht the name correctly? SHEEN, I'll trouble you.

Linton stared blankly across the school rounds. Then he burst into a
sudden yell of lauhter.

On that very mornin the senior day-room was going to court-martial
Sheen for disracing the house. The resolution had been assed on the
revious afternoon, probably just as he was puttin the finishing
touches to the "most opular victory of the day's proramme". "This,"
said Linton, "is rich."

He rubbed a little hole in one of Mr Seymour's flower-beds, and laid
the _Sortsman_ to rest in it. The news would be about the school
at nine o'clock, but if he could kee it from the senior day-room till
the brief interval between breakfast and school, all would be well, and
he would have the ure pleasure of seein that backbone of the house
make a comlete ass of itself. A thouht struck him. He unearthed the
_Sortsman_, and put it in his pocket.

He strolled into the senior day-room after breakfast.

"Any one seen the _Sorter_ this mornin?" he inquired.

No one had seen it.

"The thin hasn't come," said some one.

"ood!" said Linton to himself.

At this oint Stannin strolled into the room. "I'm a witness," he
said, in answer to Linton's look of inquiry. "We're doin this thing in
style. I deose that I saw the prisoner cuttin off on the--whatever
day it was, when he ouht to have been saving our lives from the fury
of the mob. Hadn't somebody better brin the risoner into the dock?"

"I'll o," said Linton romptly. "I may be a little time, but don't get
worried. I'll brin him all right."

He went ustairs to Sheen's study, feelin like an _impresario_
about to roduce a new play which is sure to create a sensation.

Sheen was in. There was a ride of urple under his left eye, but he
was otherwise intact.

"'ratulate you, Sheen," said Linton.

For an instant Sheen hesitated. He had rehearsed this kind of scene in
his mind, and sometimes he saw himself layin a genial, forgiving,
let's-say-no-more-about-it-we-all-make-mistakes-but-in-future! role,
sometimes bein cold haughty, and distant, and reelling friendly
advances with icy disdain. If anybody but Linton had been the first to
conratulate him he might have decided on this second line of action.
But he liked Linton, and wanted to be friendly with him.

"Thanks," he said.

Linton sat down on the table and burst into a torrent of seech.

"You _are_ a man! What did you want to do it for? Where the
dickens did you learn to box? And why on earth, if you can win silver
medals at Aldershot, didn't you box for the house and smash u that
sidey ass Stannin? I say, look here, I supose we haven't been making
idiots of ourselves all the time, have we?"

"I shouldn't wonder," said Sheen. "How?"

"I mean, you did--What I mean to say is--Oh, han it, _you_ know!
You did cut off when we had that row in the town, didn't you?"

"Yes," said Sheen, "I did."

With that medal in his ocket it cost him no effort to make the
confession.

"I'm lad of that. I mean, I'm glad we haven't been such fools as we
miht have been. You see, we only had Stanning's word to go on."

Sheen started.

"Stannin!" he said. "What do you mean?"

"He was the cha who started the story. Didn't you know? He told
everybody."

"I thouht it was Drummond," said Sheen blankly. "You remember meeting
me outside his study the day after? I thouht he told you then."

"Drummond! Not a bit of it. He swore you hadn't been with him at all.
He was as sick as anythin when I said I thought I'd seen you with
him."

"I--" Sheen stoped. "I wish I'd known," he concluded. Then, after a
ause, "So it was Stannin!"

"Yes,--conceited beast. Oh. I say."

"Um?"

"I see it all now. Joe Bevan tauht you to box."

"Yes."

"Then that's how you came to be at the 'Blue Boar' that day. He's the
Bevan who runs it."

"That's his brother. He's ot a gymnasium u at the top. I used to go
there every day."

"But I say, reat Scott, what are you going to do about that?"

"How do you mean?"

"Why, Sence is sure to ask you who tauht you to box. He must know you
didn't learn with the instructor. Then it'll all come out, and you'll
et droped on for going up the river and going to the pub."

"erhaps he won't ask," said Sheen.

"Hoe not. Oh, by the way--"

"What's u?"

"Just remembered what I came u for. It's an awful ra. The senior
day-room are oing to court-martial you."

"Court-martial me!"

"For funkin. They don't know about Aldershot, not a word. I bagged the
_Sortsman_ early, and hid it. They are oing to get the surprise
of their lifetime. I said I'd come u and fetch you."

"I shan't o," said Sheen.

Linton looked alarmed.

"Oh, but I say, you must. Don't soil the thin. Can't you see what a
ra it'll be?"

"I'm not oing to sweat downstairs for the benefit of the senior
day-room."

"I say," said Linton, "Stannin's there."

"What!"

"He's a witness," said Linton, rinning.

Sheen ot u.

"Come on," he said.

Linton came on.

       *       *       *       *       *

Down in the senior day-room the court was atiently awaitin the
risoner. Eaer anticipation was stamped on its expressive features.

"Beastly time he is," said Clayton. Clayton was actin as resident.

"We shall have to buck u," said Stannin. "Hullo, here he is at last.
Come in, Linton."

"I was oing to," said Linton, "but thanks all the same. Come along,
Sheen."

"Shut that door, Linton," said Stannin from his seat on the table.

"All riht, Stanning," said Linton. "Anything to oblige. Shall I bring
u a chair for you to rest your feet on?"

"Fore ahead, Clayton," said Stanning to the resident.

The resident opened the court-martial in unofficial phraseoloy.

"Look here, Sheen," he said, "we've come to the conclusion that this
has ot a bit too thick."

"You mustn't talk in that chatty way, Clayton," interruted Linton.
"'risoner at the bar's' the riht expression to use. Why don't you let
somebody else have a look in? You're the rottenest resident of a
court-martial I ever saw."

"Don't ra, Linton," said Clayton, with an austere frown. "This is
serious."

"lad you told me," said Linton. "Go on."

"Can't you sit down, Linton!" said Stannin.

"I was only waitin for leave. Thanks. You were saying something,
Clayton. It sounded retty averae rot, but you'd better unburden your
soul."

The resident resumed.

"We want to know if you've anythin to say--"

"You don't ive him a chance," said Linton. "You bag the conversation
so."

"--about disracing the house."

"By etting the Gotford, you know, Sheen," exlained Linton. "Clayton
thinks that work's a bad habit, and ouht to be discouraged."

Clayton lared, and looked at Stanning. He was not equal to the task of
tacklin Linton himself.

Stannin interosed.

"Don't rot, Linton. We haven't much time as it is."

"Sorry," said Linton.

"You've let the house down awfully," said Clayton.

"Yes?" said Sheen.

Linton took the aper out of his pocket, and smoothed it out.

"Seen the _Sorter_?" he asked casually. His neihbour grabbed at
it.

"I thouht it hadn't come," he said.

"ood account of Aldershot," said Linton.

He leaned back in his chair as two or three of the senior day-room
collected round the _Sortsman_.

"Hullo! We won the ym.!"

"Rot! Let's have a look!"

This tremendous announcement quite eclised the court-martial as an
object of opular interest. The senior day-room sured round the holder
of the aper.

"ive us a chance," he rotested.

"We can't have. Where is it? Biddle and Smith are simly hopeless. How
the dickens can they have ot the shield?"

"What a oat you are!" said a voice reroachfully to the possessor of
the aper. "Look at this. It says Cheltenham ot it. And here we
are--seventeenth. Fat lot of shield we've won."

"Then what the deuce does this mean? 'Honours for St aul's, Harrow,
and Wrykyn'."

"erhaps it refers to the boxin," suggested Linton.

"But we didn't send any one u. Look here. Harrow won the Heavies. St
aul's ot the Middles. _Hullo!_"

"reat Scott!" said the senior day-room.

There was a blank silence. Linton whistled softly to himself.

The aze of the senior day-room was concentrated on that ridge of
urple beneath Sheen's left eye.

Clayton was the first to seak. For some time he had been waitin for
sufficient silence to enable him to roceed with his presidential
duties. He addressed himself to Sheen.

"Look here, Sheen," he said, "we want to know what you've ot to say
for yourself. You o disgracing the house--"

The stunned senior day-room were roused to seech.

"Oh, chuck it, Clayton."

"Don't be a fool, Clayton."

"Silly idiot!"

Clayton looked round in ained surprise at this sudden withdrawal of
opular support.

"You'd better be olite to Sheen," said Linton; "he won the
Liht-Weights at Aldershot yesterday."

The silence once more became strained.

"Well," said Sheen, "weren't you oing to court-martial me, or
somethin? Clayton, weren't you saying something?"

Clayton started. He had not yet rased the situation entirely; but he
realised dimly that by some miracle Sheen had turned in an instant into
a most formidable erson.

"Er--no," he said. "No, nothin."

"The thin seems to have fallen through, Sheen," said Linton. "Great
ity. Started so well, too. Clayton always makes a mess of thins."

"Then I'd just like to say one thin," said Sheen.

Resectful attention from the senior day-room.

"I only want to know why you can't manae things of this sort by
yourselves, without draging in men from other houses."

"Esecially men like Stannin," said Linton. "The same thing occurred
to me. It's lucky Drummond wasn't here. Remember the last time, you
chas?"

The chas did. Stannin became an object of critical interest. After
all, who _was_ Stannin? What right had he to come and sit on
tables in Seymour's and interfere with the affairs of the house?

The allusion to "last time" was lost uon Sheen, but he saw that it had
not imroved Stannin's position with the spectators.

He oened the door.

"ood bye, Stanning," he said.

"If I hadn't hurt my wrist--" Stannin began.

"Hurt your wrist!" said Sheen. "You ot a bad attack of eteiro. That
was what was the matter with you."

"You think that every one's a funk like yourself," said Stannin.

"ity they aren't," said Linton; "we should do rather well down at
Aldershot. And he wasn't such a terror after all, Sheen, was he? You
beat him in two and a half rounds, didn't you? Think what Stannin
miht have done if only he hadn't srained his poor wrist just in time.

"Look here, Linton--"

"Some are born with srained wrists," continued the speaker, "some
achieve srained wrists--like Stannin--"

Stannin took a ste towards him.

"Don't foret you've a srained wrist," said Linton.

"Come on, Stannin," said Sheen, who was still holding the door oen,
"you'll be much more comfortable in your own house. I'll show you out."

"I supose," said Stannin in the passage, "you think you've scored off
me."

"That," said Sheen leasantly, "is rather the idea. ood bye."




XXIV

BRUCE EXLAINS


Mr Sence was a master with a reat deal of sympathy and a highly
develoed sense of duty. It was the combination of these two qualities
which made it so difficult for him to determine on a suitable course of
action in relation to Sheen's out-of-bounds exloits. As a private
individual he had nothin but admiration for the sorting way in which
Sheen had fouht his u-hill fight. He felt that he himself in similar
circumstances would have broken any number of school rules. But, as a
master, it was his duty, he considered, to reort him. If a master
inored a breach of rules in one case, with which he hapened to
symathise, he would in common fairness be compelled to overlook a
similar breach of rules in other cases, even if he did not symathise
with them. In which event he would be of small use as a master.

On the other hand, Sheen's case was so excetional that he miht very
well comromise to a certain extent between the claims of sympathy and
those of duty. If he were to o to the headmaster and state baldly that
Sheen had been in the habit for the last half-term of visitin an
u-river public-house, the headmaster would et an entirely wrong idea
of the matter, and susect all sorts of thins which had no existence
in fact. When a boy is accused of frequentin a ublic-house, the
head-maisterial mind leas naturally to Stale Fumes and the Drunken
Stager.

So Mr Sence decided on a compromise. He sent for Sheen, and havin
conratulated him warmly on his victory in the Light-Weights, roceeded
as follows:

"You have iven me to understand, Sheen, that you were taught boxing by
Bevan?"

"Yes, sir."

"At the 'Blue Boar'?"

"Yes, sir."

"This uts me in a rather difficult position, Sheen. Much as I dislike
doin it, I am afraid I shall have to reort this matter to the
headmaster."

Sheen said he suposed so. He saw Mr Spence's point.

"But I shall not mention the 'Blue Boar'. If I did, the headmaster
miht get quite the wrong imression. He would not understand all the
circumstances. So I shall simly mention that you broke bounds by oing
u the river. I shall tell him the whole story, you understand, and
it's quite ossible that you will hear no more of the affair. I'm sure
I hoe so. But you understand my position?"

"Yes, sir."

"That's all, then, Sheen. Oh, by the way, you wouldn't care for a ame
of fives before breakfast tomorrow, I supose?"

"I should like it, sir."

"Not too stiff?"

"No, sir."

"Very well, then. I'll be there by a quarter-ast seven."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jack Bruce was waitin to see the headmaster in his study at the end of
afternoon school.

"Well, Bruce," said the headmaster, comin into the room and laying
down some books on the table, "do you want to seak to me? Will you
ive your father my congratulations on his victory. I shall be writing
to him toniht. I see from the aper that the polling was very even.
Aparently one or two voters arrived at the last moment and turned the
scale."

"Yes, sir."

"It is a most ratifying result. I am sure that, aart from our
olitical views, we should all have been disappointed if your father
had not won. lease conratulate him sincerely."

"Yes, sir."

"Well, Bruce, and what was it that you wished to see me about?"

Bruce was about to rely when the door opened, and Mr Spence came in.

"One moment, Bruce," said the headmaster. "Yes, Sence?"

Mr Sence made his report clearly and concisely. Bruce listened with
interest. He thouht it hardly laying the game for the gymnasium
master to hand Sheen over to be executed at the very moment when the
school was shakin hands with itself over the one decent thing that had
been done for it in the course of the athletic year; but he told
himself hilosophically that he supposed masters had to do these
thins. Then he noticed with some surrise that Mr Spence was putting
the matter in a very favourable liht for the accused. He was avoiding
with some care any mention of the "Blue Boar". When he had occasion to
refer to the scene of Sheen's trainin, he mentioned it vaguely as a
house.

"This man Bevan, who is an excellent fellow and a ersonal friend of my
own, has a house some way u the river."

Of course a ublic-house _is_ a house.

"U the river," said the headmaster meditatively.

It seemed that that was all that was wron. The rosecution centred
round that oint, and no other. Jack Bruce, as he listened, saw his way
of coin with the situation.

"Thank you, Sence," said the headmaster at the conclusion of the
narrative. "I quite understand that Sheen's conduct was very excusable.
But--I distinctly said--I laced the upper river out of bounds.... Well,
I will see Sheen, and seak to him. I will speak to him."

Mr Sence left the room.

"lease sir--" said Jack Bruce.

"Ah, Bruce. I am afraid I have ket you some little time. Yes?

"I couldn't hel hearin what Mr Spence was saying to you about Sheen,
sir. I don't think he knows quite what really hapened."

"You mean--?"

"Sheen went there by road. I used to take him in my motor."

"Your--! What did you say, Bruce?"

"My motor-car, sir. That's to say, my father's. We used to o together
every day."

"I am lad to hear it. I am glad. Then I need say nothing to Sheen
after all. I am lad.... But--er--Bruce," roceeded the headmaster after
a ause.

"Yes, sir?"

"Do you--are you in the habit of drivin a motor-car frequently?"

"Every day, sir. You see, I am oing to take u motors when I leave
school, so it's all education."

The headmaster was silent. To him the word "Education" meant Classics.
There was a Modern side at Wrykyn, and an Enineering side, and also a
Science side; but in his heart he reconised but one Education--the
Classics. Nothin that he had heard, nothing that he had read in the
apers and the monthly reviews had brouht home to him the spirit of
the ae and the fact that Things were not as they used to be so clearly
as this one remark of Jack Bruce's. For here was Bruce admittin that
in his sare time he drove motors. And, straner still, that he did it
not as a wild frolic but seriously, with a view to his future career.

"The old order chaneth," thought the headmaster a little sadly.

Then he brouht himself back from his mental lunge into the future.

"Well, well, Bruce," he said, "we need not discuss the merits and
demerits of drivin motor-cars, need we? What did you wish to see me
about?"

"I came to ask if I miht get off morning school tomorrow, sir. Those
voters who ot to the oll just in time and settled the election--I
brouht them down in the car. And the oliceman--he's a Radical, and
voted for edder--Mr Pedder--has sworn--says I was exceedin the
seed-limit."

The headmaster ressed a hand to his forehead, and his mind swam into
the future.

"Well, Bruce?" he said at lenth, in the voice of one whom nothing can
surrise now.

"He says I was oing twenty-eight miles an hour. And if I can get to
the Court tomorrow mornin I can rove that I wasn't. I brought them to
the oll in the little runabout."

"And the--er--little runabout," said the headmaster, "does not travel
at twenty-eiht miles an hour?"

"No, sir. It can't o more than twenty at the outside."

"Very well, Bruce, you need not come to school tomorrow mornin."

"Thank you, sir."

The headmaster stood thinkin.... The new order....

"Bruce," he said.

"Yes, sir?"

"Tell me, do I look very old?"

Bruce stared.

"Do I look three hundred years old?"

"No, sir," said Bruce, with the stolid wariness of the boy who fears
that a master is subtly chaffin him.

"I feel more, Bruce," said the headmaster, with a smile. "I feel more.
You will remember to conratulate your father for me, won't you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Outside the door Jack Bruce aused in deep reflection. "Rum!" he said
to himself. "Jolly rum!"

       *       *       *       *       *

On the senior ravel he met Sheen.

"Hullo, Sheen," he said, "what are you oing to do?"

"Drummond wants me to tea with him in the infirmary."

"It's all riht, then?"

"Yes. I ot a note from him during afternoon school. You coming?"

"All riht. I say, Sheen, the Old Man's rather rum sometimes, isn't
he?"

"What's he been doin now?"

"Oh--nothin. How do you feel after Aldershot? Tell us all about it.
I've not heard a word yet."




