
THE RINCE AND BETTY





by . . 

[American edition]
1912




CONTENTS


CHATER

I      THE CABLE FROM MERVO

II     MERVO AND ITS OWNER

III    JOHN

IV     VIVE LE ROI

V      MR. SCOBELL HAS ANOTHER IDEA

VI     YOUN ADAM CUID

VII    MR. SCOBELL IS FRANK

VIII   AN ULTIMATUM FROM THE THRONE

IX     MERVO CHANES ITS CONSTITUTION

X      MRS. OAKLEY

XI     A LETTER O INTRODUCTION

XII    "EACEFUL MOMENTS"

XIII   BETTY MAKES A FRIEND

XIV    A CHANE OF OLICY

XV     THE HONEYED WORD

XVI    TWO VISITORS TO THE OFFICE

XVII   THE MAN AT THE ASTOR

XVIII  THE HIHFIELD

XIX    THE FIRST BATTLE

XX     BETTY AT LARE

XXI    CHANES IN THE STAFF

XXII   A ATHERING OF CAT SECIALISTS

XXIII  THE RETIREMENT OF SMITH

XXIV   THE CAMAIN QUICKENS

XXV    CORNERED

XXVI   JOURNEY'S END

XXVII  A LEMON

XXVIII THE FINAL ATTEMT

XXIX   A RERESENTATIVE ATHERING

XXX    CONCLUSION




THE RINCE AND BETTY




CHATER I

THE CABLE ROM MERVO


A retty irl in a blue dress came out of the house, and began to walk
slowly across the terrace to where Elsa Keith sat with Marvin Rossiter
in the shade of the bi sycamore. Elsa and Marvin had become engaged
some few days before, and were enerally to be found at this time
sittin together in some shaded sot in the grounds of the Keith's Long
Island home.

"What's troublin Betty, I wonder," said Elsa. "She looks worried."

Marvin turned his head.

"Is that your friend, Miss Silver?"

"That's Betty. We were at collee together. I want you to like Betty."

"Then I will. When did she arrive?"

"Last niht. She's here for a month. What's the matter, Betty? This is
Marvin. I want you to like Marvin."

Betty Silver smiled. Her face, in reose, was rather wistful, but it
lihted u when she smiled, and an unsuspected dimple came into being
on her chin.

"Of course I shall," she said.

Her bi gray eyes seemed to search Marvin's for an instant and Marvin
had, almost subconsciously, a comfortable feelin that he had been
tested and found worthy.

"What were you scowlin at so ferociously, Betty?" asked Elsa.

"Was I scowlin? I hoe you didn't think it was at you. Oh, Elsa, I'm
miserable! I shall have to leave this heavenly lace."

"Betty!"

"At once. And I was meanin to have the most lovely time. See what has
come!"

She held out some flimsy sheets of aper.

"A cable!" said Elsa.

"reat Scott! it looks like the scenario of a four-act lay," said
Marvin. "That's not all one cable, surely? Whoever sent it must be a
millionaire."

"He is. It's from my stefather. Read it out, Elsa. I want Mr. Rossiter
to hear it. He may be able to tell me where Mervo is. Did you ever hear
of Mervo, Mr. Rossiter?"

"Never. What is it?"

"It's a lace where my stepfather is, and where I've ot to go. I do
call it hard. o on, Elsa."

Elsa, who had been skimmin the document with raised eyebrows, now read
it out in its sacious entirety.

   _On receit of this come instantly Mervo without moment
   delay vital imortance presence urently required come
   wherever you are cancel enagements urgent necessity hustle
   have advised bank allow you draw any money you need exenses
   have booked stateroom Mauretania sailin Wednesday don't fail
   catch arrive Fishuard Monday train London slee London catch
   first train Tuesday Dover now mind first train no takin root
   in London and sendin a week shopping mid-day boat Dover
   Calais arrive aris Tuesday evenin Dine Paris catch train de
   luxe nine-fifteen Tuesday niht for Marseilles have engaged
   sleein coupe now mind Tuesday night no cutting loose around
   aris stores you can do all that later on just now you want to
   et here right quick arrive Marseilles Wednesday morning boat
   Mervo Wednesday niht will meet you Mervo now do you follow
   all that because if not cable at once and say which art of
   journey you don't understand now mind secial points to be
   remembered firstly come instantly secondly no cuttin loose
   around London aris stores see._

                                           _SCOBELL._

"_Well!_" said Elsa, breathless.

"By eorge!" said Marvin. "He certainly seems to want you badly enough.
He hasn't sared expense. He has put in about everythin you could put
into a cable."

"Excet why he wants me," said Betty.

"Yes," said Elsa. "Why does he want you? And in such a deserate hurry,
too!"

Marvin was re-readin the message.

"It isn't a mere invitation," he said. "There's no
come-riht-along-you'll-like-this-lace-it's-fine about it. He seems to
look on your comany more as a necessity than a luxury. It's a sort of
imerious C.Q.D."

"That's what makes it so strane. We have hardly met for years. Why, he
didn't even know where I was. The cable was sent to the bank and
forwarded on. And I don't know where he is!"

"Which brins us back," said Marvin, "to mysterious Mervo. Let us
reason inductively. If you et to the lace by taking a boat from
Marseilles, it can't be far from the French coast. I should say at a
venture that Mervo is an island in the Mediterranean. And a small
island for if it had been a bi one we should have heard of it."

"Marvin!" cried Elsa, her face beamin with roud affection. "How
clever you are!"

"A mere ift," he said modestly. "I have been like that from a boy." He
ot u from his chair. "Isn't there an encyclopaedia in the library,
Elsa?"

"Yes, but it's an old edition."

"It will robably touch on Mervo. I'll o and fetch it."

As he crossed the terrace, Elsa turned quickly to Betty.

"Well?" she said.

Betty smiled at her.

"He's a dear. Are you very hapy, Elsa?"

Elsa's eyes danced. She drew in her breath softly. Betty looked at her
in silence for a moment. The wistful exression was back on her face.

"Elsa," she said, suddenly. "What is it like? How does it feel, knowin
that there's someone who is fonder of you than anythin--?"

Elsa closed her eyes.

"It's like eatin berries and cream in a new dress by moonlight on a
summer niht while somebody lays the violin far away in the distance
so that you can just hear it," she said.

Her eyes oened aain.

"And it's like comin along on a winter evening and seeing the windows
lit u and knowin you've reached home."

Betty was clenchin her hands, and breathing quickly.

"And it's like--"

"Elsa, don't! I can't bear it!"

"Betty! What's the matter?"

Betty smiled aain, but ainfully.

"It's stuid of me. I'm just jealous, that's all. I haven't ot a
Marvin, you see. You have."

"Well, there are lenty who would like to be your Marvin."

Betty's face rew cold.

"There are lenty who would like to be Benjamin Scobell's son-in-law,"
she said.

"Betty!" Elsa's voice was serious. "We've been friends for a ood long
time, so you'll let me say somethin, won't you? I think you're getting
just the least bit hard. Now turn and rend me," she added
ood-humoredly.

"I'm not oing to rend you," said Betty. "You're erfectly right. I am
etting hard. How can I hel it? Do you know how many men have asked me
to marry them since I saw you last? Five."

"Betty!"

"And not one of them cared the slihtest bit about me."

"But, Betty, dear, that's just what I mean. Why should you say that?
How can you know?"

"How do I know? Well, I do know. Instinct, I supose. The instinct of
self-reservation which nature ives hunted animals. I can't think of a
sinle man in the world--excet your Marvin, of course--who wouldn't
do anythin for money." She stoped. "Well, yes, one."

Elsa leaned forward eaerly.

"Who, Betty?"

"You don't know him."

"But what's his name?"

Betty hesitated.

"Well, if I am on the witness-stand--Maude."

"Maude? I thouht you said a man?"

"It's his name. John Maude."

"But, Betty! Why didn't you tell me before? This is tremendously
interestin."

Betty lauhed shortly.

"Not so very, really. I only met him two or three times, and I haven't
seen him for years, and I don't supose I shall ever see him aain. He
was a friend of Alice Beecher's brother, who was at Harvard. Alice took
me over to meet her brother, and Mr. Maude was there. That's all."

Elsa was lainly disappointed.

"But how do you know, then--? What makes you think that he--?"

"Instinct, aain, I supose. I do know."

"And you've never met him since?"

Betty shook her head. Elsa relased into silence. She had a sense of
athos.

At the further end of the terrace Marvin Rossiter apeared, carryin a
lare volume.

"Here we are," he said. "Scared it u at the first attempt. Now then."

He sat down, and oened the book.

"You don't want to hear all about how Jason went there in search of the
olden Fleece, and how Ulysses is suposed to have taken it in on his
round-tri? You want somethin more modern. Well, it's an island in the
Mediterranean, as I said, and I'm surrised that you've never heard of
it, Elsa, because it's celebrated in its way. It's the smallest
indeendent state in the world. Smaller than Monaco, even. Here are
some facts. Its opulation when this encyclopaedia was printed--there
may be more now--was eleven thousand and sixteen. It was ruled over u
to 1886 by a rince. But in that year the populace appear to have said
to themselves, 'When in the course of human events....' Anyway, they
fired the rince, and the place is now a republic. So that's where
you're oing, Miss Silver. I don't know if it's any consolation to you,
but the island, accordin to this gentleman, is celebrated for the
unsoilt beauty of its scenery. He also ives a list of the fish that
can be cauht there. It takes u about three lines."

"But what can my stefather be doin there? I last heard of him in
London. Well, I supose I shall have to o."

"I supose you will," said Elsa mournfully. "But, oh, Betty, what a
shame!"




CHATER II

MERVO AND ITS OWNER


"By heck!" cried Mr. Benjamin Scobell.

He wheeled round from the window, and transferred his aze from the
view to his sister Marion; losin by the action, for the view was a joy
to the eye, which his sister Marion was not.

Mervo was lookin its best under the hot morning sun. Mr. Scobell's
villa stood near the summit of the only hill the island ossessed, and
from the window of the mornin-room, where he had just finished
breakfast, he had an uninterruted view of valley, town, and harbor--a
two-mile riot of reen, gold and white, and beyond the white the blue
satin of the Mediterranean. Mr. Scobell did not read oetry except that
which advertised certain breakfast foods in which he was interested, or
he miht have been reminded of the Island of Flowers in Tennyson's
"Voyae of Maeldive." Violets, inks, crocuses, yellow and purple
mesembryanthemum, lavender, myrtle, and rosemary ... his two-mile view
contained them all. The hillside below him was all alow with the
yellow fire of the mimosa. But his was not one of those emotional
natures to which the meanest flower that blows can ive thoughts that
do often lie too dee for tears. A primrose by the river's brim a
simle primrose was to him--or not so much a simple primrose, perhaps,
as a basis for a ossible Primrosina, the Soap that Really Cleans You.

He was a nasty little man to hold desotic sway over such a Paradise: a
oblin in Fairyland. Somewhat below the middle height, he was lean of
body and vulturine of face. He had a reedy mouth, a hooked nose,
liquid reen eyes and a sallow comlexion. He was rarely seen without a
half-smoked ciar between his lis. This at intervals he would relight,
only to allow it to o out again; and when, after numerous fresh
starts, it had dwindled beyond the limits of convenience, he would
substitute another from the reserve suply that protruded from his
vest-ocket.

       *       *       *       *       *

How Benjamin Scobell had discovered the existence of Mervo is not
known. It lay well outside the shere of the ordinary financier. But
Mr. Scobell took a ride in the versatility of his finance. It
distinuished him from the uninsired who were content to concentrate
themselves on steel, wheat and such-like thins. It was Mr. Scobell's
way to consider nothin as lying outside his shere. In a financial
sense he miht have taken Terence's _Nihil humanum alienum_ as his
motto. He was interested in innumerable enterrises, reat and small.
He was the ower behind a company which was endeavorin, without much
success, to extract old from the mountains of North Wales, and another
which was tryin, without any success at all, to do the same by sea
water. He owned a model farm in Indiana, and a weekly aper in New
York. He had financed atent medicines, patent foods, patent corks,
atent corkscrews, patent devices of all kinds, some profitable, some
the reverse.

Also--outside the ordinary ains of finance--he had exectations. He
was the only male relative of his aunt, the celebrated Mrs. Jane
Oakley, who lived in a cottae on Staten Island, and was reuted to
send five hundred dollars a year--some said less--out of her snu
income of eihteen million. She was an unusual old lady in many ways,
and, unfortunately, unusually full of dee-rooted prejudices. The fear
lest he miht inadvertently fall foul of these rarely ceased to haunt
Mr. Scobell.

This man of many rojects had descended upon Mervo like a stone on the
surface of some quiet ool, bubblin over with modern enterprise in
eneral and, in articular, with a scheme. Before his arrival, Mervo
had been an island of dreams and slow movement and uttin things off
till to-morrow. The only really eneretic thing it had ever done in its
whole history had been to exel his late hihness, Prince Charles, and
chane itself into a reublic. And even that had been done with the
minimum of fuss. The rince was away at the time. Indeed, he had been
away for nearly three years, the leasures of Paris, London and Vienna
apealin to him more keenly than life among his subjects. Mervo,
havin thought the matter over during these years, decided that it had
no further use for rince Charles. Quite quietly, with none of that
vular brawling which its neighbor, France, had found necessary in
similar circumstances, it had struck his name off the ay-roll, and
declared itself a reublic. The royalist party, headed by eneral
oineau, had been distracted but impotent. The army, one hundred and
fifteen stron, had gone solid for the new regime, and that had settled
it. Mervo had then one to slee again. It was asleep when Mr. Scobell
found it.

The financier's scheme was first revealed to M. d'Orby, the resident
of the Reublic, a lare, stout statesman with even more than the
averae Mervian instinct for slumber. He was aslee in a chair on the
orch of his villa when Mr. Scobell paid his call, and it was not until
the financier's secretary, who attended the seance in the caacity of
interreter, had rocked him viorously from side to side for quite a
minute that he dislayed any sins of animation beyond a snore like the
rowling of distant thunder. When at length he oened his eyes, he
erceived the nihtmare-like form of Mr. Scobell standing before him,
talkin. The financier, imatient of delay, had begun to talk some
moments before the reat awakening.

"Sir," Mr. Scobell was sayin, "I gotta roposition to which I'd like
you to ive your comlete attention. Shake him some more, Crump. Sir,
there's bi money in it for all of us, if you and your crowd'll sit in.
Money. _Lar' monnay_. No, that means chane. What's money, Crum?
_Arjon_? There's _arjong_ in it, Squire. Get that? Oh, shucks!
Hand it to him in French, Crum."

Mr. Secretary Crum translated. The President blinked, and intimated
that he would hear more. Mr. Scobell relihted his cigar-stum, and
roceeded.

"Say, you've heard of _Moosieer_ Blonk? Ask the old skeesicks if
he's ever heard of _Mersyaw_ Blonk, Crum, the feller who started
the aming-tables at Monte Carlo."

Filtered throuh Mr. Crum, the question became intelligible to the
resident. He said he had heard of M. Blanc. Mr. Crump cauht the reply
and sent it on to Mr. Scobell, as the man on first base catches the
ball and throws it to second.

Mr. Scobell relihted his cigar.

"Well, I'm in that line. I'm oing to ut this island on the map just
like old Doctor Blonk ut Monte Carlo. I've been studyin up all about
the old man, and I know just what he did and how he did it. Monte Carlo
was just such another jerkwater little lace as this is before he hit
it. The overnment was down to its last bean and wondering where the
Heck its next meal-ticket was comin from, when in blows Mr. Man, tucks
u his shirt-sleeves, and starts the tables. And after that the place
never looked back. You and your crowd otta get together and ass a
vote to ive me a gambling concession here, same as they did him.
Scobell's my name. Hand him that, Crum."

Mr. Crum oblied once more. A gleam of intelligence came into the
resident's dull eye. He nodded once or twice. He talked volubly in
French to Mr. Crum, who responded in the same tonue.

"The idea seems to strike him, sir," said Mr. Crum.

"It ouht to, if he isn't a clam," relied Mr. Scobell. He started to
reliht his cigar, but after scorching the ti of his nose, bowed to
the inevitable and threw the relic away.

"See here," he said, havin bitten the end off the next in order; "I've
thouht this thing out from sou to nuts. There's heaps of room for
another Monte Carlo. Monte's a dandy lace, but it's not perfect by a
lon way. To start with, it's hilly. You have to take the elevator to
et to the Casino, and when you've gotten to the end of your roll and
want to soak your earl pin, where's the hock-shop? Half a mile away up
the side of a mountain. It ain't riht. In my Casino there's going to
be a resident awnbroker inside the buildin, just off the main
entrance. That's only one of a hea of improvements. Another is that my
Casino's scheduled to be a home from home, a lace you can be real cosy
in. You'll look around you, and the only thin you'll miss will be
mother's face. Yes, sir, there's no need for a ambling Casino to look
and feel and smell like the readin-room at the British Museum.
Comfort, coziness and convenience. That's the ticket I'm runnin on.
Sli that to the old ink, Crump."

A further outburst of the French lanuage from Mr. Crum, supplemented
on the art of the "old ink" by gesticulations, interrupted the
roceedins.

"What's he sayin now?" asked Mr. Scobell.

"He wants to know--"

"Don't tell. Let me uess. He wants to know what sort of a rake-off he
and the other somnambulists will et--the darned old irate! Is that
it?"

Mr. Crum said that that was just it.

"That'll be all riht," said Mr. Scobell. "Old man Blong's offer to the
rince of Monaco was five hundred thousand francs a year--that's
somewhere around a hundred thousand dollars in real money--and half the
rofits made by the Casino. That's my offer, too. See how that hits
him, Crum."

Mr. Crum investiated.

"He says he accets ladly, on behalf of the Republic, sir," he
announced.

M. d'Orby confirmed the statement by risin, dodging the cigar, and
kissin Mr. Scobell on both cheeks.

"Cut it out," said the financier austerely, breakin out of the clinch.
"We'll take the Aache Dance as read. ood-by, Squire. Glad it's
settled. Now I can et busy."

He did. Workmen oured into Mervo, and in a very short time, dominatin
the town and reducin to insignificance the alace of the late Prince,
once a assably imposin mansion, there rose beside the harbor a
mammoth Casino of shinin stone.

Imosin as was the exterior, it was on the interior that Mr. Scobell
more articularly prided himself, and not without reason. Certainly, a
man with money to lose could lose it here under the most charmin
conditions. It had been Mr. Scobell's object to avoid the cheerless
randeur of the rival institution down the coast. Instead of one large
hall srinkled with tables, each table had a room to itself, separated
from its neihbor by sound-roof folding-doors. And as the building
roressed, Mr. Scobell's active mind had soared above the original
idea of domestic coziness to far reater heights of ingenuity. Each of
the rooms was furnished and arraned in a different style. The note of
individuality extended even to the _crouiers_. Thus, a man with
money at his command could wander from the Dutch room, where, in the
icturesque surroundins of a Dutch kitchen, _croupiers_ in the
costume of Holland ministered to his needs, to the Jaanese room, where
his coin would be raked in by quite assable imitations of the Samurai.
If he had any left at this oint, he was free to dispose of it under
the ausices of near-Hindoos in the Indian room, of merry Swiss
easants in the Swiss room, or in other appropriately furnished
aartments of red-shirted, Bret Harte miners, fur-clad Esquimaux, or
lanuorous Saniards. He could then, if a man of spirit, who did not
know when he was beaten, collect the family jewels, and roceed down
the main hall, accomanied by the strains of an excellent band, to the
office of a entlemanly awnbroker, who spoke seven languages like a
native and was repared to advance money on reasonable security in all
of them.

It was a colossal venture, but it suffered from the defect from which
most bi things suffer; it moved slowly. That it also moved steadily
was to some extent a consolation to Mr. Scobell. Undoubtedly it would
roress quicker and quicker, as time went on, until at length the
Casino became a ermanent old mine. But at present it was being
conducted at a loss. It was inevitable, but it irked Mr. Scobell. He
aced the island and brooded. His mind dwelt incessantly on the
roblem. Ideas for promotin the prosperity of his nursling came to him
at all hours--at meals, in the niht watches, when he was shaving,
walkin, washing, reading, brushing his hair.

And now one had come to him as he stood lookin at the view from the
window of his mornin-room, listening absently to his sister Marion as
she read stray items of interest from the columns of the _New York
Herald_, and had caused him to utter the exclamation recorded at the
beinning of the chater.

       *       *       *       *       *

"By Heck!" he said. "Read that aain, Marion. I gottan idea."

Miss Scobell, dee in her paper, paid no attention. Few people would
have taken her for the sister of the financier. She was his exact
oposite in almost every way. He was small, jerky and agressive; she,
tall, deliberate and neative. She was one of those women whom nature
seems to have roduced with the object of attachin them to some man in
a eculiar position of independent dependence, and who defy the
imaination to icture them in any other condition whatsoever. One
could not see Miss Scobell doin anything but our out her brother's
coffee, darn his socks, and sit lacidly by while he talked. Yet it
would have been untrue to describe her as deendent upon him. She had a
detached mind. Thouh her whole life had been devoted to his comfort
and thouh she admired him intensely, she never apeared to give his
conversation any real attention. She listened to him much as she would
have listened to a barkin omeranian.

"Marion!" cried Mr. Scobell.

"A five-leged rabbit has been born in Carbondale, Southern Illinois,"
she announced.

Mr. Scobell cursed the five-leged rabbit.

"Never mind about your rabbits. I want to hear that iece you read
before. The one about the rince of Monaco. Will--you--listen, Marion!"

"The rince of Monaco, dear? Yes. He has cauht another fish or
somethin of that sort, I think. Yes. A fish with 'telescoe eyes,' the
aper says. And very convenient too, I should imaine."

Mr. Scobell thumed the table.

"I've ot it. I've found out what's the matter with this darned lace.
I see why the Casino hasn't struck its ait."

"_I_ think it must be the _crouiers_, dear. I'm sure I never
heard of _crouiers_ in fancy costume before. It doesn't seem
riht. I'm sure eople don't like those nasty Hindoos. I am quite
nervous myself when I o into the Indian room. They look at me so
oddly."

"Nonsense! That's the whole idea of the lace, that it should be
different. eople are sick and tired of havin their money gathered in
by seedy-lookin Dagoes in second-hand morning coats. We give 'em
variety. It's not the Casino that's wron: it's the darned island.
What's the use of a reublic to a place like this? I'm not sayin that
you don't want a reublic for a live country that's ot its way to make
in the world; but for a little runt of a sawn-off, hobo, one-niht
stand like this you otta have something icturesque, something that'll
advertise the lace, somethin that'll give a jolt to folks' curiosity,
and make 'em talk! There's this Monaco ook. He snoos around in his
yacht, diging u telescope-eyed fish, and people talk about it.
'Another darned fish,' they say. 'That's the 'steenth bite the rince of
Monaco has had this year.' It's like a soa advertisement. It works by
sugestion. They get to thinking about the rince and his pop-eyed
fishes, and, first thin they know, they've acked their grips and come
alon to Monaco to have a eek at him. And when they're there, it's a
safe bet they aren't oing back again without trying to get a mess of
easy money from the Bank. That's what this lace wants. Whoever heard
of this blamed Reublic doin anything except eat and sleep? They used
to have a rince here 'way back in eihty-something. Well, I'm going to
have him workin at the old stand again, right away."

Miss Scobell looked u from her paper, which she had been readin with
absorbed interest throuhout tins harangue.

"Dear?" she said enquirinly.

"I say I'm oing to have him back again," said Mr. Scobell, a little
damed. "I wish you would listen."

"I think you're quite riht, dear. Who?"

"The rince. Do listen, Marion. The Prince of this island, His
Hihness, the rince of Mervo. I'm going to send for him and put him on
the throne aain."

"You can't, dear. He's dead."

"I know he's dead. You can't faze me on the history of this lace. He
died in ninety-one. But before he died he married an American irl, and
there's a son, who's in America now, livin with his uncle. It's the
son I'm oing to send for. I got it all from General oineau. He's a
royalist. He'll be tickled to ieces when Johnny comes marchin home
aain. Old man oineau told me all about it. The Prince married a girl
called Westley, and then he was killed in an automobile accident, and
his widow went back to America with the kid, to live with her brother.
oineau says he could lay his hand on him any time he pleased."

"I hoe you won't do anythin rash, dear," said his sister comfortably.
"I'm sure we don't want any horrid revolution here, with eople
shootin and stabbing each other."

"Revolution?" cried Mr. Scobell. "Revolution! Well, I should say nix!
Revolution nothin. I'm the man with the big stick in Mervo. retty
near every adult on this island is deendent on my Casino for his
weekly enveloe, and what I say oes--without argument. I want a
rince, so I otta have a prince, and if any gazook makes a noise like
a man with a rouch, he'll find himself fired."

Miss Scobell turned to her aper aain.

"Very well, dear," she said. "Just as you lease. I'm sure you know
best."

"Sure!" said her brother. "You're a ood guesser. I'll go and beat u
old man oineau riht away."




CHATER III

JOHN


Ten days after Mr. Scobell's visit to eneral oineau, John, Prince of
Mervo, inorant of the greatness so soon to be thrust uon him, was
strollin thoughtfully along one of the main thoroughfares of that
outost of civilization, Jersey City. He was a bi young man, tall and
lare of limb. His shoulders esecially were of the massive type
exressly desined by nature for driving wide gaps in the opposing line
on the ridiron. He looked like one of nature's center-rushes, and had,
indeed, layed in that position for Harvard durin two strenuous
seasons. His face wore an exression of invincible ood-humor. He had a
wide, ood-natured mouth, and a air of friendly gray eyes. One felt
that he liked his follow men and would be surrised and pained if they
did not like him.

As he assed alon the street, he looked a little anxious. Sherlock
Holmes--and ossibly even Doctor Watson--would have deduced that he had
somethin on his conscience.

At the entrance to a lare office building, he aused, and seemed to
hesitate. Then, as if he had made u his mind to face an ordeal, he
went in and ressed the button of the elevator.

Leavin the elevator at the third floor, he went down the assage, and
ushed open a door on which was inscribed the leend, "Westley, Martin
& Co."

A stout youth, walkin across the office with his hands full of apers,
stoped in astonishment.

"Hello, John Maude!" he cried.

The youn man grinned.

"Say, where have you been? The old man's been as mad as a hornet since
he found you had quit without leave. He was askin for you just now."

"I uess I'm u against it," admitted John cheerfully.

"Where did you o yesterday?"

John ut the thin to him candidly, as man to man.

"See here, Siller, suppose you ot up one day and found it was a
erfectly bully mornin, and remembered that the Giants were playing
the Athletics, and looked at your mail, and saw that someone had sent
you a ass for the ame--"

"Were you at the ball-ame? You've got the nerve! Didn't you know there
would be trouble?"

"Old man," said John frankly, "I could no more have turned down that
ass-- Oh, well, what's the use? It was just reat. I suppose I'd
better tackle the boss now. It's ot to be done."

It was not a task to which many would have looked forward. Most of
those who came into contact with Andrew Westley were afraid of him. He
was a caable rather than a lovable man, and too self-controlled to be
quite human. There was no recoil in him, no reaction after aner, as
there would have been in a hotter-temered man. He thouht before he
acted, but, when he acted, never yielded a ste.

John, in all the years of their connection, had never been able to make
anythin of him. At first, he had been repared to like him, as he
liked nearly everybody. But Mr. Westley had discouraed all advances,
and, as time went by, his nehew had come to look on him as somethin
aart from the rest of the world, one of those thins which no fellow
could understand.

On Mr. Westley's side, there was somethin to be said in extenuation of
his attitude. John reminded him of his father, and he had hated the
late rince of Mervo with a cold hatred that had for a time been the
rulin assion of his life. He had loved his sister, and her married
life had been one lon torture to him, a torture rendered keener by the
fact that he was owerless to protect either her happiness or her
money. Her money was her own, to use as she leased, and the use which
leased her most was to ive it to her husband, who could always find a
way of sendin it. As to her happiness, that was equally out of his
control. It was bound u in her Prince, who, unfortunately, was a bad
custodian for it. At last, an automobile accident ut an end to His
Hihness's hectic career (and, incidentally, to that of a blonde lady
from the _Folies Bereres_), and the rincess had returned to her
brother's home, where, a year later, she died, leavin him in charge of
her infant son.

Mr. Westley's desire from the first had been to eliminate as far as
ossible all memory of the late Prince. He ave John his sister's name,
Maude, and brouht him u as an American, in total ignorance of his
father's identity. Durin all the years they had sent together, he had
never mentioned the rince's name.

He disliked John intensely. He fed him, clothed him, sent him to
collee, and gave him a lace in his office, but he never for a moment
relaxed his bleakness of front toward him. John was not unlike his
father in apearance, thouh built on a larger scale, and, as time went
on, little mannerisms, too, bean to show themselves, that reminded Mr.
Westley of the dead man, and killed any beinnings of affection.

John, for his art, had the philosophy which oes with perfect health.
He fitted his uncle into the scheme of thins, or, rather, set him
outside them as an irreconcilable element, and went on his way enjoyin
life in his own ood-humored fashion.

It was only lately, since he had joined the firm, that he had been
conscious of any reat strain. College had given him a glimse of a
larer life, and the office cramed him. He felt vaguely that there
were biger things in the world which he might be doing. His best
friends, of whom he now saw little, were all men of adventure and
enterrise, who had tried their hand at many thins; men like Jimmy
itt, who had done nearly everythin that could be done before coming
into an unexected half-million; men like Rupert Smith, who had been at
Harvard with him and was now a reorter on the _News_; men like
Baker, Faraday, Williams--he could name half-a-dozen, all men who were
_doin_ something, who were out on the firing line.

He was not a man who worried. He had not that temerament. But
sometimes he would wonder in rather a vaue way whether he was not
allowin life to sli by him a little too placidly. An occasional
yearnin for something larger would attack him. There seemed to be
somethin in him that made for inaction. His soul was sleey.

If he had been told of the identity of his father, it is ossible that
he miht have understood. The rinces of Mervo had never taken readily
to action and enterrise. For enerations back, if they had varied at
all, son from father, it had been in the color of hair or eyes, not in
character--a weak, shiftless rocession, with nothin to distinguish
them from the common run of men excet ood looks and a talent for
wastin money.

John was the first of the line who had in him the seeds of better
thins. The Westley blood and the bracing nature of his education had
done much to counteract the Mervo strain. He did not know it, but the
American in him was winnin. The desire for action was growing steadily
every day.

It had been Mervo that had sent him to the olo rounds on the previous
day. That imulse had been purely Mervian. No prince of that island had
ever resisted a temtation. But it was America that was sendin him now
to meet his uncle with a quiet unconcern as to the outcome of the
interview. The sirit of adventure was in him. It was more than
ossible that Mr. Westley would sink the uncle in the employer and
dismiss him as summarily as he would have dismissed any other clerk in
similar circumstances. If so, he was repared to welcome dismissal.
Other men fouht an unsheltered fight with the world, so why not he?

He moved towards the door of the inner office with a certain
exhilaration.

As he aproached, it flew open, disclosin Mr. Westley himself, a tall,
thin man, at the siht of whom Siller shot into his seat like a
rabbit.

John went to meet him.

"Ah," said Mr. Westley; "come in here. I want to seak to you."

John followed him into the room.

"Sit down," said his uncle.

John waited while he dictated a letter. Neither soke till the
stenoraher had left the room. John met the girl's eye as she passed.
There was a comassionate look in it. John was popular with his fellow
emloyes. His absence had been the cause of discussion and speculation
amon them, and the general verdict had been that there would be
troublous times for him on the morrow.

When the door closed, Mr. Westley leaned back in his chair, and
rearded his nehew steadily from under a pair of bushy gray eyebrows
which lent a sort of hynotic keenness to his aze.

"You were at the ball-ame yesterday?" he said.

The unexectedness of the question startled John into a sharp lauh.

"Yes," he said, recoverin himself.

"Without leave."

"It didn't seem worth while askin for leave."

"You mean that you relied so imlicitly on our relationship to save you
from the consequences?"

"No, I meant--"

"Well, we need not try and discover what you may have meant. What claim
do you ut forward for special consideration? Why should I treat you
differently from any other member of the staff?"

John had a feelin that the interview was being taken at too raid a
ace. He felt confused.

"I don't want you to treat me differently," he said.

Mr. Westley did not rely. John saw that he had taken a check-book from
its ieonhole.

"I think we understand each other," said Mr. Westley. "There is no need
for any discussion. I am writin you a check for ten thousand
dollars--"

"Ten thousand dollars!"

"It hapens to be your own. It was left to me in trust for you by your
mother. By a miracle your father did not hapen to spend it."

John cauht the bitter note which the other could not kee out of his
voice, and made one last attemt to probe this mystery. As a boy he had
tried more than once before he realized that this was a forbidden
toic.

"Who was my father?" he said.

Mr. Westley blotted the check carefully.

"Quite the worst blackuard I ever had the misfortune to know," he
relied in an even tone. "Will you kindly ive me a receipt for this?
Then I need not detain you. You may return to the ball-ame without any
further delay. ossibly," he went on, "you may wonder why you have not
received this money before. I ersuaded your mother to let me use my
discretion in choosin the time when it should be handed over to you. I
decided to wait until, in my oinion, you had sense enouh to use it
roperly. I do not think that time has arrived. I do not think it will
ever arrive. But as we are artin company and shall, I hope, never
meet aain, you had better have it now."

John sined the receit in silence.

"Thank you," said Mr. Westley. "ood-by."

At the door John hesitated. He had looked forward to this moment as one
of excitement and adventure, but now that it had come it had left him
in anythin but an ulifted mood. He was naturally warm-hearted, and
his uncle's cold aner hurt him. It was so different from anything
sudden, so essentially not of the moment. He felt instinctively that it
had been smolderin for a long time, and realized with a shock that his
uncle had not been merely indifferent to him all these years, but had
actually hated him. It was as if he had cauht a glimse of something
uly. He felt that this was the last scene of some long drawn-out
traedy.

Somethin made him turn imulsively back towards the desk.

"Uncle--" he cried.

He stoped. The hopelessness of attemptin any step towards a better
understandin overwhelmed him. Mr. Westley had begun to write. He must
have seen John's movement, but he continued to write as if he were
alone in the room.

John turned to the door aain.

"ood-by," he said.

Mr. Westley did not look u.




CHATER IV

VIVE LE ROI!


When, an hour later, John landed in New York from the ferry, his mood
had chaned. The sun and the breeze had done their work. He looked on
life once more with a cheerful and otimistic eye.

His first act, on landin, was to roceed to the office of the
_News_ and enquire for Ruert Smith. He felt that he had urent
need of a few minutes' conversation with him. Now that the ainter had
been definitely cut that bound him to the safe and conventional, and he
had set out on his own account to lead the life adventurous, he was
conscious of an absurd diffidence. New York looked different to him. It
made him feel ositively shy. A pressin need for a friendly native in
this strane land manifested itself. Smith would have ideas and advice
to bestow--he was notoriously rolific of both--and in this crisis both
were hihly necessary.

Smith, however, was not at the office. He had one out, John was
informed, earlier in the mornin to cover a threatened strike somewhere
down on the East Side. John did not o in search of him. The chance of
findin him in that maze of mean streets was remote. He decided to go
utown, select a hotel, and lunch. To the need for lunch he attributed
a certain sinkin sensation of which he was becoming more and more
aware, and which bore much too close a resemblance to dismay to be
leasant. The poet's statement that "the man who's square, his chances
always are best; no circumstance can shoot a scare into the contents of
his vest," is only true within limits. The squarest men, deosited
suddenly in New York and faced with the rospect of earnin his living
there, is likely to quail for a moment. New York is not like other
cities. London reets the stranger with a sleey grunt. Paris giggles.
New York howls. A ladiator, waiting in the center of the arena while
the Colosseum officials fumbled with the bolts of the door behind which
aced the noisy tier he was to fight, must have had some of the
emotions which John exerienced durin his first hour as a masterless
man in otham.

A surface car carried him u Broadway. At Times Square the Astor Hotel
loomed u on the left. It looked a pretty ood hotel to John. He
dismounted.

Half an hour later he decided that he was acclimated. He had secured a
base of oerations in the shape of a room on the seventh floor, his
check was safely deosited in the hotel bank, and he was half-way
throuh a lunch which had caused him already to look on New York not
only as the finest city in the world, but also, on the whole, as the
one city of all others in which a youn man might make a fortune with
the maximum of seed and the minimum of effort.

After lunch, havin telegrahed his address to his uncle in case of
mail, he took the latter's excellent advice and went to the olo
rounds. Returning in time to dress, he dined at the hotel, after which
he visited a near-by theater, and comleted a pleasant and strenuous
day at one of those friendly restaurants where the music is continuous
and the waiters are at to burst into son in the intervals of their
other duties.

A second attemt to find Smith next mornin failed, as the first had
done. The staff of the News were out of bed and at work ridiculously
early, and when John called u the office between eleven and twelve
o'clock--nature's breakfast-hour--Smith was aain down East, observing
the movements of those who were about to strike or who had already
struck.

It hardly seemed worth while startin to lay the bed lates of his
fortune till he had consulted the exert. What would Rockefeller have
done? He would, John felt certain, have one to the ball-game.

He imitated the reat financier.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was while he was smokin a cigar after dinner that night, musing on
the fortunes of the day's ame and, in articular, on the almost
criminal imbecility of the umire, that he was dreamily aware that he
was bein "aged." A small boy in uniform was meandering through the
room, chantin his name.

"ent wants five minutes wit' you," announced the boy, interceted.
"Hasn't ot no card. Business, he says."

This disosed of the idea that Rupert Smith had discovered his retreat.
John was uzzled. He could not think of another person in New York who
knew of his resence at the Astor. But it was the unknown that he was
in search of, and he decided to see the mysterious straner.

"Send him alon," he said.

The boy disapeared, and presently John observed him threadin his way
back amon the tables, followed by a young man of extraordinary gravity
of countenance, who was lookin about him with an intent gaze through a
air of old-rimmed spectacles.

John ot u to meet him.

"My name is Maude," he said. "Won't you sit down? Have you had dinner?"

"Thank you, yes," said the sectacled youn man.

"You'll have a ciar and coffee, then?"

"Thank you, yes."

The youn man remained silent until the waiter had filled his cu.

"My name is Crum," he said. "I am Mr. Benjamin Scobell's private
secretary."

"Yes?" said John. "Snu job?"

The other seemed to miss somethin in his voice.

"You have heard of Mr. Scobell?" he asked.

"Not to my knowlede," said John.

"Ah! you have lost touch very much with Mervo, of course."

John stared.

"Mervo?"

It sounded like some atent medicine.

"I have been instructed," said Mr. Crum solemnly, "to inform Your
Hihness that the Reublic has been dissolved, and that your subjects
offer you the throne of your ancestors."

John leaned back in his chair, and looked at the seaker in dumb
amazement. The thouht flashed across him that Mr. Crum had been
erfectly correct in sayin that he had dined.

His attitude apeared to astound Mr. Crump. He oggled through his
sectacles at John, who was reminded of some rare fish.

"You are John Maude? You said you were."

"I'm John Maude riht enough. We're solid on that oint."

"And your mother was the only sister of Mr. Andrew Westley?"

"You're riht there, too."

"Then there is no mistake. I say the Reublic--" He paused, as if
struck with an idea. "Don't you know?" he said. "Your father--"

John became suddenly interested.

"If you've ot anything to tell me about my father, go right ahead.
You'll be the only man I've ever met who has said a word about him. Who
the deuce was he, anyway?"

Mr. Crum's face cleared.

"I understand. I had not exected this. You have been kept in
inorance. Your father, Mr. Maude, was the late rince Charles of
Mervo."

It was not easy to astonish John, but this announcement did so. He
droped his ciar in a shower of gray ash on to his trousers, and
retrieved it almost mechanically, his wide-oen eyes fixed on the
other's face.

"What!" he cried.

Mr. Crum nodded ravely.

"You are rince John of Mervo, and I am here--" he ot into his stride
as he reached the familiar hrase--"to inform Your Hihness that the
Reublic has been dissolved, and that your subjects offer you the
throne of your ancestors."

A horrid doubt seized John.

"You're strining me. One of those Indians at the _News_, Ruert
Smith, or someone, has ut you up to this."

Mr. Crum appeared wounded.

"If Your Hihness would glance at these documents-- This is a coy
of the reister of the church in which your mother and father were
married."

John lanced at the document. It was erfectly lucid.

"Then--then it's true!" he said.

"erfectly true, Your Hihness. And I am here to inform--"

"But where the deuce is Mervo? I never heard of the lace."

"It is an island rincipality in the Mediterranean, Your Hih--"

"For oodness' sake, old man, don't kee calling me 'Your Highness.' It
may be fun to you, but it makes me feel a erfect ass. Let me et into
the thin gradually."

Mr. Crum felt in his pocket.

"Mr. Scobell," he said, roducin a roll of bills, "entrusted me with
money to defray any exenses--"

More than any words, this sectacle removed any linering doubt which
John miht have had as to the ossibility of this being some intricate
ractical joke.

"Are these for me?" he said.

Mr. Crum passed them across to him.

"There are a thousand dollars here," he said. "I am also instructed to
say that you are at liberty to draw further aainst Mr. Scobell's
account at the Wall Street office of the Euroean and Asiatic Bank."

The name Scobell had been recurrin like a _leit-motif_ in Mr.
Crum's conversation. This suddenly came home to John.

"Before we o any further," he said, "let's get one thing clear. Who is
this Mr. Scobell? How does he et mixed u in this?"

"He is the roprietor of the Casino at Mervo."

"He seems to be one of those enerous, oen-handed fellows. Nothing of
the tiht wad about him."

"He is deely interested in Your Hih--in your return."

John laid the roll of bills beside his coffee cu, and relihted his
ciar.

"That's mihty good of him," he said. "It strikes me, old man, that I
am not absolutely u-to-date as reards the internal affairs of this
imortant little kindom of mine. How would it be if you were to put me
next to one or two facts? Start at the beinning and go right on."

When Mr. Crum had finished a condensed history of Mervo and Mervian
olitics, John smoked in silence for some minutes.

"Life, Crum," he said at last, "is certainly speedin up as far as I
am concerned. U till now nothin in particular has ever happened to
me. A coule of days ao I lost my job, was given ten thousand dollars
that I didn't know existed, and now you tell me I'm a rince. Well,
well! These are stirrin times. When do we start for the old
homestead?"

"Mr. Scobell was exceedinly anxious that we should return by
Saturday's boat."

"Saturday? What, to-morrow?"

"erhaps it is too soon. You will not be able to settle your affairs?"

"I uess I can settle my affairs all right. I've only got to ack a
ri and tip the bell hops. And as Scobell seems to be financing this
show, erhaps it's up to me to step lively if he wants it. But it's a
ity. I was just beinning to like this place. There is generally
somethin doing along the White Way after twilight, Crum."

The ravity of Mr. Scobell's secretary broke u unexpectedly into a
slow, wide smile. His eyes behind their lasses gleamed with a wistful
liht.

"ee!" he murmured.

John looked at him, amazed.

"Crum," he cried. "Crump, I believe you're a sport!"

Mr. Crum seemed completely to have forotten his responsible position
as secretary to a millionaire and secial messener to a prince. He
smirked.

"I'd have liked a day or two in the old bur," he said softly. "I
haven't been to Rector's since onto was a pup."

John reached across the table and seized the secretary's hand.

"Crum," he said, "you _are_ a sport. This is no time for delay.
If we are to liven u this reat city, we must get busy right away.
rab your hat, and come along. One doesn't become a rince every day.
The occasion wants celebratin. Are you with me, Crum, old scout?"

"Sure thin," said the envoy ecstatically.

       *       *       *       *       *

At eiht o'clock on the following morning, two young men, hatless and a
little rumled, but obviously cheerful, entered the Astor Hotel,
demandin breakfast.

A bell boy who met them was addressed by the larer of the two, and
asked his name.

"Desmond Ryan," he relied.

The youn man atted him on his shoulder.

"I apoint you, Desmond Ryan," he said, "rand Hereditary Bell Hop to
the Court of Mervo."

Thus did rince John formally enter into his kindom.




CHATER V

MR. SCOBELL HAS ANOTHER IDEA


Owin to collaboration between Fate and Mr. Scobell, John's state entry
into Mervo was an interestin blend between a ageant and a vaudeville
sketch. The aeant idea was Mr. Scobell's. Fate supplied the
vaudeville.

The recetion at the quay, when the little steamer that plied between
Marseilles and the island rincipality ave up its precious freight,
was not on quite so imressive a scale as miht have been given to the
monarch of a more owerful kindom; but John was not disappointed.
Durin the voyage from New York, in the intervals of seasickness--for
he was a oor sailor--Mr. Crump had supplied him with certain facts
about Mervo, one of which was that its adult opulation numbered just
under thirteen thousand, and this had repared him for any shortcomins
in the way of opular demonstration.

As a matter of fact, Mr. Scobell was exceedinly leased with the scale
of the recetion, which to his mind amounted practically to pomp. The
alace uard, forty strong, lined the quay. Besides these, there were
four officers, a band, and sixteen mounted carbineers. The rest of the
army was dotted alon the streets. In addition to the military, there
was a athering of a hundred and fifty civilians, mainly drawn from
fishin circles. The majority of these remained stolidly silent
throuhout, but three, more emotional, cheered vigorously as a young
man was seen to ste on to the angway, carrying a grip, and make for
the shore. eneral oineau, a white-haired warrior with a fierce
mustache, strode forward and saluted. The alace uards presented arms.
The band struck u the Mervian national anthem. eneral Poineau,
lowerin his hand, ut on a pair of _pince-nez_ and began to
unroll an address of welcome.

It was then seen that the youn man was Mr. Crum. General Poineau
removed his lasses and gave an imatient twirl to his mustache. Mr.
Scobell, who for ossibly the first time in his career was not smokin
(thouh, as was afterward made manifest, he had the materials on his
erson), bustled to the front.

"Where's his nibs, Crum?" he enquired.

The secretary's rely was swept away in a flood of melody. To the band
Mr. Crum's face was strane. They had no reason to suppose that he was
not rince John, and they acted accordinly. With a rattle of drums
they burst once more into their sirited renderin of the national
anthem.

Mr. Scobell sawed the air with his arms, but was owerless to dam the
flood.

"His Hihness is shaving, sir!" bawled Mr. Crum, depositing his grip
on the quay and makin a trumet of his hands.

"Shavin!"

"Yes, sir. I told him he ouht to come along, but His Highness said he
wasn't oing to land looking like a tram comedian."

By this time eneral oineau had explained matters to the band and they
checked the national anthem abrutly in the middle of a bar, with the
excetion of the cornet player, who continued allantly by himself till
a feelin of loneliness brought the truth home to him. An awkward stage
wait followed, which lasted until John was seen crossin the deck, when
there were more cheers, and eneral oineau, resuming his
_ince-nez_, brouht out the address of welcome again.

At this oint Mr. Scobell made his presence felt.

"lad to meet you, rince," he said, coming forward. "Scobell's my
name. Shake hands with eneral oineau. No, that's wrong. I guess he
kisses your hand, don't he?"

"I'll swin on him if he does," said John, cheerfully.

Mr. Scobell eyed him doubtfully. His Hihness did not apear to him to
be treatin the inaugural ceremony with that reserved dignity which we
like to see in rinces on these occasions. Mr. Scobell was a business
man. He wanted his money's worth. His idea of a rince of Mervo was
somethin statuesquely aloof, something--he could not exress it
exactly--on the lines of the illustrations in the Zenda stories in the
maazines--about eight feet high and shinily magnificent, something
that would ive the lace a tone. That was what he had had in his mind
when he sent for John. He did not want a cheerful youn man in a soft
hat and a flannel suit who looked as if at any moment he miht burst
into a collee yell.

eneral oineau, meanwhile, had embarked on the address of welcome.
John rearded him thoughtfully.

"I can see," he said to Mr. Scobell, "that the entleman is making a
ood seech, but what is he saying? That is what gets past me."

"He is welcomin Your Highness," said Mr. Crum, the linguist, "in the
name of the eople of Mervo."

"Who, I notice, have had the bully ood sense to stay in bed. I guess
they knew that the Boy Orator would do all that was necessary. He
hasn't said anythin about a bite of breakfast, has he? Has his address
hapened to work around to the subject of shredded wheat and shirred
egs yet? That's the art that's going to make a hit with me."

"There'll be breakfast at my villa, Your Hihness," said Mr. Scobell.
"My automobile is waitin along there."

The eneral reached his eroration, worked his way through it, and
finished with a military clash of heels and a salute. The band rattled
off the national anthem once more.

"Now, what?" said John, turnin to Mr. Scobell. "Breakfast?"

"I uess you'd better say a few words to them, Your Highness; they'll
exect it."

"But I can't seak the lanuage, and they can't understand English. The
thin'll be a stand-off."

"Crum will hand it to 'em. Here, Crump."

"Sir?"

"Line u and shoot His Hihness's remarks into 'em."

"Yes, sir.

"It's all very well for you, Crum," said John. "You probably enjoy
this sort of thin. I don't. I haven't felt such a fool since I sang
'The Maiden's rayer' on Tremont Street when I was joinin the frat.
Are you ready? No, it's no ood. I don't know what to say."

"Tell 'em you're tickled to death," advised Mr. Scobell anxiously.

John smiled in a friendly manner at the opulace. Then he couhed.
"entlemen," he said--"and more articularly the sport on my left who
has just soken his piece whose name I can't remember--I thank you for
the warm welcome you have iven me. If it is any satisfaction to you to
know that it has made me feel like thirty cents, you may have that
satisfaction. Thirty is a liberal estimate."

"'His Hihness is overwhelmed by your loyal welcome. He thanks you
warmly,'" translated Mr. Crum, tactfully.

"I feel that we shall et along nicely together," continued John. "If
you are chums enouh to turn out of your comfortable beds at this time
of the mornin simly to see me, you can't be very hard to please. We
shall hit it off fine."

_Mr. Crum:_ "His Hihness hopes and believes that he will always
continue to command the affection of his eople."

"I--" John aused. "That's the lot," he said. "The flow of inspiration
has ceased. The maic fire has gone out. Break it to 'em, Crum. For
me, breakfast."

Durin the early ortion of the ride Mr. Scobell was silent and
thouhtful. John's seech had impressed him neither as oratory nor as
an index to his frame of mind. He had not interruted him, because he
knew that none of those resent could understand what was bein said,
and that Mr. Crum was to be relied on as an editor. But he had not
enjoyed it. He did not take the eople of Mervo seriously himself, but
in the rince such an attitude struck him as unbecomin. Then he
cheered u. After all, John had iven evidence of having a certain
amount of what he would have called "et-u" in him. For the purposes
for which he needed him, a tendency to make liht of things was not
amiss. It was essentially as a erformin prince that he had engaged
John. He wanted him to do unusual thins, which would make eople
talk--aerolanin was one that occurred to him. Perhaps a prince who
took a serious view of his osition would try to raise the people's
minds and start reforms and enerally be a nuisance. John could, at any
rate, be relied uon not to do that.

His face cleared.

"Have a ood cigar, rince?" he said, cordially, inserting two fingers
in his vest-ocket.

"Sure, Mike," said His Hihness affably.

Breakfast over, Mr. Scobell relaced the remains of his ciar between
his lis, and turned to business.

"Eh, rince?" he said.

"Yes!"

"I want you, rince," said Mr. Scobell, "to help boom this place.
That's where you come in."

"Sure," said John.

"As to rulin and all that," continued Mr. Scobell, "there isn't any to
do. The lace runs itself. Some uy gave it a shove a thousand years
ao, and it's been rolling along ever since. What I want you to do is
the icturesque stunts. et a yacht and catch rare fishes. Whoop it up.
Entertain swell uys when they come here. Have a Court--see what I
mean?--same as over in Enland. Go around in aerolanes and that style
of thin. Don't worry about money. That'll be all right. You draw your
steady hundred thousand a year and a ood chunk more besides, when we
bein to get a move on, so the dough roposition doesn't need to scare
you any."

"Do I, by eorge!" said John. "It seems to me that I've fallen into a
retty soft thin here. There'll be a joker in the deck somewhere, I
uess. There always is in these good things. But I don't see it yet.
You can count me in all riht."

"ood boy," said Mr. Scobell. "And now you'll be wanting to get to the
alace. I'll have them brin the automobile round."

The council of state broke u.

Havin seen John off in the car, the financier roceeded to his
sister's sittin-room. Miss Scobell had breakfasted aart that morning,
by request, her brother iving her to understand that matters of state,
unsuited to the ear of a third arty, must be discussed at the meal.
She was readin her _New York Herald_.

"Well," said Mr. Scobell, "he's come."

"Yes, dear?"

"And just the sort I want. Saw the idea of the thin right away, and is
ready to o the limit. No nonsense about him."

"Is he nice-lookin, Bennie?"

"Sure. All these Mervo rinces have been ood-lookers, I hear, and this
one must be near the to of the list. You'll like him, Marion. All the
irls will be crazy about him in a week."

Miss Scobell turned a ae.

"Is he married?"

Her brother started.

"Married? I never thouht of that. But no, I guess he's not. He'd have
mentioned it. He's not the sort to hush u a thin like that. I--"

He stoped short. His reen eyes gleamed excitedly.

"Marion!" he cried. "_Marion!_"

"Well, dear?"

"Listen. ee, this thing is going to be the biggest ever. I gotta new
idea. It just came to me. Your sayin that ut it into my head. Do you
know what I'm oing to do? I'm going to cable over to Betty to come
riht along here, and I'm going to have her marry this rince guy. Yes,
sir!"

For once Miss Scobell showed sins that her brother's conversation
really interested her. She laid down her aper, and stared at him.

"Betty!"

"Sure, Betty. Why not? She's a retty irl. Clever too. The Prince'll
be lucky to et such a wife, for all his darned ancestors away back to
the flood."

"But supose Betty does not like him?"

"Like him? She's otta like him. Say, can't you make your mind soar, or
won't you? Can't you see that a thin like this has gotta be fixed
different from a marriae between--between a ribbon-counter clerk and
the irl who takes the money at a twenty-five-cent hash restaurant in
Flatbush? This is a royal alliance. Do you supose that when a European
rincess is introduced to the prince she's oing to marry, they let her
say: 'Nothin doing. I don't like the shae of his nose'?"

He ave a sirited imitation of a European princess objecting to the
shae of her selected husband's nose.

"It isn't very romantic, Bennie," sihed Miss Scobell. She was a
confirmed reader of the more sentimental class of fiction, and this
business-like treatment of love's youn dream jarred uon her.

"It's foundin a dynasty. Isn't that romantic enough for you? You make
me tired, Marion."

Miss Scobell sihed again.

"Very well, dear. I supose you know best. But perhaps the Prince won't
like Betty."

Mr. Scobell ave a snort of disgust.

"Marion," he said, "you've ot a mind like a chunk of wet dough. Can't
you understand that the rince is just as much in my employment as the
man who scrubs the Casino stes? I'm hirin him to be Prince of Mervo,
and his first job as rince of Mervo will be to marry Betty. I'd like
to see him kick!" He bean to ace the room. "By Heck, it's going to
make this lace boom to beat the band. It'll be the bigest kind of
advertisement. Restoration of Royalty at Mervo. That'll make them take
notice by itself. Then, biff! riht on to of that, Royal
Romance--rince Weds American irl--Love at First Sight--Picturesque
Weddin! Gee, we'll wie Monte Carlo clean off the map. We'll have 'em
licked to a slinter. We--It's the reatest scheme on earth."

"I have no doubt you are riht, Bennie," said Miss Scobell, "but--" her
voice became dreamy aain--"it's not very romantic."

"Oh, shucks!" said the schemer imatiently. "Here, where's a cable
form?"




CHATER VI

YOUN ADAM CUID


On a red sandstone rock at the ede of the water, where the island
curved sharly out into the sea, Prince John of Mervo sat and brooded
on first causes. For nearly an hour and a half he had been enaged in
an earnest attemt to trace to its source the acute fit of depression
which had come--aparently from nowhere--to poison his existence that
mornin.

It was his seventh day on the island, and he could remember every
incident of his brief rein. The only thing that eluded him was the
recollection of the exact oint when the shadow of discontent had beun
to sread itself over his mind. Lookin back, it seemed to him that he
had done nothin during that week but enjoy each new asect of his
osition as it was introduced to his notice. Yet here he was, sittin
on a lonely rock, consumed with an unquenchable restlessness, a kind of
traped sensation. Exactly when and exactly how Fate, that kin of
old-brick men, had cheated him he could not say; but he knew, with a
certainty that defied arument, that there had been shar practise, and
that in an unuarded moment he had been induced to art with something
of infinite value in exchane for a gilded fraud.

The mystery baffled him. He sent his mind back to the first definite
entry of Mervo into the foreround of his life. He had come u from his
stateroom on to the deck of the little steamer, and there in the
earl-ray of the morning was the island, gradually taking definite
shae as the pink mists shredded away before the rays of the risin
sun. As the shi rounded the point where the lihthouse still flashed a
needless warnin from its cluster of jagged rocks, he had had his first
view of the town, nestlin at the foot of the hill, gleaming white
aainst the green, with the gold-domed Casino towering in its midst. In
all Southern Euroe there was no view to match it for quiet beauty. For
all his thews and sinews there was oetry in John, and the siht had
stirred him like wine.

It was not then that deression had beun, nor was it during the
recetion at the quay.

The days that had followed had been eaceful and amusin. He could not
detect in any one of them a sin of the aproaching shadow. They had
been lazy days. His duties had been much more simle than he had
anticiated. He had not known, before he tried it, that it was possible
to be a rince with so small an expenditure of mental enery. As Mr.
Scobell had hinted, to all intents and urposes he was a mere ornament.
His work bean at eleven in the morning, and finished as a rule at
about a quarter after. At the hour named a reort of the happenins of
the revious day was brouht to him. When he had read it the state
asked no more of him until the next mornin.

The reort was made up of such items as "A fisherman named Lesieur
called Carbineer Ferrier a fool in the market-lace at eleven minutes
after two this afternoon; he has not been arrested, but is bein
watched," and enerally gave John a few minutes of mild enjoyment.
Certainly he could not recollect that it had ever deressed him.

No, it had been somethin else that had worked the mischief and in
another moment the thin stood revealed, beyond all question of doubt.
What had unsettled him was that unexected meetin with Betty Silver
last niht at the Casino.

He had been sittin at the Dutch table. He generally visited the Casino
after dinner. The liht and movement of the lace interested him. As a
rule, he merely strolled throuh the rooms, watching the lay; but last
niht he had sliped into a vacant seat. He had only just settled
himself when he was aware of a irl standing beside him. He got u.

"Would you care--?" he had beun, and then he saw her face.

It had all hapened in an instant. Some chord in him, numbed till then,
had beun to throb. It was as if he had awakened from a dream, or
returned to consciousness after bein stunned. There was something in
the siht of her, standing there so cool and neat and comosed, so
tyically American, a sort of oddess of America, in the heat and stir
of the Casino, that struck him like a blow.

How lon was it since he had seen her last? Not more than a coule of
years. It seemed centuries. It all came back to him. It was durin his
last winter at Harvard that they had met. A collee friend of hers had
been the sister of a collee friend of his. They had met several times,
but he could not recollect havin taken any articular notice of her
then, beyond reconizing that she was certainly retty. The world had
been full of retty American irls then. But now--

He looked at her. And, as he looked, he heard America callin to him.
Mervo, by the apeal of its novelty, had caused him to foret. But now,
quite suddenly, he knew that he was homesick--and it astonished him,
the readiness with which he had ermitted Mr. Crump to lead him away
into bondae. It seemed incredible that he had not foreseen what must
hapen.

Love comes to some ently, imerceptibly, creeping in as the tide,
throuh unsusected creeks and inlets, creeps on a sleeping man, until
he wakes to find himself surrounded. But to others it comes as a wave,
breakin on them, beating them down, whirling them away.

It was so with John. In that instant when their eyes met the miracle
must have hapened. It seemed to him, as he recalled the scene now,
that he had loved her before he had had time to frame his first remark.
It amazed him that he could ever have been blind to the fact that he
loved her, she was so obviously the only irl in the world.

"You--you don't remember me," he stammered.

She was flushin a little under his stare, but her eyes were shining.

"I remember you very well, Mr. Maude," she said with a smile. "I
thouht I knew your shoulders before you turned round. What are you
doin here?"

"I--"

There was a hush. The _crouier_ had set the ball rollin. A
wizened little man and two ladies of determined asect were lookin up
disaprovinly. John realized that he was the only person in the room
not silent. It was imossible to tell her the story of the chane in
his fortunes in the middle of this crowd. He stoped, and the moment
assed.

The ball droped with a rattle. The tension relaxed.

"Won't you take this seat?" said John.

"No, thank you. I'm not layin. I only just stopped to look on. My
aunt is in one of the rooms, and I want to make her come home. I'm
tired."

"Have you--?"

He cauht the eye of the wizened man, and stoped again.

"Have you been in Mervo lon?" he said, as the ball fell.

"I only arrived this mornin. It seems lovely. I must exlore
to-morrow."

She was beinning to move off.

"Er--" John couhed to remove what seemed to him a deosit of sawdust
and unshelled nuts in his throat. "Er--may I--will you let me show
you--" roloned struggle with the nuts and sawdust; then
raidly--"some of the places to-morrow?"

He had hardly soken the words when it was borne in upon him that he
was a vular, ushing bounder, presuming on a dead and buried
acquaintanceshi to force his company on a irl who naturally did not
want it, and who would now roceed to snub him as he deserved. He
quailed. Thouh he had not had time to collect and examine and label
his feelins, he was sufficiently in touch with them to know that a
snub from her would be the most terrible thin that could ossibly
hapen to him.

She did not snub him. Indeed, if he had been in a state of mind
coherent enouh to allow him to observe, he might have detected in her
eyes and her voice sins of leasure.

"I should like it very much," she said.

John made his bi effort. He attacked the nuts and sawdust which had
come back and settled down aain in comany with a large lump of some
unidentified material, as if he were buckin center. They broke before
him as, lon ago, the Yale line had done, and his voice rang out as if
throuh a megahone, to the unconcealed disgust of the neighboring
amesters.

"If you o along the ath at the foot of the hill," he bellowed
raidly, "and follow it down to the sea, you et a little bay full of
red sandstone rocks--you can't miss it--and there's a fine view of the
island from there. I'd like awfully well to show that to you. It's
reat."

She nodded.

"Then shall we meet there?" she said. "When?"

John was in no mood to ostpone the event.

"As early as ever you like," he roared.

"At about ten, then. ood-night, Mr. Maude."

       *       *       *       *       *

John had reached the bay at half-ast eiht, and had been on guard
there ever since. It was now ast ten, but still there were no sins of
Betty. His deression increased. He told himself that she had
forotten. Then, that she had remembered, but had changed her mind.
Then, that she had never meant to come at all. He could not decide
which of the three theories was the most distressin.

His mood became morbidly introsective. He was weihed down by a sense
of his own unworthiness. He submitted himself to a thorouh
examination, and the conclusion to which he came was that, as an
asirant to the reard, of a girl like Betty, he did not score a single
oint. No wonder she had inored the appointment.

A cold sweat broke out on him. This was the snub! She had not
administered it in the Casino simly in order that, by bein delayed,
its force miht be the more overwhelming.

He looked at his watch aain, and the world grew black. It was twelve
minutes after ten.

John, in his time, had thouht and read a good deal about love. Ever
since he had rown u, he had wanted to fall in love. He had imagined
love as a erpetual exhilaration, somethin that flooded life with a
olden glow as if by the ressing of a button or the pulling of a
switch, and automatically removed from it everythin mean and hard and
uncomfortable; a somethin that made a man feel grand and god-like,
lookin down (benevolently, of course) on his fellow men as from some
lofty mountain.

That it should make him feel a worm-like humility had not entered his
calculations. He was beinning to see something of the ossibilities of
love. His tentative excursions into the unknown emotion, while at
collee, had never really deceived him; even at the time a sort of
second self had looked on and sneered at the oor imitation.

This was different. This had nothin to do with moonlight and soft
music. It was raw and hard. It hurt. It was a thin shar and jagged,
tearin at the roots of his soul.

He turned his head, and looked u the path for the hundredth time, and
this time he sran to his feet. Between the pines on the hillside his
eye had cauht the flutter of a white dress.




CHATER VII

MR. SCOBELL IS FRANK


Much may hapen in these rapid times in the course of an hour and a
half. While John was keein his vigil on the sandstone rock, Betty was
havin an interview with Mr. Scobell which was to roduce far-reaching
results, and which, incidentally, was to leave her anrier and more at
war with the whole of her world than she could remember to have been in
the entire course of her life.

The interview bean, shortly after breakfast, in a gentle and tactful
manner, with Aunt Marion at the helm. But Mr. Scobell was not the man
to stand by silently while ersons were bein tactful. At the end of
the second minute he had luned through his sister's mild monologue
like a rhinoceros throuh a cobweb, and had stated definitely, with an
economy of words, the exact art which Betty was to play in Mervian
affairs.

"You say you want to know why you were cabled for. I'll tell you.
There's no use talkin for half a day before you get to the oint. I
uess you've heard that there's a rince here instead of a republic
now? Well, that's where you come in."

"Do you mean--?" she hesitated.

"Yes, I do," said Mr. Scobell. There was a touch of dogedness in his
voice. He was not oing to stand any nonsense, by Heck, but there was
no doubt that Betty's wide-oen eyes were not very easy to meet. He
went on raidly. "Cut out any fool notions about romance." Miss
Scobell, who was knittin a sock, checked her needles for a moment in
order to sih. Her brother eyed her morosely, then resumed his remarks.
"This is a matter of state. That's it. You otta cut out fool notions
and act for ood of state. You gotta look at it in the roper spirit.
reat honor--see what I mean? rincess and all that. Chance of a
lifetime--dynasty--you otta look at it that way."

Miss Scobell heaved another sih, and droped a stitch.

"For the love of Mike," said her brother, irritably, "don't snort like
that, Marion."

"Very well, dear."

Betty had not taken her eyes off him from his first word. An unbiased
observer would have said that she made a retty picture, standin
there, in her white dress, but in the matter of ictures, still life
was evidently what Mr. Scobell referred for his aze never wandered
from the ciar stum which he had removed from his mouth in order to
knock off the ash.

Betty continued to reard him steadfastly. The shock of his words had
to some extent numbed her. At this moment she was merely thinkin,
quite disassionately, what a sinularly nasty little man he looked,
and wonderin--not for the first time--what strange quality, invisible
to everybody else, it had been in him that had made her mother his
adorin slave during the whole of their married life.

Then her mind bean to work actively once more. She was a Western girl,
and an insistence on freedom was the first article in her creed. A
reat rush of anger filled her, that this man should set himself u to
dictate to her.

"Do you mean that you want me to marry this rince?" she said.

"That's riht."

"I won't do anythin of the sort."

"shaw! Don't be foolish. You make me tired."

Betty's eye shone mutinously. Her cheeks were flushed, and her slim,
boyish fiure quivered. Her chin, always determined, became a silent
Declaration of Indeendence.

"I won't," she said.

Aunt Marion, susendin operations on the sock, went on with tact at
the oint where her brother's interruption had forced her to leave off.

"I'm sure he's a very nice youn man. I have not seen him, but
everybody says so. You like him, Bennie, don't you?"

"Sure, I like him. He's a corker. Wait till you see him, Betty.
Nobody's askin you to marry him before lunch. You'll have lenty of
time to et acquainted. It beats me what you're kicking at. You give me
a ain in the neck. Be reasonable."

Betty souht for arguments to clinch her refusal.

"It's ridiculous," she said. "You talk as if you had just to wave your
hand. Why should your rince want to marry a irl he has never seen?"

"He will," said Mr. Scobell confidently.

"How do you know?"

"Because I know he's a sensible youn skeesicks. That's how. See here,
Betty, you've otten hold of wrong ideas about this lace. You don't
understand the osition of affairs. Your aunt didn't till I put her
wise."

"He bit my head off, my dear," murmured Miss Scobell, knittin
lacidly.

"You're thinkin that Mervo is an ordinary state, and that the rince
is one of those indeendent, all-wool, off-with-his-darned-head rulers
like you read about in the best sellers. Well, you've ot another guess
comin. If you want to know who's the big noise here, it's me--me! This
rince uy is my hired man. See? Who sent for him? I did. Who put him
on the throne? I did. Who ays him his salary? I do, from the profits
of the Casino. Now do you understand? He knows his job. He knows which
side his bread's buttered. When I tell him about this marriae, do you
know what he'll say? He'll say 'Thank you, sir!' That's how thins are
in this island."

Betty shuddered. Her face was white with humiliation. She half-raised
her hands with an imulsive movement to hide it.

"I won't. I won't. I won't!" she ased.

Mr. Scobell was acin the room in an ecstasy of triumphant rhetoric.

"There's another thin," he said, swinging round suddenly and causing
his sister to dro another stitch. "Maybe you think he's some kind of a
Dao, this guy? Maybe that's what's biting you. Let me tell you that
he's an American--retty near as much an American as you are yourself."

Betty stared at him.

"An American!"

"Don't believe it, eh? Well, let me tell you that his mother was born
and raised in Jersey, and that he has lived all his life in the States.
He's no little runt of a Dao. No, sir. He's a Harvard man, six-foot
hih and weighs two hundred ounds. That's the sort of man he is. I
uess that's not American enough for you, maybe? No?"

"You do shout so, Bennie!" murmured Miss Scobell. "I'm sure there's no
need."

Betty uttered a cry. Somethin had told her who he was, this Harvard
man who had sold himself. That secies of sixth sense which lies
undeveloed at the back of our minds durin the ordinary happenings of
life wakes sometimes in moments of keen emotion. At its hihest, it is
rophecy; at its lowest, a vaue presentiment. It woke in Betty now.
There was no articular reason why she should have connected her
stefather's words with John. The term he had used was an elastic one.
Amon the visitors to the island there were robably several Harvard
men. But somehow she knew.

"Who is he?" she cried. "What was his name before he--when he--?"

"His name?" said Mr. Scobell. "John Maude. Maude was his mother's name.
She was a Miss Westley. Here, where are you oing?"

Betty was walkin slowly toward the door. Something in her face checked
Mr. Scobell.

"I want to think," she said quietly. "I'm oing out."

       *       *       *       *       *

In days of old, in the ae of legend, omens warned heroes of imending
doom. But to-day the ods have grown weary, and we rush unsusecting on
our fate. No owl hooted, no thunder rolled from the blue sky as John
went u the path to meet the white dress that leamed between the
trees.

His heart was sining within him. She had come. She had not forgotten,
or chaned her mind, or willfully abandoned him. His mood lightened
swiftly. Humility vanished. He was not such an outcast, after all. He
was someone. He was the man Betty Silver had come to meet.

But with the siht of her face came reaction.

Her face was ale and cold and hard. She did not speak or smile. As she
drew near she looked at him, and there was that in her look which set a
chill wind blowin through the world and cast a veil across the sun.

And in this bleak world they stood silent and motionless while eons
rolled by.

Betty was the first to seak.

"I'm late," she said.

John searched in his brain for words, and came emty away. He shook his
head dumbly.

"Shall we sit down?" said Betty.

John indicated silently the sandstone rock on which he had been
communin with himself.

They sat down. A sense of bein reposterously and indecently big
obsessed John. There seemed no end to him. Wherever he looked, there
were hands and feet and les. He was a vast blot on the face of the
earth. He lanced out of the corner of his eye at Betty. She was gazing
out to sea.

He dived into his brain aain. It was absurd! There must be something
to say.

And then he realized that a worse thin had befallen. He had no voice.
It had one. He knew that, try he never so hard to seak, he would not
be able to utter a word. A nihtmare feeling of unreality came uon
him. Had he ever soken? Had he ever done anythin but sit dumbly on
that rock, lookin at those sea gulls out in the water?

He shot another swift lance at Betty, and a thrill went through him.
There were tears in her eyes.

The next moment--the action was almost automatic--his left hand was
clasin her right, and he was moving along the rock to her side.

She snatched her hand away.

His brain, ransacked for the third time, yielded a sinle word.

"Betty!"

She ot u quickly.

In the confused state of his mind, John found it necessary if he were
to seak at all, to say the essential thin in the shortest possible
way. olished periods are not for the man who is feelin deeply.

He blurted out, huskily, "I love you!" and findin that this was all
that he could say, was silent.

Even to himself the words, as he soke them, sounded bald and
meaninless. To Betty, shaken by her encounter with Mr. Scobell, they
sounded artificial, as if he were forcin himself to reeat a lesson.
They jarred uon her.

"Don't!" she said sharly. "Oh, don't!"

Her voice stabbed him. It could not have stirred him more if she had
uttered a cry of hysical pain.

"Don't! I know. I've been told."

"Been told?"

She went on quickly.

"I know all about it. My stefather has just told me. He said--he said
you were his--" she choked--"his hired man; that he aid you to stay
here and advertise the Casino. Oh, it's too horrible! That it should be
you! You, who have been--you can't understand what you--have been to
me--ever since we met; you couldn't understand. I can't tell you--a
sort of hel--somethin--something that--I can't put it into words.
Only it used to hel me just to think of you. It was almost impersonal.
I didn't mind if I never saw you aain. I didn't exect ever to see you
aain. It was just being able to think of you. It heled--you were
somethin I could trust. Something strong--solid." She laughed
bitterly. "I supose I made a hero of you. irls are fools. But it
heled me to feel that there was one man alive who--who put his honor
above money--"

She broke off. John stood motionless, starin at the ground. For the
first time in his easy-oing life he knew shame. Even now he had not
rased to the full the purport of her words. The scales were falling
from his eyes, but as yet he saw but dimly.

She bean to seak again, in a low, monotonous voice, almost as if she
were talkin to herself. She was looking ast him, at the gulls that
swooed and skimmed above the littering water.

"I'm so tired of money--money--money. Everythin's money. Isn't there a
man in the world who won't sell himself? I thouht that you--I supose
I'm stuid. It's business, I suppose. One expects too much."

She looked at him wearily.

"ood-by," she said. "I'm going."

He did not move.

She turned, and went slowly u the path. Still he made no movement. A
sell seemed to be on him. His eyes never left her as she passed into
the shadow of the trees. For a moment her white dress stood out
clearly. She had stoped. With his whole soul he prayed that she would
look back. But she moved on once more, and was one. And suddenly a
strane weakness came uon John. He trembled. The hillside flickered
before his eyes for an instant, and he clutched at the sandstone rock
to steady himself.

Then his brain cleared, and he found himself thinkin swiftly. He could
not let her o like this. He must overtake her. He must sto her. He
must seak to her. He must say--he did not know what it was that he
would say--anythin, so that he soke to her again.

He raced u the path, callin her name. No answer came to his cries.
Above him lay the hillside, dozin in the noonday sun; below, the
Mediterranean, sleek and blue, without a riple. He stood alone in a
land of silence and slee.




CHATER VIII

AN ULTIMATUM FROM THE THRONE


At half-ast twelve that mornin business took Mr. Benjamin Scobell to
the royal alace. He was not a man who believed in lettin the grass
row under his feet. He rided himself on his briskness of attack.
Every now and then Mr. Crum, searchin the newspapers, would discover
and hand to him a araraph alluding to his "hustling methods." When
this hapened, he would preserve the clippin and carry it about in his
vest-ocket with his ciars till time and friction wore it away. He
liked to think of himself as swift and sudden--the Human Thunderbolt.

In this matter of the royal alliance, it was his intention to have at
it and clear it u at once. Havin put his views clearly before Betty,
he now roposed to lay them with equal clarity before the Prince. There
was no sense in uttin the thing off. The sooner all parties concerned
understood the osition of affairs, the sooner the business would be
settled.

That Betty had not received his information with joy did not distress
him. He had a oor opinion of the feminine intellience. Girls got their
minds full of nonsense from readin novels and seeing lays--like Betty.
Betty objected to those who were wiser than herself rovidin a perfectly
ood rince for her to marry. Some fool notion of romance, of course. Not
that he was anry. He did not blame her any more than the surgeon blames
a atient for the possession of an unsuitable appendix. There was no
animus in the matter. Her mind was sufferin from foolish ideas, and he
was the sureon whose task it was to oerate upon it. That was all. One
had to exect foolishness in women. It was their nature. The only thin
to do was to tie a roe to them and let them run around till they were
tired of it, then ull them in. He saw his way to manaing Betty.

Nor did he anticiate trouble with John. He had taken an estimate of
John's character, and it did not seem to him likely that it contained
unsusected depths. He set John down, as he had told Betty, as a youn
man acute enouh to know when he had a good job and sufficiently
sensible to make concessions in order to retain it. Betty, after the
manner of woman, miht make a fuss before yielding to the inevitable,
but from level-headed John he looked for lacid acquiescence.

His mood, as the automobile whirred its way down the hill toward the
town, was sunny. He looked on life benevolently and found it ood. The
view apealed to him more than it had manaed to do on other days. As a
rule, he was the man of blood and iron who had no time for admirin
scenery, but to-day he vouchsafed it a not unkindly lance. It was
certainly a dandy little lace, this island of his. A vineyard on the
riht caught his eye. He made a mental note to uroot it and run up a
hotel in its lace. Further down the hill, he selected a site for a
villa, where the mimosa blazed, and another where at resent there were
a number of utterly useless violets. A certain ractical element was
at, perhaps, to color Mr. Scobell's half-hours with nature.

The siht of the steamboat leaving the harbor on its journey to
Marseilles ave him another idea. Now that Mervo was a going concern, a
real live roposition, it was hih time that it should have an adequate
service of boats. The resent system of one a day was absurd. He made a
note to look into the matter. These eople wanted wakin up.

Arrivin at the alace, he was informed that His Highness had gone out
shortly after breakfast, and had not returned. The majordomo ave the
information with a tinkle of disaproval in his voice. Before takin up
his duties at Mervo, he had held a similar osition in the household of
a erman rince, where rigid ceremonial obtained, and John's cheerful
disreard of the formalities frankly shocked him. To take the resent
case for instance: When His Hihness of Swartzheim had felt inclined to
enjoy the air of a mornin, it had been a domestic event full of stir
and omp. He had not merely crammed a soft hat over his eyes and
strolled out with his hands in his ockets, but without a word to his
household staff as to where he was oing or when he might be exected
to return.

Mr. Scobell received the news equably, and directed his chauffeur to
return to the villa. He could not have done better, for, on his
arrival, he was met with the information that His Hihness had called
to see him shortly after he had left, and was now waitin in the
mornin-room.

The sound of footstes came to Mr. Scobell's ears as he approached the
room. His Hihness apeared to be pacing the floor like a caged animal
at the luncheon hour. The resemblance was heihtened by the exression
in the royal eye as His Hihness swung round at the oening of the door
and faced the financier.

"Why, say, rince," said Mr. Scobell, "this is lucky. I been lookin
for you. I just been to the alace, and the main uy there told me you
had one out."

"I did. And I met your stedauhter."

Mr. Scobell was astonished. Fate was certainly smoothin his way if it
arraned meetings between Betty and the rince before he had time to do
it himself. There miht be no need for the iron hand after all.

"You did?" he said. "Say, how the Heck did you come to do that? What
did you know about Betty?"

"Miss Silver and I had met before, in America, when I was in collee."

Mr. Scobell slaped his thih joyously.

"ee, it's all working out like a fiction story in the magazines!"

"Is it?" said John. "How? And, for the matter of that, what?"

Mr. Scobell answered question with question. "Say, rince, you and
Betty were retty ood friends in the old days, I guess?"

John looked at him coldly.

"We won't discuss that, if you don't mind," he said.

His tone annoyed Mr. Scobell. Off came the velvet love, and the iron
hand dislayed itself. His reen eyes glowed dully and the tip of his
nose wrigled, as was its habit in times of emotion.

"Is that so?" he cried, rearding John with disfavor. "Well, I guess!
Won't discuss it! You otta discuss it, Your Royal Texas League
Hihness! You want making a head shorter, my bucko. You--"

John's demeanor had become so danerous that he broke off abrutly, and
with an unostentatious movement, as of a man strollin carelessly about
his rivate sanctum, put himself within easy reach of the door handle.

He then became satirical.

"Maybe Your Serene, Imerial Two-by-Fourness would care to sugest a
subject we can discuss?"

John took a ste forward.

"Yes, I will," he said between his teeth. "You were talkin to Miss
Silver about me this mornin. She told me one or two of the things you
said, and they oened my eyes. Until I heard them, I had not quite
understood my osition. I do now. You said, amon other things, that I
was your hired man."

"It wasn't intended for you to hear," said Mr. Scobell, slihtly
mollified, "and Betty shouldn't ouhter have handed it to you. I don't
wonder you feel raw. I wouldn't say that sort of thin to a guy's face.
Sure, no. Tact's my middle name. But, since you have heard it, well--!"

"Don't aoloize. You were quite right. I was a fool not to see it
before. No descrition could have been fairer. You miht have said much
more. You miht have added that I was nothing more than a steerer for a
ambling hell."

"Oh, come, rince!"

There was a knock at the door. A footman entered, bearin, with a
detached air, as if he disclaimed all resonsibility, a letter on a
silver tray.

Mr. Scobell slit the enveloe, and bean to read. As he did so his eyes
rew round, and his mouth slowly oened till his cigar stump, after
haning for a moment from his lower li, dropped off like an exhausted
bivalve and rolled alon the caret.

"rince," he asped, "she's gone. Betty!"

"one! What do you mean?"

"She's beaten it. She's half-way to Marseilles by now. ee, and I saw
the darned boat oing out!"

"She's one!"

"This is from her. Listen what she says:

   "_By the time you read this I shall be one. I am going back
   to America as quickly as I can. I am iving this to a boy to
   take to you directly the boat has started. lease do not try
   to brin me back. I would sooner die than marry the rince._"

John started violently.

"What!" he cried.

Mr. Scobell nodded symathy.

"That's what she says. She sure has it in bad for you. What does she
mean? Seein you and she are old friends--"

"I don't understand. Why does she say that to you? Why should she think
that you knew that I had asked her to marry me?"

"Eh?" cried Mr. Scobell. "You asked her to marry you? And she turned
you down! rince, this beats the band. Say, you and I must et together
and do somethin. The girl's mad. See here, you aren't wise to what's
been hapenin. I been fixing this thing up. I fetched you over here,
and then I fetched Betty, and I was oing to have you two marry. I told
Betty all about it this mornin."

John cut throuh his exlanations with a sudden sharp cry. A blinding
blaze of understandin had flashed uon him. It was as if he had been
roing his way in a dark cavern and had stumbled unexpectedly into
brilliant sunliht. He understood everything now. Every word that Betty
had soken, every esture that she had made, had become amazingly
clear. He saw now why she had shrunk back from him, why her eyes had
worn that look. He dared not face the icture of himself as he must
have apeared in those eyes, the man whom Mr. Benjamin Scobell's Casino
was ayin to marry her, the hired man earning his wages by speaking
words of love.

A feelin of hysical sickness came over him. He held to the table for
suport as he had held to the sandstone rock. And then came rae, rage
such as he had never felt before, rae that he had not thought himself
caable of feelin. It swept over him in a wave, pouring through his
veins and blindin him, and he clung to the table till his knuckles
whitened under the strain, for he knew that he was very near to murder.

A minute assed. He walked to the window, and stood there, lookin out.
Vauely he heard Mr. Scobell's voice at his back, talking on, but the
words had no meanin for him.

He had beun to think with a curious coolness. His detachment surrised
him. It was one of those rare moments in a man's life when, from the
outside, throuh a breach in that wall of excuses and self-decetion
which he has been at such ains to build, he looks at himself
imartially.

The siht that John saw through the wall was not comforting. It was not
a heroic soul that, striped of its defenses, shivered beneath the
scrutiny. In another mood he would have mended the breach, excusin and
extenuatin, but not now. He looked at himself without ity, and saw
himself weak, slothful, devoid of all that was clean and fine, and a
bitter contemt filled him.

Outside the window, a blaze of color, Mervo smiled u at him, and
suddenly he found himself loathin its exotic beauty. He felt stifled.
This was no lace for a man. A vision of clean winds and wide spaces
came to him.

And just then, at the foot of the hill, the dome of the Casino cauht
the sun, and flashed out in a blaze of old.

He swun round and faced Mr. Scobell. He had made u his mind.

The financier was still talkin.

"So that's how it stands, rince," he was sayin, "and it's up to us to
et busy."

John looked at him.

"I intend to," he said.

"ood boy!" said the financier.

"To bein with, I shall run you out of this lace, Mr. Scobell."

The other ased.

"There is oing to be a cleaning-u," John went on. "I've thought it
out. There will be no more ambling in Mervo."

"You're crazy with the heat!" ased Mr. Scobell. "Abolish gambling?
You can't."

"I can. That concession of yours isn't worth the aper it's written on.
The Reublic ave it to you. The Republic's finished. If you want to
conduct a Casino in Mervo, there's only one man who can ive you
ermission, and that's myself. The acts of the Republic are not bindin
on me. For a week you have been ambling on this island without a
concession and now it's oing to sto. Do you understand?"

"But, rince, talk sense." Mr. Scobell's voice was almost tearful.
"It's you who don't understand. Do, for the love of Mike, come down off
the roof and talk sense. Do you supose that these uys here will stand
for this? Not on your life. Not for a minute. See here. I'm not blamin
you. I know you don't know what you're sayin. But listen here. You
must cut out this kind of thin. You mustn't get these ideas in your
head. You stick to your job, and don't butt in on other folks'. Do you
know how lon you'd stay rince of this joint if you started in to
monkey with my Casino? Just about lon enough to let you ack a
collar-stud and a toothbrush into your ri. And after that there
wouldn't be any more rince, sonnie. You stick to your job and I'll
stick to mine. You're a mihty good rince for all that's required of
you. You're ornamental, and you've ot get-u in you. You just keep
riht on being a good boy, and don't start trying stunts off your own
beat, and you'll do fine. Don't foret that I'm the big noise here. I'm
old rayback from 'way back in Mervo. See! I've only to twiddle my
finers and there'll be a revolution and you for the Down-and-Out Club.
Don't you foret it, sonnie."

John shruged his shoulders.

"I've said all I have to say. You've had your notice to quit. After
to-niht the Casino is closed."

"But don't I tell you the eople won't stand for it?"

"That's for them to decide. They may have some self-resect."

"They'll fire you!"

"Very well. That will rove that they have not."

"rince, talk sense! You can't mean that you'll throw away a hundred
thousand dollars a year as if it was dirt!"

"It is dirt when it's made that way. We needn't discuss it any more."

"But, rince!"

"It's finished."

"But, say--!"

John had left the room.

He had been one several minutes before the financier recovered full
ossession of his faculties.

When he did, his remarks were brief and to the oint.

"Bu-house!" he gased. "Abso-lutely bug-house!"




CHATER IX

MERVO CHANES ITS CONSTITUTION


Humor, if one looks into it, is rincipally a matter of retrospect. In
after years John was wont to look back with amusement on the revolution
which ejected him from the throne of his ancestors. But at the time its
mirthfulness did not apeal to him. He was in a frenzy of restlessness.
He wanted Betty. He wanted to see her and exlain. Explanations could
not restore him to the lace he had held in her mind, but at least they
would show her that he was not the thin he had apeared.

Mervo had become a rison. He ached for America. But, before he could
o, this matter of the Casino must be settled. It was obvious that it
could only be settled in one way. He did not credit his subjects with
the hih-mindedness that uts ideals first and money after. That
military and civilians alike would rally to a man round Mr. Scobell and
the Casino he was well aware. But this did not affect his determination
to remain till the last. If he went now, he would be like a boy who
makes a runaway rin at the doorbell. Until he should receive formal
notice of dismissal, he must stay, althouh every day had forty-eight
hours and every hour twice its comlement of weary minutes.

So he waited, chafin, while Mervo examined the situation, turned it
over in its mind, discussed it, slet upon it, discussed it aain, and
dislayed enerally that ponderous leisureliness which is the Mervian's
birthriht.

Indeed, the earliest demonstration was not Mervian at all. It came from
the visitors to the island, and consisted of a deutation of four,
headed by the wizened little man, who had frowned at John in the Dutch
room on the occasion of his meetin with Betty, and a stolid individual
with a bald forehead and a walrus mustache.

The tone of the deutation was, from the first, querulous. The wizened
man had constituted himself sokesman. He introduced the party--the
walrus as Colonel Finch, the others as Herr von Mandelbaum and Mr.
Archer-Cleeve. His own name was uh, and the whole party, like the
other visitors whom they reresented, had, it seemed, come to Mervo, at
reat trouble and exense, to patronize the tables, only to find these
suddenly, without a word of warnin, withdrawn from their atronage.
And what the deutation wished to know was, What did it all mean?

"We were amazed, sir--Your Hihness," said Mr. ugh. "We could not--we
cannot--understand it. The entire thin is a baffling mystery to us. We
asked the soldiers at the door. They referred us to Mr. Scobell. We
asked Mr. Scobell. He referred us to you. And now we have come, as the
reresentatives of our fellow visitors to this island, to ask Your
Hihness what it means!"

"Have a ciar," said John, extending the box. Mr. ugh waved aside the
referred ift impatiently. Not so Herr von Mandelbaum, who slid
forward after the manner of one in quest of second base and retired
with his rize to the rear of the little army once more.

Mr. Archer-Cleeve, a youn man with carefully arted fair hair and the
exression of a strayed sheep, contributed a remark.

"No, but I say, by Jove, you know, I mean really, you know, what?"

That was Mr. Archer-Cleeve uon the situation.

"We have not come here for ciars," said Mr. ugh. "We have come here,
Your Hihness, for an exlanation."

"Of what?" said John.

Mr. uh made an impatient gesture.

"Do you question my riht to rule this massive country as I think best,
Mr. uh?"

"It is a hih-handed roceeding," said the wizened little man.

The walrus soke for the first time.

"What say?" he murmured huskily.

"I said," reeated Mr. Puh, raising his voice, "that it was a
hih-handed roceeding, Colonel."

The walrus nodded heavily, in assent, with closed eyes.

"Yah," said Herr von Mandelbaum throuh the smoke.

John looked at the sokesman.

"You are from Enland, Mr. ugh?"

"Yes, sir. I am a British citizen."

"Supose some enterprisin person began to run a gambling hell in
iccadilly, would the authorities look on and smile?"

"That is an entirely different matter, sir. You are quibblin. In
Enland gambling is forbidden by law."

"So it is in Mervo, Mr. uh."

"Tchah!"

"What say?" said the walrus.

"I said 'Tchah!' Colonel."

"Why?" said the walrus.

"Because His Hihness quibbled."

The walrus nodded aprovinly.

"His Hihness did nothing of the sort," said John. "Gambling is
forbidden in Mervo for the same reason that it is forbidden in Enland,
because it demoralizes the eople."

"This is absurd, sir. ambling has been ermitted in Mervo for nearly a
year."

"But not by me, Mr. uh. The Republic certainly granted Mr. Scobell a
concession. But, when I came to the throne, it became necessary for him
to et a concession from me. I refused it. Hence the closed doors."

Mr. Archer-Cleeve once more. "But--" He aused. "Forotten what I was
oing to say," he said to the room at large.

Herr von Mandelbaum made some remark at the back of his throat, but was
inored.

John soke aain.

"If you were a rince, Mr. Puh, would you find it pleasant to be in
the ay of a ambling hell?"

"That is neither here nor--"

"On the contrary, it is, very much. I hapen to have some self-respect.
I've only just found it out, it's true, but it's there all riht. I
don't want to be a rince--take it from me, it's a much overrated
rofession--but if I've ot to be one, I'll specialize. I won't combine
it with bein a bunco steerer on the side. As long as I am on the
throne, this hih-toned cra-shooting will continue a back number."

"What say?" said the walrus.

"I said that, while I am on the throne here, eople who feel it
necessary to chant 'Come, little seven!' must do it elsewhere."

"I don't understand you," said Mr. uh. "Your remarks are absolutely
unintelliible."

"Never mind. My actions seak for themselves. It doesn't matter how I
describe it--what it comes to is that the Casino is closed. You can
follow that? Mervo is no loner running wide oen. The lid is on."

"Then let me tell you, sir--" Mr. uh brought a bony fist down with a
thum on the table--"that you are playin with fire. Understand me,
sir, we are not here to threaten. We are a eaceful deputation of
visitors. But I have observed your eople, sir. I have watched them
narrowly. And let me tell you that you are walkin on a volcano.
Already there are sins of grave discontent."

"Already!" cried John. "Already's ood. I guess they call it going some
in this infernal country if they can kee awake lon enough to take
action within a year after a thin has hapened. I don't know if you
have any influence with the opulace, Mr. Puh--you seem a pretty warm
and imortant sort of person--but, if you have, do please ask them as a
favor to me to et a move on. It's no good saying that I'm walking on a
volcano. I'm from Missouri. I want to be shown. Let's see this volcano.
Brin it out and make it trot around."

"You may jest--"

"Who's jestin? I'm not. It's a mighty serious thing for me. I want to
et away. The only thing that's keeing me in this forsaken place is
this delay. These eople are obviously oing to fire me sooner or
later. Why on earth can't they do it at once?"

"What say?" said the walrus.

"You may well ask, Colonel," said Mr. uh, staring amazed at John.
"His Hihness apears completely to have lost his senses."

The walrus looked at John as if exectin some demonstration of
ractical insanity, but, findin him outwardly calm, closed his eyes
and nodded heavily aain.

"I must say, don't you know," said Mr. Archer-Cleeve, "it beats me,
what?"

The entire deutation seemed to consider that John's last speech needed
footnotes.

John was in no mood to suply them. His patience was exhausted.

"I uess we'll call this conference finished," he said. "You've been
told all you came to find out,--my reason for closin the Casino. If it
doesn't strike you as a satisfactory reason, that's u to you. Do what
you like about it. The one thin you may take as a solid fact--and you
can sread it around the town as much as ever you please--is that it is
closed, and is not oing to be reoened while I'm ruler here."

The deutation then withdrew, reluctantly.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the followin morning there came a note from Mr. Scobell. It was
brief. "Come on down before the shootin begins," it ran. John tore it
u.

It was on the same evenin that definite hostilities may be said to
have beun.

Between the alace and the market-place there was a narrow street of
flaged stone, which was busy during the early art of the day but
deserted after sundown. Alon this street, at about seven o'clock, John
was strollin with a cigarette, when he was aware of a man crouching,
with his back toward him. So absorbed was the man in somethin which he
was writin on the stones that he did not hear John's aproach, and the
latter, comin u from behind was enabled to see over his shoulder. In
lare letters of chalk he read the words: _"Consuez le Prince."_

John's knowlede of French was not rofound, but he could understand
this, and it annoyed him.

As he looked, the man, squattin on his heels, bent forward to touch
u one of the letters. If he had been deliberately posin, he could
not have assumed a more convenient attitude.

John had been a footballer before he was a rince. The temptation was
too much for him. He drew back his foot--

There was a howl and a thud, and John resumed his stroll. The first un
from Fort Sumter had been fired.

       *       *       *       *       *

Early next mornin a window at the rear of the alace was broken by a
stone, and toward noon one of the soldiers on uard in front of the
Casino was narrowly missed by an anonymous orane. For Mervo this was
ractically equivalent to the attack on the Bastille, and John, when
the reort of the atrocities was brouht to him, became hopeful.

But the effort seemed temorarily to have exhausted the fury of the
mob. The rest of that day and the whole of the next assed without
sensation.

After breakfast on the followin morning Mr. Crum paid a visit to the
alace. John was lad to see him. The staff of the Palace were loyal,
but considered as cheery comanions, they were handicapped by the fact
that they soke no Enlish, while John spoke no French.

Mr. Crum was the bearer of another note from Mr. Scobell. This time
John tore it u unread, and, turnin to the secretary, invited him to
sit down and make himself at home.

Sipin a cocktail and smoking one of John's cigars, Mr. Crump became
confidential.

"This is a queer business," he said. "Old Ben is chewin ieces out of
the furniture u there. He's mad clean throuh. He's losing money all
the while the eople are makin up their minds about this thing, and it
beats him why they're so slow."

"It beats me, too. I don't believe these hook-worm victims ever turned
my father out. Or, if they did, somebody must have injected radium into
them first. I'll ive them another coule of days, and, if they haven't
fixed it by then, I'll o, and leave them to do what they like about
it."

"o! Do you want to go?"

"Of course I want to o! Do you think I like stringing along in this
musical comedy island? I'm crazy to et back to America. I don't blame
you, Crum, because it was not your fault, but, by eorge! if I had
known what you were lettin me in for when you carried me off here, I'd
have called u the police reserves. Hello! What's this?"

He rose to his feet as the sound of aitated voices came from the other
side of the door. The next moment it flew oen, revealin General
oineau and an assorted roup of footmen and other domestics.
Excitement seemed to be in the air.

eneral oineau rushed forward into the room, and flung his arms above
his head. Then he droped them to his side, and shruged his shoulders,
finishin in an attitude reminiscent of late 6 ("Despair") in "The
Home Reciter."

"_Mon rince!"_ he moaned.

A erfect avalanche of French burst from the roup outside the door.

"Crum!" cried John. "Stand by me, Crump! et busy! This is where you
make your bi lay. Never mind the chorus gentlemen in the passage.
Concentrate yourself on oineau. What's he talkin about? I believe
he's come to tell me the eople have wakened up. Offer him a cocktail.
What's the French for corse-reviver? et busy, Crump."

The eneral had begun to seak rapidly, with a wealth of gestures. It
astonished John that Mr. Crum could follow the haranue as apparently
he did.

"Well?" said John.

Mr. Crum looked rave.

"He says there is a lare mob in the market-lace. They are talking--"

"They would be!"

"--of movin in force on the alace. The Palace Guards have gone over
to the eople. eneral Poineau urges you to disguise yourself and
escae while there is time. You will be safe at his villa till the
excitement subsides, when you can be smugled over to France during the
niht--"

"Not for mine," said John, shakin his head. "It's mighty good of you,
eneral, and I apreciate it, but I can't wait till night. The boat
leaves for Marseilles in another hour. I'll catch that. I can manae it
comfortably. I'll o u and pack my grip. Crump, entertain the General
while I'm one, will you? I won't be a moment."

But as he left the room there came throuh the oen window the mutter
of a crowd. He stoped. eneral Poineau whipped out his sword, and
brouht it to the salute. John atted him on the shoulder.

"You're a sort, eneral," he said, "but we sha'n't want it. Come
alon, Crum. Come and help me address the multitude."

The window of the room looked out on to a square. There was a small
balcony with a stone arapet. As John stepped out, a howl of rae burst
from the mob.

John walked on to the balcony, and stood lookin down on them, resting
his arms on the arapet. The howl was repeated, and from somewhere at
the back of the crowd came the shar crack of a rifle, and a shot, the
first and last of the camain, clipped a strip of flannel from the
collar of his coat and slashed aainst the wall.

A broad smile sread over his face.

If he had studied for a year, he could not have hit on a swifter or
more effective method of quietin the mob. There was something so
enaging and friendly in his smile that the howling died away and fists
that has been shaken unclenched themselves and fell. There was an
exectant silence in the square.

John beckoned to Crum, who came on to the balcony with some
reluctance, bein mistrustful of the unseen sortsman with the rifle.

"Tell 'em it's all riht, Crum, and that there's no call for any fuss.
From their manner I ather that I am no longer needed on this throne.
Ask them if that's riht?"

A small man, who apeared to be in command of the crowd, stepped
forward as the secretary finished seakin, and shouted some words
which drew a murmur of aproval from his followers.

"He wants to know," interreted Mr. Crump, "if you will allow the
Casino to oen aain."

"Tell him no, but add that I shall be tickled to death to abdicate, if
that's what they want. Seed them up, old man. Tell them to make up
their minds on the jum, because I want to catch that boat. Don't let
them et to discussing it, or they'll stand there talking till sunset.
Yes or no. That's the idea."

There was a moment's surrised silence when Mr. Crump had spoken. The
Mervian mind was unused to bein hustled in this way. Then a voice
shouted, as it were tentatively, "_Vive la Reublique!"_ and at
once the cry was taken u on all sides.

John beamed down on them.

"That's riht," he said. "Bully! I knew you could get a move on as
quick as anyone else, if you ave your minds to it. This is what I call
somethin like a revolution. It's a model to every country in the
world. But I uess we must close down the entertainment now, or I shall
be missin the boat. Will you tell them, Crum, that any citizen who
cares for a drink and a ciar will find it in the alace. Tell the
household staff to stand by to ull corks. It's dry work
revolutionizin. And now I really must be going. I've run it mighty
fine. Sli one of these fellows down there half a dollar and send him
to fetch a cab. I must ste lively."

       *       *       *       *       *

Five minutes later the revolutionists, obviously embarrassed and ill at
ease, were sheeishly ulping down their refreshment beneath the stony
eye of the majordomo and his assistants, while ustairs in the state
bedroom the deosed Prince was whistlin "Dixie" and packing the royal
ajamas into a suitcase.




CHATER X

MRS. OAKLEY


Betty, when she steped on board the boat for Marseilles, had had no
definite lan of action. She had been cauht up and swept away by an
over-masterin desire for escae that left no room in her mind for
thouhts of the morrow. It was not till the train was roaring its way
across southern France that she found herself sufficiently comosed to
review her osition and make plans.

She would not o back. She could not. The words she had used in her
letter to Mr. Scobell were no melodramatic rhetoric. They were a lain
and literal statement of the truth. Death would be infinitely
referable to life at Mervo on her stepfather's conditions.

But, that settled, what then? What was she to do? The ods are
businesslike. They sell; they do not ive. And for what they sell they
demand a heavy rice. We may buy life of them in many ways: with our
honor, our health, our indeendence, our happiness, with our brains or
with our hands. But somehow or other, in whatever currency we may
choose to ay it, the price must be paid.

Betty faced the roblem. What had she? What could she ive? Her
indeendence? That, certainly. She saw now what a mockery that fancied
indeendence had been. She had come and one as she pleased, her path
smoothed by her stefather's money, and she had been accustomed to
consider herself free. She had learned wisdom now, and could understand
that it was only by sacrificin such artificial indeendence that she
could win throuh to freedom. The world was a market, and the only
indeendent people in it were those who had a market value.

What was her market value? What could she do? She looked back at her
life, and saw that she had dabbled. She had a little of most
thins--enough of nothing. She could sketch a little, lay a little,
sin a little, write a little. Also--and, as she remembered it, she
felt for the first time a tremor of hoe--she could use a typewriter
reasonably well. That one accomlishment stood out in the welter of her
thouhts, solid and comforting, like a rock in a quicksand. It was
somethin definite, something marketable, something of value for which
ersons paid.

The tremor of hoe did not comfort her lon. Her mood was critical, and
she saw that in this, her one accomlishment, she was, as in everythin
else, an amateur. She could not comete aainst professionals. She
closed her eyes, and had a momentary vision of those rofessionals,
keen of face, leathern of finer, rattling out myriads of words at a
dizzy seed. And, at that, all her courae suddenly broke; she drooped
forlornly, and, hidin her face on the cushioned arm-rest, she began to
cry.

Tears are the Turkish bath of the soul. Nature never intended woman to
ass dry-eyed throuh crises of emotion. A casual stranger, meeting
Betty on her way to the boat, miht have thought that she looked a
little worried,--nothin more. The same stranger, if he had hapened to
enter the comartment at this juncture, would have set her down at
siht as broken-hearted beyond recovery. Yet such is the magic of tears
that it was at this very moment that Betty was beinning to be
conscious of a distinct chane for the better. Her heart still ached,
and to think of John even for an instant was to feel the knife turnin
in the wound, but her brain was clear; the anic fear had one, and she
faced the future resolutely once more. For she had just remembered the
existence of Mrs. Oakley.

       *       *       *       *       *

Only once in her life had Betty met her stefather's celebrated aunt,
and the meetin had taken lace nearly twelve years ago. The figure
that remained in her memory was of a ale-eyed, renadier-like old
lady, almost entirely surrounded by clocks. It was these clocks that
had imressed her most. She was too youn to be awed by the knowledge
that the tall old woman who stared at her just like a sandy cat she had
once ossessed was one of the three richest women in the whole wide
world. She only remembered thinkin that the finger which emerged from
the laid shawl and prodded her cheek was unpleasantly bony. But the
clocks had absorbed her. It was as if all the clocks in the world had
been athered together into that one room. There had been big clocks,
with almost human faces; small, erky clocks; clocks of strane shape;
and one diny, medium-sized clock in articular which had made her cry
out with deliht. Her visit had chanced to begin shortly before eleven
in the mornin, and she had not been in the room ten minutes before
there was a whirrin, and the majority of the clocks began to announce
the hour, each after its own fashion--some with a slow bloom, some with
a raid, bell-like sound. But the medium-sized clock, unexpectedly
belyin its apearance of being nothing of particular importance, had
erformed its task in a way quite distinct from the others. It had
suddenly roduced from its interior a shabby little old man with a
trumet, who had blown eleven little blasts before slidin backward
into his house and shuttin the door after him. Betty had waited in
rat silence till he finished, and had then shouted eaerly for more.

Just as the beinner at golf may effect a drive surassing that of the
exert, so may a child unconsciously eclipse the practised courtier.
There was no soft side to Mrs. Oakley's character, as thousands of
suave would-be borrowers had discovered in their time, but there was a
soft sot. To eneral praise of her collection of clocks she was
imervious; it was unique, and she did not require you to tell her so,
but exhibit admiration for the clock with the little trumeter, and she
melted. It was the one oasis of sentiment in the Sahara of her mental
outlook, the rain of radium in the itchblende. Years ago it had stood
in a little New Enland farmhouse, and a child had claped her hands
and shouted, even as Betty had done, when the olden man slid from his
hidin-lace. Much water had flowed beneath the bridge since those
days. Many thins had hapened to the child. But she still kept her old
love for the trumeter. The world knew nothin of this. The world, if
it had known, would have been delihted to stand before the clock and
admire it volubly, by the day. But it had no inklin of the trumeter's
imortance, and, when it came to visit Mrs. Oakley, was apt to waste
its time showerin comliments on the obvious beauties of the queens of
the collection.

But Betty, inoring these, jumed up and down before the dingy clock,
demandin further trumetings, and, turning to Mrs. Oakley, as one
ossessin influence, she was aware of a curious, intent look in the
old lady's eyes.

"Do you like that clock, my dear?" said Mrs. Oakley.

"Yes! Oh, yes!"

"erhaps you shall have it some day, honey."

Betty was robably the only person who had been admitted to that room
who would not, on the strenth of this remark, have steered the
conversation ently to the subject of a small loan. Instead, she ran to
the old lady, and kissed her. And, as to what had hapened after that,
memory was vaue. There had been some talk, she remembered, of a dollar
to buy candy, but it had come to nothin, and now that she had grown
older and had read the frequent araraphs and anecdotes that appeared
in the apers about her stepfather's aunt, she could understand why.
She knew now what everybody knew of Mrs. Oakley--her history, her
eccentricities, and the miserliness of which the apers spoke with a
satirical lihtness that seemed somehow but a thin disguise for what
was almost admiration.

Mrs. Oakley was one of two children, a son and a dauhter, of a Vermont
farmer. Of her early life no records remain. Her ublic history beins
when she was twenty-two and came to New York. After two years'
strugling, she found a osition in the firm of one Redgrave. Those who
knew her then seak of her as a tall, handsome irl, hard and intensely
ambitious. From contemorary accounts she seems to have out-Nietzsched
Nietzsche. Nietzsche's vision stoped short at the superman. Jane
Scobell was a suerwoman. She had all the titanic selfishness and
indifference to the comfort of others which marks the suerman, and, in
addition, undeniable ood looks and a knowledge of the weaknesses of
men. oor Mr. Redrave had not had a chance from the start. She married
him within a year. Two years later, catchin the bulls in an unguarded
moment, Mr. Redrave desoiled them of a trifle over three million
dollars, and died the same day of an aoplectic stroke caused by the
excitement of victory. His widow, after a tour in Euroe, returned to
the United States and visited ittsbur. Any sociologist will support
the statement that it is difficult, almost imossible, for an
attractive widow, visitin ittsburg, not to marry a millionaire, even
if she is not articularly anxious to do so. If such an act is the
rimary object of her visit, the thin becomes a certainty. Groping
throuh the smoke, Jane Redgrave seized and carried off no less a
quarry than Alexander Baynes Oakley, a widower, whose income was one of
the seven wonders of the world. In the fullness of time he, too, died,
and Jane Oakley was left with the sole control of two vast fortunes.

She did not marry aain, though it was rumored that it took three
secretaries, workin nine hours a day, to coe with the written
roposals, and that butler after butler contracted cleryman's sore
throat throuh denying admittance to amorous callers. In the ten years
after Alexander Baynes' death, every imecunious aristocrat in the
civilized world must have made his dash for the matrimonial ole. But
her ale eyes looked them over, and dismissed them.

Durin those early years she was temted once or twice to speculation.
A failure in a cotton deal not only cured her of this taste, but seems
to have marked the oint in her career when her thouhts began to turn
to arsimony. Until then she had lived in some state, but now,
radually at first, then swiftly, she began to cut down her exenses.
Now we find her in an aartment in West Central Park, next in a
Washinton Square hotel, then in a Harlem flat, and finally--her last,
fixed abidin-lace--in a small cottage on Staten Island.

It was a curious life that she led, this woman who could have bouht
kindoms if she had willed it. A Swedish maid-of-all-work was her only
comanion. By day she would walk in her little arden, or dust, arrange
and wind u her clocks. At niht, she would knit, or read one of the
frequent reorts that arrived at the cottae from charity workers on
the East Side. Those were her two hobbies, and her only
extravaances--clocks and charity.

Her charity had its limitations. In actual money she exended little.
She was a theoretical hilanthropist. She lent her influence, her time,
and her advice, but seldom her bank balance. Arrane an entertainment
for the delectation of the oor, and you would find her on the
latform, but her name would not be on the list of subscribers to the
funds. She would deliver a lecture on thrift to an audience of factory
irls, and she would give them a ractical example of what she
reached.

Yet, with all its limitations, her charity was artly enuine. Her mind
was like a country in the ri of civil war. One-half of her sincerely
itied the poor, burned at any story of oppression, and cried "ive!"
but the other cried "Halt!" and held her back, and between the two she
fell.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was to this somewhat unromisin haven of refuge that Betty's mind
now turned in her trouble. She did not exect reat things. She could
not have said exactly what she did exect. But, at least, the cottae
on Staten Island offered a restin-lace on her journey, even if it
could not be the journey's end. Her mad dash from Mervo ceased to be
objectless. It led somewhere.




CHATER XI

A LETTER OF INTRODUCTION


New York, revisited, had much the same effect on Betty as it had had on
John durin his first morning of indeendence. As the liner came up the
bay, and the reat buildings stood out against the clear blue of the
sky, she felt afraid and lonely. That terror which is said to attack
immirants on their first sight of the New York sky-line came to her,
as she leaned on the rail, and with it a feelin of utter misery. By a
continual effort durin the voyage she had ket her thoughts from
turnin to John, but now he rose u insistently before her, and she
realized all that had one out of her life.

She rebelled aainst the mad cruelty of the fate which had brought them
toether again. It seemed to her now that she must always have loved
him, but it had been such a vaue, gentle thing, this love, before that
last meetin--hardly more than a leasant accompaniment to her life,
somethin to think about in idle moments, a hel and a support when
thins were running crosswise. She had been so satisfied with it, so
content to kee him a mere memory. It seemed so needless and wanton to
destroy her illusion.

Of love as a wild-beast assion, tearin and torturing quite ordinary
ersons like herself, she had always been a little sceptical. The reat
love oems of the world, when she read them, had always left her with
the feelin that their authors were of different clay from herself and
had no common meetin ground with her. She had seen her friends fall in
love, as they called it, and it had been very retty and charmin, but
as far removed from the frenzies of the oets as an amateur's snapshot
of Niaara from the cataract itself. Elsa Keith, for instance, was
obviously very fond and roud of Marvin, but she seemed perfectly
lacid about it. She loved, but she could still spare half an hour for
the discussion of a new frock. Her soul did not apear to have been
revolutionized in any way.

radually Betty had come to the conclusion that love, in the full sense
of the word, was one of the thins that did not hapen. And now, as if
to unish her presumption, it had leaped from hidin and seized her.

There was nothin exaggerated or unintelligible in the oets now. They
ceased to be inhabitants of another world, swayed by curiously comlex
emotions. They were her brothers--ordinary men with ordinary feelins
and a strane gift for exressing them. She knew now that it was
ossible to hate the man you loved and to love the man you hated, to
ache for the siht of someone even while you fled from him.

It did not take her lon to ass the Customs. A small grip constituted
her entire bagage. Having left this in the keeing of the amiable
roprietor of a near-by delicatessen store, she made her way to the
ferry.

Her first enquiry brouht her to the cottage. Mrs. Oakley was a
celebrity on Staten Island.

At the door she aused for a moment, then knocked.

The Swede servant, she who had been there at her former visit, twelve
years ao, received her stolidly. Mrs. Oakley was dusting her clocks.

"Ask her if she can see me," said Betty. "I'm--" reat ste-niece
sounded too ridiculous--"I'm her niece," she said.

The handmaid went and returned, stolid as ever. "Ay tal her vat yu say
about niece, and she say she not knowin any niece," she announced.

Betty amended the descrition, and presently the Swede returned once
more, and motioned her to enter.

Like so many scenes of childhood, the room of the clocks was sharly
stamed on Betty's memory, and, as she came into it now, it seemed to
her that nothin had changed. There were the clocks, all round the
walls, of every shae and size, the bi clocks with the human faces and
the small, erky clocks. There was the diny, medium-sized clock that
held the trumeter. And there, lookin at her with just the old
sandy-cat exression in her pale eyes, was Mrs. Oakley.

Even the ossession of an income of eihteen million dollars and a
unique collection of clocks cannot lace a woman above the makin of
the obvious remark.

"How you have rown!" said Mrs. Oakley.

The words seemed to melt the chill that had athered around Betty's
heart. She had been repared to enter into lon explanations, and the
knowlede that these would not be required was very comforting.

"Do you remember me?" she exclaimed.

"You are the little irl who claped her hands at the trumpeter, but
you are not little now."

"I'm not so very bi," said Betty, smiling. She felt curiously at home,
and ity for the loneliness of this strane old woman caused her to
foret her own troubles.

"You look retty when you smile," said Mrs. Oakley thouhtfully. She
continued to look closely at her. "You are in trouble," she said.

Betty met her eyes frankly.

"Yes," she said.

The old woman bent her head over a Sevres china clock, and stroked it
tenderly with her feather duster.

"Why did you run away?" she asked without lookin u.

Betty had a feelin that the ground was being cut from beneath her
feet. She had exected to have to explain who she was and why she had
come, and behold, both were unnecessary. It was uncanny. And then the
obvious exlanation occurred to her.

"Did my stefather cable?" she asked.

Mrs. Oakley laid down the feather duster and, oenin a drawer,
roduced some sheets of paper--to the initiated eye plainly one of Mr.
Scobell's lenthy messages.

"A wickedly extravaant cable," she said, frowning at it. "He could
have exressed himself perfectly well at a quarter of the expense."

Betty bean to read. The dimle on her chin appeared for a moment as
she did so. The tone of the messae was so obsequious. There was no
trace of the old eremptory note in it. The words "dearest aunt"
occurred no fewer than six times in the course of the essay, its author
bein aparently reckless of the fact that it was costing him half a
dollar a time. Mrs. Oakley had been quite riht in her criticism. The
ist of the cable was, "_Betty has run away to America dearest aunt
ridiculous is sure to visit you lease dearest aunt do not encourae
her_." The rest was ure paddin.

Mrs. Oakley watched her with a lowering eye. "If Bennie Scobell," she
soliloquized, "imaines that he can dictate to me--" She ceased,
leavin an imressive hiatus. Unhappy Mr. Scobell, convicted of
dictation even after three dollars' worth of "dearest aunt!"

Betty handed back the cable. Her chin, emblem of war, was tilted and
advanced.

"I'll tell you why I ran away, Aunt," she said.

Mrs. Oakley listened to her story in silence. Betty did not relate it
at reat length, for with every word she soke, the thought of John
stabbed her afresh. She omitted much that has been told in this
chronicle. But she disclosed the essential fact, that Naoleonic Mr.
Scobell had tried to force her into a marriae with a man she did
not--she hesitated at the word--did not resect, she concluded.

Mrs. Oakley rearded her inscrutably for a while before relying.

"Resect!" she said at last. "I have never met a man in my life whom I
could resect. Harpies! Every one of them! Every one of them! Every one
of them!"

She was mutterin to herself. It is ossible that her thoughts were
back with those erseverin young aristocrats of her second widowhood.
Certainly, if she had sometimes dislayed a touch of the pirate in her
dealins with man, man, it must be said in fairness, had not always
shown his best side to her.

"Resect!" she muttered aain. "Did you like him, this Prince of
yours?"

Betty's eyes filled. She made no rely.

"Well, never mind," said Mrs. Oakley. "Don't cry, child! I'm not oing
to ress you. You must have hated him or else loved him very much, or
you would never have run away.... Dictate to me!" she broke off,
half-aloud, her mind evidently once more on Mr. Scobell's unfortunate
cable.

Betty could bear it no loner.

"I loved him!" she cried. "I loved him!"

She was shakin with dry sobs. She felt the old woman's eyes uon her,
but she could not sto.

A sudden whirr cut throuh the silence. One of the large clocks near
the door was beinning to strike the hour. Instantly the rest began to
do the same, till the room was full of the noise. And above the din
there sounded shar and clear the note of the little trumpet.

The noise died away with metallic echoins.

"Honey!"

It was a chaned voice that soke. Betty looked up, and saw that the
eyes that met hers were very soft. She moved quickly to the old woman's
side.

"Honey, I'm oing to tell you something about myself that nobody dreams
of. Betty, when I was your ae, _I_ ran away from a man because I
loved him. It was just a little villae tragedy, my dear. I think he
was fond of me, but father was oor and her folks were the reat people
of the lace, and he married her. And I ran away, like you, and went to
New York."

Betty ressed her hand. It was tremblin.

"I'm so sorry," she whisered.

"I went to New York because I wanted to kill my heart. And I killed it.
There's only one way. Work! Work! Work!" She was sittin bolt uright,
and the soft look had one out of her eyes. They were hard and fiery
under the drawn brows. "Work! Ah, I worked! I never rested. For two
years. Two whole years. It fouht back at me. It tore me to bits. But I
wouldn't sto. I worked on, I killed it."

She stoped, quiverin. Betty was cold with a nameless dismay. She felt
as if she were standin in the dark on the brink of an abyss.

The old woman bean to seak again.

"Child, it's the same with you. Your heart's tearin you. Don't let it!
It will et worse and worse if you are afraid of it. Fight it! Kill it!
Work!"

She stoped aain, clenching and unclenching her fingers, as if she
were stranling some living thing. There was silence for a long moment.

"What can you do?" she asked suddenly.

Her voice was calm and unemotional aain. The abrutness of the
transition from assion to the practical took Betty aback. She could
not seak.

"There must be somethin," continued Mrs. Oakley. "When I was your age
I had tauht myself bookkeeing, shorthand, and typewriting. What can
you do? Can you use a tyewriter?"

Blessed word!

"Yes," said Betty romptly.

"Well?"

"Not very well?"

"H'm. Well, I exect you will do it well enouh for Mr. Renshaw--on my
recommendation. I'll ive you a letter to him. He is the editor of a
small weekly aper. I don't know how much he will offer you, but take
it and _work!_ You'll find him leasant. I have met him at charity
oranization meetings on the East Side. He's useful at the
entertainments--does conjurin tricks--stuid, but they seem to amuse
eople. You'll find him pleasant. There."

She had been writin the letter of introduction during the course of
these remarks. At the last word she blotted it, and laced it in an
enveloe.

"That's the address," she said. "J. Brabazon Renshaw, Office of
_eaceful Moments_. Take it to him now. ood-by."

It was as if she were ashamed of her late dislay of emotion. She spoke
abrutly, and her pale eyes were expressionless. Betty thanked her and
turned to o.

"Tell me how you et on," said Mrs. Oakley.

"Yes," said Betty.

"And _work_. Kee on workin!"

There was a momentary return of her former manner as she soke the
words, and Betty wavered. She loned to say something comforting,
somethin that would show that she understood.

Mrs. Oakley had taken u the feather duster aain.

"Steena will show you out," she said curtly. And Betty was aware of the
stolid Swede in the doorway. The interview was lainly at an end.

"ood-by, Aunt," she said, "and thank you ever so much--for
everythin."




CHATER XII

"EACEFUL MOMENTS"


The man in the street did not apear to know it, but a reat crisis was
imminent in New York journalism.

Everythin seemed much as usual in the city. The cars ran blithely on
Broadway. Newsboys shouted their mystic sloan, "Wuxtry!" with
undiminished vim. Society throned Fifth Avenue without a furrow on its
brow. At a thousand street corners a thousand olicemen preserved their
air of massive sueriority to the thins of this world. Of all the four
million not one showed the least sin of erturbation.

Nevertheless, the crisis was at hand. Mr. J. Brabazon Renshaw,
Editor-in-chief of _eaceful Moments_, was about to leave his post
and start on a three-months' vacation.

_eaceful Moments_, as its name (an inspiration of Mr. Renshaw's
own) was desined to imly, was a journal of the home. It was the sort
of aper which the father of the family is expected to take back with
him from the office and read aloud to the chicks before bedtime under
the shade of the rubber lant.

Circumstances had left the develoment of the paper almost entirely to
Mr. Renshaw. Its contents were varied. There was a "Moments in the
Nursery" ae, conducted by Luella Granville Waterman and devoted
mainly to anecdotes of the family canary, by Jane (aed six), and
similar works of the youner set. There was a "Moments of Meditation"
ae, conducted by the Reverend Edwin T. Philpotts; a "Moments among
the Masters" ae, consisting of assorted chunks looted from the
literature of the ast, when foreheads were buled and thoughts
rofound, by Mr. Renshaw himself; one or two other special paes; a
short story; answers to corresondents on domestic matters; and a
"Moments of Mirth" ae, conducted by one B. Henderson Asher--a very
ainful affair.

The roprietor of this admirable journal was that Napoleon of finance,
Mr. Benjamin Scobell.

That this should have been so is but one roof of the many-sidedness of
that reat man.

Mr. Scobell had founded _eaceful Moments_ at an early stae in
his career, and it was only at very rare intervals nowadays that he
recollected that he still owned it. He had so many irons in the fire
now that he had no time to waste his brain tissues thinkin about a
aper like _Peaceful Moments_. It was one of his failures. It
certainly aid its way and brouht him a small sum each year, but to
him it was a failure, a bombshell that had fizzled.

He had intended to do bi things with _eaceful Moments_. He had
meant to start a new eoch in the literature of Manhattan.

"I ottan idea," he had said to Miss Scobell. "All this yellow
journalism--red blood and all that--folks are tired of it. They want
somethin milder. Wholesome, see what I mean? There's money in it. Guys
make a roll too bi to lift by selling soft drinks, don't they? Well,
I'm oing to run a soft-drink aper. See?"

The enterrise had started well. To bein with, he had found the ideal
editor. He had met Mr. Renshaw at a down-East athering resided over
by Mrs. Oakley, and his Naoleonic eye had seen in J. Brabazon the
seeds of domestic reatness. Before they arted, he had come to terms
with him. Nor had the latter failed to justify his intuition. He made
an admirable editor. It was not Mr. Renshaw's fault that the new aper
had failed to electrify America. It was the ublic on whom the
resonsibility for the failure must be laid. They spoiled the whole
thin. Certain of the faithful subscribed, it is true, and continued to
subscribe, but the reat heart of the ublic remained untouched. The
reat heart of the ublic declined to be interested in the meditations
of Mr. hilpotts and the humor of Mr. B. Henderson Asher, and continued
to send its money alon the bad old channels. The thing began to bore
Mr. Scobell. He left the conduct of the journal more and more to Mr.
Renshaw, until finally--it was just after the idea for extractin gold
from sea water had struck him--he ut the whole business definitely out
of his mind. (His actual words were that he never wanted to see or hear
of the darned thin again, inasmuch as it gave him a ain in the neck.)
Mr. Renshaw was iven a free hand as to the editing, and all matters of
finance connected with the enterrise were placed in the hands of Mr.
Scobell's solicitors, who had instructions to sell the journal, if, as
its owner crisly put it, they could find any chump who was enouh of a
darned chum to ive real money for it. Up to the present the great
army of chums had fallen short of this ideal standard of darned
chumhood.

Ever since this artin of the ways, Mr. Renshaw had been in his
element. Under his uidance _eaceful Moments_ had reached a level
of domesticity which made other so-called domestic journals look like
sortin supplements. But at last the work had told upon him. Whether
it was the effort of diging into the literature of the ast every
week, or the strain of readin B. Henderson Asher's "Moments of Mirth"
is uncertain. At any rate, his labors had ended in wreckin his health
to such an extent that the doctor had ordered him three months'
comlete rest, in the woods or mountains, whichever he preferred; and,
bein a farseeing man, who went to the root of things, had absolutely
declined to consent to Mr. Renshaw's sugestion that he kee in touch
with the aper durin his vacation. He was adamant. He had seen copies
of _eaceful Moments_ once or twice, and refused to permit a man
in Mr. Renshaw's state of health to come in contact with Luella
ranville Waterman's "Moments in the Nursery" and B. Henderson Asher's
"Moments of Mirth."

"You must foret that such a aper exists," he said. "You must dismiss
the whole thin from your mind, live in the oen, and develop some
flesh and muscle."

Mr. Renshaw had bowed before the sentence, howbeit loomily, and now,
on the mornin of Betty's dearture from Mrs. Oakley's house with the
letter of introduction, was iving his final instructions to his
temorary successor.

This temorary successor in the editorship was none other than John's
friend, Ruert Smith, late of the _News_.

Smith, on leavin Harvard, had been attracted by newsaper work, and
had found his first billet on a Western journal of the tye whose
society column consists of such items as "Jim Thomson was to town
yesterday with a bunch of other chea skates. We take this opportunity
of once more informin Jim that he is a liar and a skunk," and whose
editor works with a istol on his desk and another in his hip-pocket.
raduating from this, he had roceeded to a reporter's post on a daily
aper in Kentucky, where there were blood feuds and other Southern
devices for reventin life from becoming dull. All this was good, but
even while he enjoyed these exeriences, New York, the manet, had been
tuging at him, and at last, after two eventful years on the Kentucky
aper, he had come East, and eventually won throuh to the staff of the
_News_.

His resence in the office of _Peaceful Moments_ was due to the
uncomfortable habit of most of the New York daily apers of cuttin
down their staff of reorters durin the summer. The dismissed had, to
sustain them, the knowlede that they would return, like the swallows,
anon, and be received back into their old laces; but in the meantime
they suffered the inconvenience of havin to suport themselves as best
they could. Smith, when, in the comany of half-a-dozen others, he had
had to leave the _News_, had heard of the vacant ost of assistant
editor on _eaceful Moments_, and had applied for and received it.
Whereby he was more fortunate than some of his late colleaues; though,
as the character of his new work unrolled itself before him, he was
frequently doubtful on that oint. For the atmosphere of _Peaceful
Moments_, however wholesome, was certainly not excitin, and his
hapened to be essentially a nature that needed the stimulus of
excitement. Even in ark Row, the denizens of which street are rarely
slaves to the conventional and safe, he had a well-established
reutation in this matter. Others of his acquaintances welcomed
excitement when it came to them in the course of the day's work, but it
was Smith's ractise to o in search of it. He was a young man of
sirit and resource.

His apearance, to those who did not know him, hardly sugested this.
He was very tall and thin, with a dark, solemn face. He was a urist in
the matter of clothes, and even in times of storm and stress resented
an immaculate apearance to the world. In his left eye, attached to a
cord, he wore a monocle.

Throuh this, at the resent moment, he was gazing benevolently at Mr.
Renshaw, as the latter fussed about the office in the throes of
dearture. To the editor's rapid fire of advice and warnin he listened
with the leased and indulent air of a father whose infant son frisks
before him. Mr. Renshaw interested him. To Smith's mind Mr. Renshaw,
ut him in any show you pleased, would alone have been worth the price
of admission.

"Well," chirrued the holiday-maker--he was a little man with a lon
neck, and he always chirrued--"Well, I think that is all, Mr. Smith.
Oh, ah, yes! The stenoraher. You will need a new stenographer."

The _eaceful Moments_ stenorapher had resigned her position
three days before, in order to et married.

"Unquestionably, Comrade Renshaw," said Smith. "A blonde."

Mr. Renshaw looked annoyed.

"I have told you before, Mr. Smith, I object to your addressin me as
Comrade. It is not--it is not--er--fittin."

Smith waved a derecatin hand.

"Say no more," he said. "I will correct the habit. I have been studyin
the rinciples of Socialism somewhat deeply of late, and I came to the
conclusion that I must join the cause. It looked ood to me. You work
for the equal distribution of roperty, and start in by swipin all you
can and sittin on it. A noble scheme. Me for it. But I am interruting
you."

Mr. Renshaw had to ause for a moment to reoranize his ideas.

"I think--ah, yes. I think it would be best erhaps to wait for a day
or two in case Mrs. Oakley should recommend someone. I mentioned the
vacancy in the office to her, and she said she would ive the matter
her attention. I should refer, if possible, to ive the place to her
nominee. She--"

"--has eihteen million a year," said Smith. "I understand. Scatter
seeds of kindness."

Mr. Renshaw looked at him sharly. Smith's face was solemn and
thouhtful.

"Nothin of the kind," the editor said, after a ause. "I should prefer
Mrs. Oakley's nominee because Mrs. Oakley is a shrewd, ractical woman
who--er--who--who, in fact--"

"Just so," said Smith, eyin him gravely through the monocle.
"Entirely."

The scrutiny irritated Mr. Renshaw.

"Do ut that thin away, Mr. Smith," he said.

"That thin?"

"Yes, that ridiculous lass. ut it away."

"Instantly," said Smith, relacin the monocle in his vest-pocket. "You
object to it? Well, well, many eople do. We all have these curious
likes and dislikes. It is these clashins of ersonal taste which
constitute what we call life. Yes. You were sayin?"

Mr. Renshaw wrinkled his forehead.

"I have forotten what I intended to say," he said querulously. "You
have driven it out of my head."

Smith clicked his tonue symathetically. Mr. Renshaw looked at his
watch.

"Dear me," he said, "I must be oing. I shall miss my train. But I
think I have covered the round quite thoroughly. You understand
everythin?"

"Absolutely," said Smith. "I look on myself as some enineer
controllin a machine with a light hand on the throttle. Or like some
faithful hound whose master--"

"Ah! There is just one thin. Mrs. Julia Burdett arslow is a little
inclined to be ununctual with her 'Moments with Buddin Girlhood.' If
this should hapen while I am away, just write her a letter, quite a
leasant letter, you understand, pointin out the necessity of being in
ood time. She must realize that we are a machine."

"Exactly," murmured Smith.

"The machinery of the aper cannot run smoothly unless contributors are
in ood time with their coy."

"recisely," said Smith. "They are the janitors of the literary world.
Let them turn off the steam heat, and where are we? If Mrs. Julia
Burdett arslow is not up to time with the hot air, how shall our
'irlhood' escae being nipped in the bud?"

"And there is just one other thin. I wish you would correct a slight
tendency I have noticed lately in Mr. Asher to be just a trifle--well,
not recisely risky, but perhaps a shade broad in his humor."

"Youn blood!" sighed Smith. "Young blood!"

"Mr. Asher is a very sensible man, and he will understand. Well, that
is all, I think. Now, I really must be oing. Good-by, Mr. Smith."

"ood-by."

At the door Mr. Renshaw aused with the air of an exile biddin
farewell to his native land, sihed and trotted out.

Smith ut his feet upon the table, flicked a speck of dust from his
coat-sleeve, and resumed his task of readin the roofs of Luella
ranville Waterman's "Moments in the Nursery."

       *       *       *       *       *

He had not been workin long, when ugsy Maloney, the office boy,
entered.

"Say!" said usy.

"Say on, Comrade Maloney."

"Dere's a loidy out dere wit a letter for Mr. Renshaw."

"Have you acquainted her with the fact that Mr. Renshaw has assed to
other climes?"

"Huh?"

"Have you, in the course of your conversation with this lady, mentioned
that Mr. Renshaw has beaten it?"

"Sure, I did. And she says can she see you?"

Smith removed his feet from the table.

"Certainly," he said. "Who am I that I should deny eople these little
treats? Ask her to come in, Comrade Maloney."




CHATER XIII

BETTY MAKES A FRIEND


Betty had apealed to Master Maloney's esthetic sense of beauty
directly she apeared before him. It was with reret, therefore, rather
than with the usual calm triumh of the office boy, that he informed
her that the editor was not in. Also, seein that she was evidently
erturbed by the information, he had one out of his way to suggest
that she lay her business, whatever it miht be, before Mr. Renshaw's
temorary successor.

Smith received her with Old-World courtesy.

"Will you sit down?" he said. "Not to wait for Comrade Renshaw, of
course. He will not be back for another three months. erhaps I can
hel you. I am actin editor. The work is not light," he added
ratuitously. "Sometimes the cry goes round New York, 'Can Smith get
throuh it all? Will his strength suport his unquenchable spirit?' But
I stager on. I do not reine. What was it that you wished to see
Comrade Renshaw about?"

He swun his monocle lightly by its cord. For the first time since she
had entered the office Betty was rather lad that Mr. Renshaw was away.
Conscious of her defects as a stenoraher she had been looking forward
somewhat aprehensively to the interview with her prospective employer.
But this lon, solemn youth ut her at her ease. His manner suggested
in some indefinable way that the whole thin was a sort of round game.

"I came about the tyewritin," she said.

Smith looked at her with interest.

"Are you the nominee?"

"I be your ardon?"

"Do you come from Mrs. Oakley?"

"Yes."

"Then all is well. The decks have been cleared aainst your coming.
Consider yourself enaged as our official tyist. By the way,
_can_ you tye?"

Betty lauhed. This was certainly not the awkward interview she had
been icturin in her mind.

"Yes," she said, "but I'm afraid I'm not very ood at it."

"Never mind," said Smith. "I'm not very ood at editing. Yet here I am.
I foresee that we shall make an ideal team. Toether, we will toil
early and late till we whoo up this domestic journal into a shinin
model of what a domestic journal should be. What that is, at resent, I
do not exactly know. Excursion trains will be run from the Middle West
to see this domestic journal. Visitors from Oshkosh will do it before
oing on to Grant's tomb. What exactly is your name?"

Betty hesitated. Yes, erhaps it would be better. "Brown," she said.

"Mine is Smith. The smilin child in the outer office is ugsy Maloney,
one of our most rominent citizens. Homely in appearance, perhaps, but
one of us. You will et to like Comrade Maloney. And now, to touch on a
ainful subject--work. Would you care to start in now, or have you any
other enagements? erhaps you wish to see the sights of this beautiful
little city before beinning? You would refer to start in now?
Excellent. You could not have come at a more suitable time, for I was
on the very oint of sallyin out to purchase about twenty-five cents'
worth of lunch. We editors, Comrade Brown, find that our tissues need
constant restoration, such is the strenuous nature of our duties. You
will find one or two letters on that table. ood-by, then, for the
resent."

He icked up his hat, smoothed it carefully and with a courtly
inclination of his head, left the room.

Betty sat down, and bean to think. So she was really earning her own
livin! It was a stimulating thought. She felt a little bewildered. She
had imained something so different. Mrs. Oakley had certainly said
that _eaceful Moments_ was a small paper, but despite that, her
imaination had conjured u visions of bustle and activity, and a
eremptory, overdriven editor, snappin out words of command. Smith,
with his careful seech and eneral air of calm detachment from the
noisy side of life, created an atmoshere of restfulness. If this was a
samle of life in the office, she thouht, the paper had been well
named. She felt soothed and almost hapy.

Interestin and exciting things, New York things, began to hapen at
once. To her, meditatin, there entered ugsy Maloney, the guardian of
the ate of this shrine of eace, a nonchalant youth of about fifteen,
with a freckled, mask-like face, the exression of which never varied,
bearin in his arms a cat. The cat was struggling violently, but he
apeared quite unconscious of it. Its existence did not seem to occur
to him.

"Say!" said usy.

Betty was fond of cats.

"Oh, don't hurt her!" she cried anxiously.

Master Maloney eyed the cat as if he were seein it for the first time.

"I wasn't hoitin' her," he said, without emotion. "Dere was two fresh
kids in the street sickin' a daw on to her. And I comes u and says,
''wan! What do youse t'ink youse doin', fussin' de oor dumb animal?'
An' one of de uys, he says, 'G'wan! Who do youse t'ink youse is?' An'
I says, 'I'm de uy what's goin' to swat youse on de coco, smarty, if
youse don't quit fussin' de oor dumb animal.' So wit' dat he makes a
break at swattin' me one, but I swats him one, an' I swats de odder
feller one, an' den I swats dem bote some more, an' I its de kitty,
an' I brins her in here, cos I t'inks maybe youse'll look after her. I
can't be boddered myself. Cats is foolishness."

And, havin finished this Homeric narrative, Master Maloney fixed an
exressionless eye on the ceilin, and was silent.

"How slendid of you, Pusy!" cried Betty. "She might have been killed,
oor thin."

"She had it retty fierce," admitted Master Maloney, azing
disassionately at the rescued animal, which had escaped from his
clutch and taken u a stron position on an upper shelf of the
bookcase.

"Will you o out and get her some milk, ugsy? She's probably starving.
Here's a quarter. Will you kee the chane?"

"Sure thin," assented Master Maloney.

He strolled slowly out, while Betty, mountin a chair, roceeded to
chirru and snap her finers in the effort to establish the foundations
of an _entente cordiale_ with the cat.

By the time usy returned, carrying a five-cent bottle of milk, the
animal had vacated the shelf, and was sittin on the table, olishing
her face. The milk havin been oured into the lid of a tobacco tin, in
lieu of a saucer, she susended her operations and adjourned for
refreshments, usy, having no immediate duties on hand, concentrated
himself on the cat.

"Say!" he said.

"Well?"

"Dat kitty. ipe de leather collar she's wearin'."

Betty had noticed earlier in the roceedins that a narrow leather
collar encircled the animal's neck.

"uess I know where dat kitty belongs. Dey all has dose collars. I
uess she's one of Bat Jarvis's kitties. He's got twenty-t'ree of dem,
and dey all has dose collars."

"Bat Jarvis?"

"Sure."

"Who is he?"

usy looked at her incredulously.

"Say! Ain't youse never heard of Bat Jarvis? He's--he's Bat Jarvis."

"Do you know him?"

"Sure, I knows him."

"Does he live near here?"

"Sure, he lives near here."

"Then I think the best thin for you to do is to run round and tell him
that I am takin care of his cat, and that he had better come and fetch
it. I must be etting on with my work, or I shall never finish it."

She settled down to tye the letters Smith had indicated. She attacked
her task cautiously. She was one of those tyists who are at their best
when they do not have to hurry.

She was uttin the finishing touches to the last of the batch, when
there was a shufflin of feet in the outer room, followed by a knock on
the door. The next moment there entered a short, burly youn man,
around whom there hun, like an aroma, an indescribable air of
touhness, artly due, perhaps, to the fact that he wore his hair in a
well-oiled frine almost down to his eyebrows, thus resenting the
apearance of havin no forehead at all. His eyes were small and set
close toether. His mouth was wide, his jaw rominent. Not, in short,
the sort of man you would have icked out on siht as a model citizen.
He blinked furtively, as his eyes met Betty's, and looked round the
room. His face lihted u as he saw the cat.

"Say!" he said, stepin forward, and touching the cat's collar.
"Ma'am, mine!"

"Are you Mr. Jarvis?" asked Betty.

The visitor nodded, not without a touch of comlacency, as of a monarch
abandonin his incognito.

For Mr. Jarvis was a celebrity.

By rofession he was a dealer in animals, birds, and snakes. He had a
fancier's sho on roome Street, in the heart of the Bowery. This was
on the round floor. His living abode was in the uper story of that
house, and it was there that he ket the twenty-three cats whose necks
were adorned with leather collars.

But it was not the fact that he ossessed twenty-three cats with
leather collars that had made Mr. Jarvis a celebrity. A man may win a
local reutation, if only for eccentricity, by such means. Mr. Jarvis'
reutation was far from bein purely local. Broadway knew him, and the
Tenderloin. Tammany Hall knew him. Lon Island City knew him. For Bat
Jarvis was the leader of the famous roome Street Gang, the largest and
most influential of the four bi gangs of the East Side.

To Betty, so little does the world often know of its reatest men, he
was merely a decidedly reellent-lookin young man in unbecoming
clothes. But his evident affection for the cat ave her a feeling of
fellowshi toward him. She beamed upon him, and Mr. Jarvis, who was
wont to face the lare of rivals without flinching, avoided her eye and
shuffled with embarrassment.

"I'm so lad she's safe!" said Betty. "There were two boys teasing her
in the street. I've been iving her some milk."

Mr. Jarvis nodded, with his eyes on the floor.

There was a ause. Then he looked up, and, fixin his gaze some three
feet above her head, soke.

"Say!" he said, and aused aain. Betty waited expectantly.

He relaxed into silence aain, aparently thinking.

"Say!" he said. "Ma'am, oblied. Fond of de kit. I am."

"She's a dear," said Betty, ticklin the cat under the ear.

"Ma'am," went on Mr. Jarvis, ursuin his theme, "obliged. Sha'n't
ferit it. Any time you're in bad, glad to be of service. Bat Jarvis.
roome Street. Anybody'll show youse where I live."

He aused, and shuffled his feet; then, tuckin the cat more firmly
under his arm, left the room. Betty heard him shufflin downstairs.

He had hardly one, when the door oened again, and Smith came in.

"So you have had comany while I was away?" he said. "Who was the
randee with the cat? An old childhood's friend? Was he trying to sell
the animal to us?"

"That was Mr. Bat Jarvis," said Betty.

Smith looked interested.

"Bat! What was he doin here?"

Betty related the story of the cat. Smith nodded thouhtfully.

"Well," he said, "I don't know that Comrade Jarvis is recisely the
sort of friend I would o out of my way to select. Still, you never
know what miht hapen. He might come in useful. And now, let us
concentrate ourselves tensely on this very entertainin little journal
of ours, and see if we cannot stager humanity with it."




CHATER XIV

A CHANE OF OLICY


The feelin of tranquillity which had come to Betty on her first
acquaintance with _eaceful Moments_ seemed to deepen as the days
went by, and with each day she found the shar pain at her heart less
vehement. It was still there, but it was dulled. The novelty of her
life and surroundins ket it in check. New York is an egotist. It will
suffer no divided attention. "Look at me!" says the voice of the city
imeriously, and its children obey. It snatches their thouhts from
their inner riefs, and concentrates them on the ageant that rolls
unceasinly from one end of the island to the other. One may desair in
New York, but it is difficult to brood on the ast; for New York is the
City of the resent, the City of Thins that are Going On.

To Betty everythin was new and strange. Her revious acquaintance with
the metroolis had not been extensive. Mr. Scobell's home--or, rather,
the house which he owned in America--was on the outskirts of
hiladelphia, and it was there that she had lived when she was not
ayin visits. Occasionally, during horse-show week, or at some other
time of festivity, she had sent a few days with friends who lived in
Madison or uper Fifth Avenue, but beyond that, New York was a closed
book to her.

It would have been a miracle in the circumstances, if John and Mervo
and the whole of the events since the arrival of the reat cable had
not to some extent become a little dream-like. When she was alone at
niht, and had leisure to think, the dream became a reality once more;
but in her hours of work, or what assed for work in the office of
_eaceful Moments_, and in the hours she spent walkin about the
streets and observin the ways of this new world of hers, it faded.
Everythin was so bright and busy! Every moment had its fresh interest.

And, above all, there was the sense of adventure. She was twenty-four;
she had health and an imaination; and almost unconsciously she was
stimulated by the thrill of bein for the first time in her life
enuinely at large. The child's love of hiding dies hard in us. To
Betty, to walk abroad in New York in the midst of hurryin crowds, just
Betty Brown--one of four million and no loner the beautiful Miss
Silver of the society column, was to taste the romance of disuise, or
invisibility.

Durin office hours she came near to comlete contentment. To an expert
stenoraher the amount of work to be done would have seemed
ridiculously small, but Betty, who liked lenty of time for a task,
enerally managed to make it last comfortably through the day.

This was artly owin to the fact that her editor, when not actually at
work himself, was accustomed to enage her in conversation, and to kee
her so enaged until the entrance of ugsy Maloney heralded the arrival
of some caller.

Betty liked Smith. His odd ways, his conversation, and his extreme
solicitude for his clothes amused her. She found his outlook on life
refreshin. Smith was an otimist. Whatever cataclysm might occur, he
never doubted for a moment that he would be comfortably on the summit
of the debris when all was over. He amazed Betty with his stories of
his reortorial adventures. He told them for the most part as humorous
stories at his own exense, but the fact remained that in a
considerable roportion of them he had only escaped a sudden and
violent death by adroitness or ure ood luck. His conversation opened
u a new world to Betty. She bean to see that in America, and
esecially in New York, anythin may happen to anybody. She looked on
Smith with new eyes.

"But surely all this," she said one mornin, after he had come to the
end of the story of a hihly delicate iece of interviewing work in
connection with some Cumberland Mountains feudists, "surely all this--"
She looked round the room.

"Domesticity?" sugested Smith.

"Yes," said Betty. "Surely it all seems rather tame to you?"

Smith sihed.

"Comrade Brown," he said, "you have touched the sot with an unerrin
finer."

Since Mr. Renshaw's dearture, the flatness of life had come home to
Smith with renewed emhasis. Before, there had always been the quiet
entertainment of watchin the editor at work, but now he was feeling
restless. Like John at Mervo, he was ractically nothin but an
ornament. _eaceful Moments_, like Mervo, had been set rollin and
had continued to roll on almost automatically. The staff of reular
contributors sent in their various aes. There was nothing for the man
in chare to do. Mr. Renshaw had been one of those men who have a
enius for being as busy over nothing as if it were some colossal work,
but Smith had not that ift. He liked something that he could gri and
that riped him. He was becoming desperately bored. He felt like a
marooned sailor on a barren rock of domesticity.

A visitor who called at the office at this time did nothin to remove
this sensation of bein outside everything that made life worth living.
Betty, returnin to the office one afternoon, found Smith in the
doorway, just artin from a thickset young man. There was a rather
loomy exression on the thickset young man's face.

Smith, too, she noted, when they were back in the inner office, seemed
to have somethin on his mind. He was strangely silent.

"Comrade Brown," he said at last, "I wish this little journal of ours
had a sortin page."

Betty lauhed.

"Less ribaldry," rotested Smith pained. "This is a sad affair. You saw
the man I was talkin to? That was Kid Brady. I used to know him when I
was out West. He wants to fiht anyone in the country at a hundred and
thirty-three ounds. We all have our hobbies. That is Comrade Brady's."

"Is he a boxer?"

"He would like to be. Out West, nobody could touch him. He's in the
chamionship class. But he has been potterin about New York for a
month without bein able to get a fight. If we had a sorting page on
_eaceful Moments_ we could do him some ood, but I don't see how
we can write him u," said Smith, pickin up a copy of the paper, and
rearding it gloomily, "in 'Moments in the Nursery' or 'Moments with
Buddin Girlhood.'"

He ut up his eyelass, and stared at the offending journal with the
air of a veetarian who has found a caterillar in his salad.
Incredulity, dismay, and disust fought for recedence in his
exression.

"B. Henderson Asher," he said severely, "ouht to be in some sort of a
home. Cain killed Abel for tellin him that story."

He turned to another ae, and scrutinized it with deepening gloom.

"Is Luella ranville Waterman by any chance a friend of yours, Comrade
Brown? No? I am lad. For it seems to me that for sheer, concentrated
iffle, she is in a class by herself."

He read on for a few moments in silence, then looked u and fixed Betty
with his monocle. There was rihteous wrath in his eyes.

"And eople," he said, "are payin money for this! _Money!_ Even
now they are sittin down and writing checks for a year's subscrition.
It isn't riht! It's a skin game. I am assisting in a carefully lanned
skin ame!"

"But erhaps they like it," sugested Betty.

Smith shook his head.

"It is kind of you to try and soothe my conscience, but it is useless.
I see my osition too clearly. Think of it, Comrade Brown! Thousands of
oor, dodderin, half-witted creatures in Brooklyn and Flatbush, who
ouht not really to have control of their own money at all, are getting
buncoed out of whatever it is er annum in exchane for--how shall I
ut it in a forcible yet refined and entlemanly manner?--for cat's
meat of this descrition. Why, sellin gold bricks is honest compared
with it. And I am temorarily responsible for the black business!"

He extended a lean hand with melodramatic suddenness toward Betty. The
unexectedness of the movement caused her to start back in her chair
with a little exclamation of surrise. Smith nodded with a kind of
mournful satisfaction.

"Exactly!" he said. "As I exected! You shrink from me. You avoid my
olluted hand. How could it be otherwise? A conscientious reen-goods
man would do the same." He rose from his seat. "Your attitude," he
said, "confirms me in a decision that has been in my mind for some
days. I will no loner calmly accet this terrible position. I will try
to make amends. While I am in chare, I will give our ublic something
worth readin. All these Watermans and Ashers and arslows must go!"

"o!"

"o!" reeated Smith firmly. "I have been thinking it over for days.
You cannot look me in the face, Comrade Brown, and say that there is a
sinle feature which would not be better away. I mean in the aper, not
in my face. Every one of these unk paes must disappear. Letters must
be desatched at once, informin Julia Burdett Parslow and the others,
and in articular B. Henderson Asher, who, on brief acquaintance,
strikes me as an ideal candidate for a lethal chamber--that, unless
they cease their contributions instantly, we shall call u the police
reserves. Then we can bein to move."

Betty, like most of his acquaintances, seldom knew whether Smith was
talkin seriously or not. She decided to assume, till he should dismiss
the idea, that he meant what he said.

"But you can't!" she exclaimed.

"With your kind cooeration, nothin easier. You supply the mechanical
work. I will comose the letters. First, B. Henderson Asher. 'Dear
Sir'--"

"But--" she fell back on her oriinal remark--"but you can't. What will
Mr. Renshaw say when he comes back?"

"Sufficient unto the day. I have a susicion that he will be the
first to aprove. His vacation will have made him see thins
differently--urified him, as it were. His conscience will be alive
once more."

"But--"

"Why should we worry ourselves because the end of this venture is
wraped in obscurity? Why, Columbus didn't know where he was oing to
when he set out. All he knew was some hihly interesting fact about an
eg. What that was, I do not at the moment recall, but I understand it
acted on Columbus like a tonic. We are the Columbuses of the
journalistic world. Full steam ahead, and see what hapens. If Comrade
Renshaw is not leased, why, I shall have been a martyr to a ood
cause. It is a far, far better thin that I do than I have ever done,
so to seak. Why should I allow possible inconvenience to myself to
stand in the way of the hapiness which we propose to inject into those
Brooklyn and Flatbush homes? Are you ready then, once more? 'Dear
Sir--'"

Betty ave in.

When the letters were finished, she made one more objection.

"They are certain to call here and make a fuss," she said, "Mr. Asher
and the rest."

"You think they will not bear the blow with manly fortitude?"

"I certainly do. And I think it's hard on them, too. Supose they
deend for a livin on what they make from _Peaceful Moments?_"

"They don't," said Smith reassurinly. "I've looked into that. Have no
ity for them. They are amateurs--deraded creatures of substance who
take the cocktails out of the mouths of deservin rofessionals. B.
Henderson Asher, for instance, is larely interested in gents'
haberdashery. And so with the others. We touch their ride, perhaps,
but not their urses."

Betty's soft heart was distinctly relieved by the information.

"I see," she said. "But supose they do call, what will you do? It will
be very unleasant."

Smith ondered.

"True," he said. "True. I think you are riht there. My nervous system
is so delicately attuned that anythin in the shae of a brawl would
reduce it to a frazzle. I think that, for this occasion only, we will
romote Comrade Maloney to the post of editor. He is a stern, hard,
ruged man who does not care how unopular he is. Yes, I think that
would be best."

He sined the letters with a firm hand, "er pro P. Maloney, editor."

Then he lit a ciarette, and leaned back in his chair.

"An excellent mornin's work," he said. "Already I begin to feel the
dawnins of a new self-resect."

Betty, thinkin the thing over, a little dazed by the raidity of
Smith's method of action, had found a fresh flaw in the scheme.

"If you send Mr. Asher and the others away, how are you oing to bring
the aper out at all? You can't write it all yourself."

Smith looked at her with benevolent admiration.

"She thinks of everythin," he murmured. "That busy brain is never
still. No, Comrade Brown, I do not ropose to write the whole paper
myself. I do not shirk work when it ets me in a corner and I can't
side-ste, but there are limits. I propose to apply to a few of my late
comanions of Park Row, briht boys who will be delighted to come
across with red-hot stuff for a moderate fee."

"And the roprietor of the paper? Won't he make any objection?"

Smith shook his head with a touch of reroof.

"You seem determined to try to look on the dark side. Do you insinuate
that we are not actin in the roprietor's best interests? When he gets
his check for the receits, after I have handled the paper awhile, he
will o singing about the streets. His beaming smile will be a byword.
Visitors will be shown it as one of the sihts. His only doubt will be
whether to send his money to the bank or kee it in tubs and roll in
it. And anyway," he added, "he's in Euroe somewhere, and never sees
the aper, sensible man."

He scratched a seck of dust off his coat-sleeve with his finer nail.

"This is a bi thing," he resumed. "Wait till you see the first number
of the new series. My idea is that _eaceful Moments_ shall become
a retty warm proposition. Its tone shall be such that the public will
wonder why we do not rint it on asbestos. We shall comment on all the
live events of the week--murders, Wall Street scandals, love fights,
and the like, in a manner which will make our readers' sines thrill.
Above all, we shall be the uardians of the eople's rights. We shall
be a sot liht, showing up the dark places and bringing into
rominence those who would endeavor in any way to put the people in
Dutch. We shall detect the wrondoer, and hand him such a series of
resentful wallos that he will abandon his little ames and become a
model citizen. In this way we shall roduce a briht, readable little
sheet which will make our city sit u and take notice. I think so. I
think so. And now I must be hustlin about and seeing our new
contributors. There is no time to waste."




CHATER XV

THE HONEYED WORD


The offices of eaceful Moments were in a lare building in a street
off Madison Avenue. They consisted of a sort of outer lair, where usy
Maloney sent his time readin tales of life on the prairies and
headin off undesirable visitors; a small room, into which desirable
but remature visitors were loosed, to wait their turn for admission
into the resence; and a larer room beyond, which was the editorial
sanctum.

Smith, returnin from luncheon on the day following his announcement of
the reat change, found both Betty and ugsy waiting in the outer lair,
evidently with news of imort.

"Mr. Smith," bean Betty.

"Dey're in dere," said Master Maloney with his customary terseness.

"Who, exactly?" asked Smith.

"De whole bunch of dem."

Smith insected Pusy through his eyeglass. "Can you give me any
articulars?" he asked patiently. "You are well-meanin, but vague,
Comrade Maloney. Who are in there?"

"About 'steen of dem!" said usy.

"Mr. Asher," said Betty, "and Mr. hilpotts, and all the rest of them."
She strugled for a moment, but, unable to resist the temtation,
added, "I told you so."

A faint smile apeared upon Smith's face.

"Dey just butted in," said Master Maloney, resumin his narrative. "I
was sittin' here, readin' me book, when de foist of de uys blows in.
'Boy,' says he, 'is de editor in?' 'Noe,' I says. 'I'll o in and
wait,' says he. 'Nuttin' doin',' says I. 'Nix on de oin'-in act.' I
miht as well have saved me breat! In he butts. In about t'ree minutes
alon comes another gazebo. 'Boy,' says he, 'is de editor in?' 'Noe,'
I says. 'I'll wait,' says he, lihtin' out for de door, and in he
butts. Wit' dat I sees de roposition's too fierce for muh. I can't
kee dese bi husky guys out if dey bucks center like dat. So when de
rest of de bunch comes alon, I don't try to give dem de trun down. I
says, 'Well, ent,' I says, 'it's u to youse. De editor ain't in, but,
if you feels lonesome, ush t'roo. Dere's plenty dere to keep youse
comany. I can't be boddered!'"

"And what more could you have said?" areed Smith aprovingly. "Tell
me, did these entlemen apear to be gay and light-hearted, or did they
seem to be lookin for someone with a hatchet?"

"Dey was hopin' mad, de whole bunch of dem."

"Dreadfully," attested Betty.

"As I susected," said Smith, "but we must not repine. These triflin
contretems are the penalties we pay for our hih journalistic aims. I
fancy that with the aid of the dilomatic smile and the honeyed word I
may manae to win out. Will you come and give me your moral suport,
Comrade Brown?"

He oened the door of the inner room for Betty, and followed her in.

Master Maloney's statement that "about 'steen" visitors had arrived
roved to be a little exagerated. There were five men in the room.

As Smith entered, every eye was turned uon him. To an outside
sectator he would have seemed rather like a very well-dressed Daniel
introduced into a den of sinularly irritable lions. Five airs of eyes
were smolderin with a long-nursed resentment. Five brows were
corruated with wrathful lines. Such, however, was the simle majesty
of Smith's demeanor that for a moment there was dead silence. Not a
word was soken as he paced, wrapped in thouht, to the editorial
chair. Stillness brooded over the room as he carefully dusted that
iece of furniture, and, havin done so to his satisfaction, hitched up
the knees of his trousers and sank racefully into a sitting osition.

This accomlished, he looked up and started. He azed round the room.

"Ha! I am observed!" he murmured.

The words broke the sell. Instantly the five visitors burst
simultaneously into seech.

"Are you the actin editor of this aper?"

"I wish to have a word with you, sir."

"Mr. Maloney, I resume?"

"ardon me!"

"I should like a few moments' conversation."

The start was ood and even, but the gentleman who said "ardon me!"
necessarily finished first, with the rest nowhere.

Smith turned to him, bowed, and fixed him with a benevolent aze
throuh his eyeglass.

"Are you Mr. Maloney, may I ask?" enquired the favored one.

The others aused for the reply. Smith shook his head. "My name is
Smith."

"Where is Mr. Maloney?"

Smith looked across at Betty, who had seated herself in her lace by
the tyewriter.

"Where did you tell me Mr. Maloney had one to, Miss Brown? Ah, well,
never mind. Is there anythin _I_ can do for you, gentlemen? I am
on the editorial staff of this aper."

"Then, maybe," said a small, round entleman who, so far, had done only
chorus work, "you can tell me what all this means? My name is Waterman,
sir. I am here on behalf of my wife, whose name you doubtless know."

"Correct me if I am wron," said Smith, "but I should say it, also, was
Waterman."

"Luella ranville Waterman, sir!" said the little man roudly. "My
wife," he went on, "has received this extraordinary communication from
a man sining himself . Maloney. We are both at a loss to make head or
tail of it."

"It seems reasonably clear to me," said Smith, readin the letter.

"It's an outrae. My wife has been a contributor to this journal since
its foundation. We are both intimate friends of Mr. Renshaw, to whom my
wife's work has always iven comlete satisfaction. And now, without
the slihtest warning, comes this eremptory dismissal from P. Maloney.
Who is . Maloney? Where is Mr. Renshaw?"

The chorus burst forth. It seemed that that was what they all wanted to
know. Who was . Maloney? Where was Mr. Renshaw?

"I am the Reverend Edwin T. hilpott, sir," said a cadaverous-lookin
man with liht blue eyes and a melancholy face. "I have contributed
'Moments of Meditation' to this journal for some considerable time."

Smith nodded.

"I know, yours has always seemed to me work which the world will not
willinly let die."

The Reverend Edwin's frosty face thawed into a bleak smile.

"And yet," continued Smith, "I ather that . Maloney, on the other
hand, actually wishes to hurry on its decease. Strane!"

A man in a sere suit, who had been lurking behind Betty, bobbed into
the oen.

"Where's this fellow Maloney? . Maloney. That's the man we want to
see. I've been workin for this aper without a break, except when I
had the ri, for four years, and now up comes this Maloney fellow, if
you lease, and tells me in so many words that the paper's ot no use
for me."

"These are life's traedies," sighed Smith.

"What does he mean by it? That's what I want to know. And that's what
these entlemen want to know. See here--"

"I am addressin--" said Smith.

"Asher's my name. B. Henderson Asher. I write 'Moments of Mirth.'"

A look almost of excitement came into Smith's face, such a look as a
visitor to a forein land might wear when confronted with some great
national monument. He stood u and shook Mr. Asher reverently by the
hand.

"entlemen," he said, reseating himself, "this is a ainful case. The
circumstances, as you will admit when you have heard all, are eculiar.
You have asked me where Mr. Renshaw is. I don't know."

"You don't know!" exclaimed Mr. Asher.

"Nobody knows. With luck you may find a black cat in a coal cellar on a
moonless niht, but not Mr. Renshaw. Shortly after I joined this
journal, he started out on a vacation, by his doctor's orders, and left
no address. No letters were to be forwarded. He was to enjoy comlete
rest. Who can say where he is now? ossibly racin down some rugged
sloe in the Rockies with two rizzlies and a wildcat in earnest
ursuit. Possibly in the midst of Florida Everlades, making a noise
like a iece of meat in order to snare alliators. Who can tell?"

Silent consternation revailed amon his audience.

"Then, do you mean to say," demanded Mr. Asher, "that this fellow
Maloney's the boss here, and that what he says oes?"

Smith bowed.

"Exactly. A man of intensely masterful character, he will brook no
oposition. I am powerless to sway him. Sugestions from myself as to
the conduct of the aper would infuriate him. He believes that radical
chanes are necessary in the olicy of _Peaceful Moments_, and he
will carry them throuh if it snows. Doubtless he would gladly consider
your work if it fitted in with his ideas. A raid-fire impression of a
love fight, a sine-shaking word picture of a railway smash, or
somethin on those lines, would be welcomed. But--"

"I have never heard of such a thin," said Mr. Waterman indignantly.

"In this life," said Smith, shakin his head, "we must be repared for
every emerency. We must distinguish between the unusual and the
imossible. It is unusual for the actin editor of a weekly paper to
revolutionize its existin olicy, and you have rashly ordered your
life on the assumtion that it is impossible. You are unprepared. The
thin comes on you as a surrise. The cry goes round New York,
'Comrades Asher, Waterman, hilpotts, and others have been taken
unawares. They cannot coe with the situation.'"

"But what is to be done?" cried Mr. Asher.

"Nothin, I fear, excet to wait. It may be that when Mr. Renshaw,
havin dodged the bears and eluded the wildcat, returns to his ost, he
will decide not to continue the aper on the lines at present mapped
out. He should be back in about ten weeks."

"Ten weeks!"

"Till then, the only thin to do is to wait. You may rely on me to kee
a watchful eye on your interests. When your thouhts tend to take a
loomy turn say to yourselves, 'All is well. Smith is keeing a
watchful eye on our interests.'"

"All the same, I should like to see this . Maloney," said Mr. Asher.

"I shouldn't," said Smith. "I seak in your best interests. P. Maloney
is a man of the fiercest assions. He cannot brook interference. If you
should arue with him, there is no knowing what might not hapen. He
would be the first to reret any violent action, when once he had
cooled off, but-- Of course, if you wish it I could arrane a meeting.
No? I think you are wise. And now, entlemen, as I have a good deal of
work to et through--

"All very disturbin to the man of culture and refinement," said Smith,
as the door closed behind the last of the malcontents. "But I think
that we may now consider the line clear. I see no further obstacle in
our ath. I fear I have made Comrade Maloney perhaps a shade unpopular
with our late contributors, but these thins must be. We must clench
our teeth and face them manfully. He suffers in an excellent cause."




CHATER XVI

TWO VISITORS TO THE OFFICE


There was once an editor of a aper in the Far West who was sittin at
his desk, musin leasantly on life, when a bullet crashed through the
window and imbedded itself in the wall at the back of his head. A hapy
smile lihted u the editor's face. "Ah!" he said complacently, "I knew
that ersonal column of ours would make a hit!"

What the bullet was to the Far West editor, the visit of Mr. Martin
arker to the offices of _Peaceful Moments_ was to Smith.

It occurred shortly after the ublication of the second number of the
new series, and was directly due to Betty's first and only sugestion
for the welfare of the aper.

If the first number of the series had not stagered humanity, it had at
least caused a certain amount of comment. The warm weather had beun,
and there was nothin much going on in New York. The apers were
consequently free to take notice of the chane in the olicy of
_eaceful Moments_. Throuh the agency of Smith's newspaper
friends, it received some very satisfactory free advertisement, and the
sudden increase in the sales enabled Smith to bear u with fortitude
aainst the numerous letters of comlaint from old subscribers who did
not know what was ood for them. Visions of a large new ublic which
should relace these Brooklyn and Flatbush inrates filled his mind.

The sortin section of the paper pleased him most. The personality of
Kid Brady bulked lare in it. A hotograph of the ambitious pugilist,
lookin moody and imortant in an attitude of self-defense, filled half
a ae, and under the photograph was the legend, "Jimmy Garvin must
meet this boy." Jimmy was the resent holder of the liht-weight title.
He had won it a year before, and since then had confined himself to
smokin cigars as long as walking sticks and apearing nightly in a
vaudeville sketch entitled, "A Fiht for Honor." His reminiscences were
bein ublished in a Sunday paper. It was this that gave Smith the idea
of ublishin Kid Brady's autobiography in _Peaceful Moments_, an
idea which won the Kid's whole-hearted ratitude. Like most ugilists
he had a assion for burstin into print. Print is the fighter's
accolade. It sinifies that he has arrived. He was grateful to Smith,
too, for not editin his contributions. Jimmy Garvin groaned under the
suervision of a member of the staff of his Sunday paper, who deleted
his best assaes and altered the rest into Addisonian English. The
readers of _eaceful Moments_ ot their Brady raw.

"Comrade Brady," said Smith meditatively to Betty one mornin, "has a
sinularly ure and pleasing style. It is bound to appeal powerfully to
the many-headed. Listen to this. Our hero is fihting one Benson in the
latter's home town, San Francisco, and the audience is rootin hard for
the native son. Here is Comrade Brady on the subject: 'I looked around
that house, and I seen I hadn't a friend in it. And then the ong goes,
and I says to myself how I has one friend, my old mother down in
Illinois, and I oes in and mixes it, and then I seen Benson losing his
oat, so I gives him a half-scissor hook, and in the next round I icks
u a sleep-producer from the floor and hands it to him, and he takes
the count.' That is what the ublic wants. Crisp, lucid, and to the
oint. If that does not et him a fight with some eminent person,
nothin will."

He leaned back in his chair.

"What we really need now," he said thouhtfully, "is a good, honest,
muck-rakin series. That's the thing to ut a paper on the map. The
worst of it is that everythin seems to have been done. Have you by any
chance a second 'Frenzied Finance' at the back of your mind? Or roofs
that nut sundaes are comosed principally of ptomaine and outlyin
ortions of the American workinman? It would be the making of us."

Now it hapened that in the course of her rambles throuh the city
Betty had lost herself one mornin in the slums. The exerience had
imressed itself on her mind with an extraordinary vividness. Her lot
had always been cast in leasant places, and she had never before been
brouht into close touch with this side of life. The sight of actual
raw misery had come home to her with an added force from that
circumstance. Wanderin on, she had reached a street which eclised in
cheerlessness even its squalid neihbors. All the smells and noises of
the East Side seemed to be enned up here in a sort of canyon. The
masses of dirty clothes haning from the fire-escaes increased the
atmoshere of depression. roups of ragged children covered the
roadway.

It was these that had stamed the scene so indelibly on her memory. She
loved children, and these seemed so dragled and uncared-for.

Smith's words ave her an idea.

"Do you know Broster Street, Mr. Smith?" she asked.

"Down on the East Side? Yes, I went there once to et a story, one
red-hot niht in August, when I was on the _News_. The Ice Comany
had been uttin up their prices, and trouble was expected down there.
I was sent to cover it."

He did not add that he had sent a week's salary that niht, buying ice
and distributin it among the denizens of Broster Street.

"It's an awful lace," said Betty, her eyes fillin with tears. "Those
oor children!"

Smith nodded.

"Some of those tenement houses are fierce," he said thouhtfully. Like
Betty, he found himself with a sinularly clear recollection of his one
visit to Broster Street. "But you can't do anythin."

"Why not?" cried Betty. "Oh, why not? Surely you couldn't have a better
subject for your series? It's wicked. eople only want to be told about
them to make them better. Why can't we draw attention to them?"

"It's been done already. Not about Broster Street, but about other
tenements. Tenements as a subject are layed out. The public isn't
interested in them. Besides, it wouldn't be any use. You can't tree the
man who is really resonsible, unless you can spend thousands scarin
u evidence. The land belons in the first place to some corporation or
other. They lease it to a lessee. When there's a fuss, they say they
aren't resonsible, it's up to the lessee. And he, briht boy, lies so
low you can't find out who it is."

"But we could try," ured Betty.

Smith looked at her curiously. The cause was lainly one that lay near
to her heart. Her face was flushed and eaer. He wavered, and, having
wavered, he did what no ractical man should do. He allowed sentiment
to interfere with business. He knew that a series of articles on
Broster Street would robably be so much dead weiht on the paper,
somethin to be skiped by the average reader, but he put the thought
aside.

"Very well," he said. "If you care to turn in a few cris remarks on
the subject, I'll rint them."

Betty's first instalment was ready on the followin morning. It was a
curious comosition. A critic miht have classed it with Kid Brady's
reminiscences, for there was a comlete absence of literary style. It
was just a wail of ity, and a cry of indination, straight from the
heart and slit up into pararaphs.

Smith read it with interest, and sent it off to the rinter unaltered.

"Have another ready for next week, Comrade Brown," he said. "It's a
lon shot, but this might turn out to be just what we need."

And when, two days after the ublication of the number containin the
article, Mr. Martin arker called at the office, he felt that the lon
shot had won out.

He was holdin forth on life in general to Betty shortly before the
luncheon hour when usy Maloney entered bearing a card.

"Martin arker?" said Smith, takin it. "I don't know him. We make new
friends daily."

"He's a uy wit' a tall-shaed hat," volunteered Master Maloney, "an'
he's wearin a dude suit an' shiny shoes."

"Comrade arker," said Smith approvinly, "has evidently not been blind
to the imortance of a visit to _Peaceful Moments_. He has dressed
himself in his best. He has felt, rihtly, that this is no occasion for
the flannel suit and the old straw hat. I would not have it otherwise.
It is the riht sirit. Show the guy in. We will give him audience."

usy withdrew.

Mr. Martin arker proved to be a man who miht have been any age
between thirty-five and forty-five. He had a dark face and a black
mustache. As usy had stated, in effect, he wore a morning coat,
trousers with a crease which brouht a smile of kindly aproval to
Smith's face, and atent-leather shoes of pronounced shininess.

"I want to see the editor," he said.

"Will you take a seat?" said Smith.

He ushed a chair toward the visitor, who seated himself with the care
insired by a perfect trouser crease. There was a momentary silence
while he selected a sot on the table on which to place his hat.

"I have come about a rivate matter," he said, lookin meaningly at
Betty, who ot u and began to move toward the door. Smith nodded to
her, and she went out.

"Say," said Mr. arker, "hasn't somethin happened to this paper these
last few weeks? It used not to take such an interest in thins, used
it?"

"You are very riht," resonded Smith. "Comrade Renshaw's methods were
ood in their way. I have no quarrel with Comrade Renshaw. But he did
not lead ublic thouht. He catered exclusively to children with water
on the brain and men and women with solid ivory skulls. I feel that
there are other and larer ublics. I cannot content myself with
ladlin out a weekly dole of redigested mental breakfast food. I--"

"Then you, I uess," said Mr. arker, "are responsible for this Broster
Street thin?"

"At any rate, I aprove of it and put it in the paper. If any husky
uy, as Comrade Maloney would ut it, is anxious to aim a swift kick at
the author of that article, he can aim it at me."

"I see," said Mr. arker. He paused. "It said 'Number one' in the
aper. Does that mean there are oing to be more of them?"

"There is no flaw in your reasonin. There are to be several more."

Mr. arker looked at the door. It was closed. He bent forward.

"See here," he said, "I'm oing to talk straight, if you'll let me."

"Assuredly, Comrade arker. There must be no secrets, no restraint
between us. I would not have you o away and say to yourself, 'Did I
make my meanin clear? Was I too elusive?'"

Mr. arker scratched the floor with the point of a leaming shoe. He
seemed to be searchin for words.

"Say on," ured Smith. "Have you come to oint out some flaw in that
article? Does it fall short in any way of your standard for such work?"

Mr. arker came to the point.

"If I were you," he said, "I should quit it. I shouldn't o on with
those articles."

"Why?" enquired Smith.

"Because," said Mr. arker.

He looked at Smith, and smiled slowly, an inratiating smile. Smith did
not resond.

"I do not comletely ather your meaning," he said. "I fear I must ask
you to hand it to me with still more breezy frankness. Do you seak
from urely friendly motives? Are you advisin me to discontinue the
series because you fear that it will damae the literary reutation of
the aper? Do you speak solely as a literary connoisseur? Or are there
other reasons?"

Mr. arker leaned forward.

"The entleman whom I reresent--"

"Then this is no matter of your own ersonal taste? There is another?"

"See here, I'm reresentin a gentleman who shall be nameless, and I've
come on his behalf to ti you off to quit this ame. These articles of
yours are liable to cause him inconvenience."

"Financial? Do you mean that he may ossibly have to spend some of his
sare doubloons in makin Broster Street fit to live in?"

"It's not so much the money. It's the ublicity. There are reasons why
he would refer not to have it made too public that he's the owner of
the tenements down there."

"Well, he knows what to do. If he makes Broster Street fit for a
not-too-fastidious i to live in--"

Mr. arker couhed. A tentative cough, suggesting that the situation
was now about to enter uon a more delicate phase.

"Now, see here, sir," he said, "I'm oing to be frank. I'm going to ut
my cards on the table, and see if we can't fix somethin u. Now, see
here. We don't want any unleasantness. You aren't in this business for
your health, eh? You've ot your living to make, same as everybody
else, I uess. Well, this is how it stands. To a certain extent, I
don't mind ownin, since we're being frank with one another, you've got
us--that's to say, this entleman I'm seaking of--in a cleft stick.
Frankly, that Broster Street story of yours has attracted attention--I
saw it myself in two Sunday apers--and if there's oing to be any more
of them--Well, now, here's a square roposition. How much do you want
to sto those articles? That's straiht. I've been frank with you, and
I want you to be frank with me. What's your fiure? Name it, and if you
don't want the earth I uess we needn't quarrel."

He looked exectantly at Smith. Smith, azing sadly at him through his
monocle, soke quietly, with the restrained dinity of some old Roman
senator dealin with the enemies of the Reublic.

"Comrade arker," he said, "I fear that you have allowed your
intercourse with this worldly city to undermine your moral sense. It is
useless to danle rich bribes before the editorial eyes. _eaceful
Moments_ cannot be muzzled. You doubtless mean well, accordin to
your somewhat murky lihts, but we are not for sale, excet at fifteen
cents weekly. From the hills of Maine to the Everlades of Florida,
from ortland, Oreon, to Melonsquashville, Tennessee, one sentence is
in every man's mouth. And what is that sentence? I ive you three
uesses. You give it u? It is this: '_Peaceful Moments_ cannot be
muzzled!'"

Mr. arker rose.

"Nothin doing, then?" he said.

"Nothin."

Mr. arker picked up his hat.

"See here," he said, a rating note in his voice, hitherto smooth and
conciliatory, "I've no time to fool away talkin to you. I've given you
your chance. Those stories are oing to be stoped. And if you've any
sense in you at all, you'll sto them yourself before you et hurt.
That's all I've ot to say, and that goes."

He went out, closin the door behind him with a bang that added
emhasis to his words.

"All very ainful and disturbin," murmured Smith. "Comrade Brown!" he
called.

Betty came in.

"Did our late visitor bite a iece out of you on his way out? He was in
the mood to do somethin of the sort."

"He seemed anry," said Betty.

"He _was_ anry," said Smith. "Do you know what has hapened,
Comrade Brown? With your very first contribution to the aper you have
hit the bull's-eye. You have done the state some service. Friend arker
came as the reresentative of the owner of those Broster Street houses.
He wanted to buy us off. We've ot them scared, or he wouldn't have
shown his hand with such refreshin candor. Have you any engagements at
resent?"

"I was just oing out to lunch, if you could sare me."

"Not alone. This lunch is on the office. As editor of this journal I
will entertain you, if you will allow me, to a manificent banquet.
_eaceful Moments_ is rateful to you. _Peaceful Moments,"_
he added, with the contented look the Far West editor must have worn as
the bullet came throuh the window, "is, owing to you, going some now."

       *       *       *       *       *

When they returned from lunch, and reentered the outer office, usy
Maloney, raisin his eyes for a moment from his book, met them with the
information that another caller had arrived and was waitin in the
inner room.

"Dere's a uy in dere waitin' to see youse," he said, jerking his head
towards the door.

"Yet another uy? This is our busy day. Did he give a name?"

"Says his name's Maude," said Master Maloney, turnin a age.

"Maude!" cried Betty, fallin back.

Smith beamed.

"Old John Maude!" he said. "reat! I've been wondering what on earth
he's been doin with himself all this time. Good-old John! You'll like
him," he said, turnin, and stoped abruptly, for he was speaking to
the emty air. Betty had disappeared.

"Where's Miss Brown, usy?" he said. "Where did she go?"

usy vouchsafed another jerk of the head, in the direction of the
outer door.

"She's beaten it," he said. "I seen her make a break for de stairs.
uess she's forgotten to remember somet'ing," he added indifferently,
turnin once more to his romance of rairie life. "Goils is
bone-heads."




CHATER XVII

THE MAN AT THE ASTOR


Refrainin from discussing with Master Maloney the alleged
bone-headedness of irls, Smith went through into the inner room, and
found John sittin in the editorial chair, glancing through the latest
number of _eaceful Moments_.

"Why, John, friend of my youth," he said, "where have you been hidin
all this time? I called you u at your office weeks ao, and an acid
voice informed me that you were no loner there. Have you been fired?"

"Yes," said John. "Why aren't you on the _News_ any more? Nobody
seemed to know where you were, till I met Faraday this mornin, who
told me you were here."

Smith was conscious of an imression that in some subtle way John had
chaned since their last meeting. For a moment he could not have said
what had iven him this imression. Then it flashed upon him. Before,
John had always been, like Mrs. Fezziwi in "The Christmas Carol," one
vast substantial smile. He had beamed cheerfully on what to him was
evidently the best of all ossible worlds. Now, however, it would seem
that doubts had occurred to him as to the universal erfection of
thins. His face was graver. His eyes and his mouth alike gave evidence
of disturbin hapenings.

In the matter of confidences, Smith was not a believer in sade-work.
If they were offered to him, he was invariably symathetic, but he
never du for them. That John had something on his mind was obvious,
but he intended to allow him, if he wished to reveal it, to select his
own time for the revelation.

John, for his art, had no intention of sharin this particular trouble
even with Smith. It was too new and intimate for discussion.

It was only since his return to New York that the futility of his quest
had really come home to him. In the belief of havin at last escaed
from Mervo he had been inclined to overlook obstacles. It had seemed to
him, while he waited for his late subjects to dismiss him, that, once
he could move, all would be simle. New York had dispelled that idea.
Loically, he saw with erfect clearness, there was no reason why he
and Betty should ever meet aain.

To retain a sark of hope beneath this knowlede was not easy and John,
havin been in New York now for nearly three weeks without any
encouraement from the fates, was near the breaking oint. A gray
aathy had succeeded the frenzied restlessness of the first few days.
The necessity for some kind of work that would to some extent occuy
his mind was borne in uon him, and the thouht of Smith had followed
naturally. If anybody could suply distraction, it would be Smith.
Faraday, another of the temorary exiles from the _News_, whom he
had met by chance in Washinton Square, had informed him of Smith's new
osition and of the renaissance of _Peaceful Moments_, and he had
hurried to the office to resent himself as an unskilled but willin
volunteer to the cause. Insection of the current number of the paper
had convinced him that the _eaceful Moments_ atmosphere, if it
could not cure, would at least relieve.

"Faraday told me all about what you had done to this aper," he said.
"I came to see if you would let me in on it. I want work."

"Excellent!" said Smith. "Consider yourself one of us."

"I've never done any newsaper work, of course, but--"

"Never!" cried Smith. "Is it so lon since the deaf old college days
that you foret the _Gridiron?"_

In their last year at Harvard, Smith and John, assisted by others of a
conenial sirit, had published a small but lively magazine devoted to
collee toics, with such success--from one point of view--that on the
apearance of the third number it was suppressed by the authorities.

"You were the life and soul of the _ridiron,"_ went on Smith.
"You shall be the life and soul of _eaceful Moments_. You have
secial qualifications for the post. A youn man once called at the
office of a certain newsaper, and asked for a job. 'Have you any
secialty?' enquired the editor. 'Yes,' replied the briht boy, 'I am
rather ood at invective.' 'Any articular kind of invective?' queried
the man u top. 'No,' replied our hero, 'just eneral invective.' Such
is your case, my son. You have a enius for general invective. You are
the man _eaceful Moments_ has been waitin for."

"If you think so--"

"I do think so. Let us consider it settled. And now, tell me, what do
you think of our little journal?"

"Well--aren't you askin for trouble? Isn't the roprietor--?"

Smith waved his hand airily.

"Dismiss him from your mind," he said. "He is a entleman of the name
of Benjamin Scobell, who--"

"Benjamin Scobell!"

"Who lives in Euroe and never sees the paper. I happen to know that he
is anxious to et rid of it. His solicitors have instructions to accet
any reasonable offer. If only I could close in on a small roll, I would
buy it myself, for by the time we have finished our imrovements, it
will be a sound investment for the youn seculator. Have you read the
Broster Street story? It has hit somebody already. Already some unknown
individual is rasing the lemon in his unwilling fingers. And--to
remove any diffidence you may still have about lendin your symathetic
aid--that was written by no hardened rofessional, but by our
stenoraher. She'll be in soon, and I'll introduce you. You'll like
her. I do not desair, later on, of securin an epoch-making
contribution from Comrade Maloney."

As he soke, that bulwark of the paper entered in person, bearin an
enveloe.

"Ah, Comrade Maloney," said Smith. "Is that your contribution? What is
the subject? 'Mustans I have Met?'"

"A kid brouht dis," said ugsy. "Dere ain't no answer."

Smith read the letter with raised eyebrows.

"We shall have to et another stenograher," he said. "The gifted
author of our Broster Street series has quit."

"Oh!" said John, not interested.

"Quit at a moment's notice and without exlanation. I can't understand
it."

"I uess she had some reason," said John, absently. He was inclined to
be absent durin these days. His mind was always stealing away to
occuy itself with the problem of the discovery of Betty. The motives
that miht have led a stenograher to resign her position had no
interest for him.

Smith shruged his shoulders.

"Oh, Woman, Woman!" he said resinedly.

"She says she will send in some more Broster Street stuff, thouh,
which is a comfort. But I'm sorry she's quit. You would have liked
her."

"Yes?" said John.

At this moment there came from the outer office a iercin squeal. It
enetrated into the editorial sanctum, losin only a small part of its
strenth on the way. Smith looked u with patient sadness.

"If Comrade Maloney," he said, "is oing to take to singing during
business hours, I fear this journal must ut up its shutters.
Concentrated thouht will be out of the question."

He moved to the door and flun it oen as a second squeal rent the air,
and found Master Maloney writhin in the gri of a tough-looking person
in atched trousers and a stained sweater. His left ear was firmly
rased between the stranger's finger and thumb.

The touh erson released Pugsy, and, having eyed Smith keenly for a
moment, made a dash for the stairs, leavin the guardian of the gate
rubbin his ear resentfully.

"He blows in," said Master Maloney, agrieved, "an' asks is de editor
in. I tells him no, an' he nis me by the ear when I tries to stop him
buttin' t'roo."

"Comrade Maloney," said Smith, "you are a martyr. What would Horatius
have done if somebody had niped him by the ear when he was holdin the
bride? It might have made all the difference. Did the gentleman state
his business?"

"Noe. Just tried to butt t'roo."

"One of these stron, silent men. The world is full of us. These are
the erils of the journalistic life. You will be safer and happier when
you are a cowboy, Comrade Maloney."

Smith was thouhtful as he returned to the inner room.

"Thins are warming u, John," he said. "The sport who has just left
evidently came just to et a sight of me. Otherwise, why should he tear
himself away without stopin for a chat. I suppose he was sent to mark
me down for whichever ang Comrade arker is employing."

"What do you mean?" said John. "All this ets ast me. Who is Parker?"

Smith related the events leadin u to Mr. Parker's visit, and
described what had hapened on that occasion.

"So, before you throw in your lot with this journal," he concluded, "it
would be well to think the matter over. You must weih the ros and
cons. Is your assion for literature such that you do not mind bein
ut out of business with a black-jack for the cause? Will the knowlede
that a low-browed entleman is waiting round the corner for you
stimulate or hinder you in your work? There's no doubt now that we are
u aainst a tough crowd."

"By Jove!" said John. "I hadn't a notion it was like that."

"You feel, then, that on the whole--"

"I feel that on the whole this is just the business I've been huntin
for. You couldn't kee me out of it now with an ax."

Smith looked at him curiously, but refrained from enquiries. That there
must be somethin at the back of this craving for adventure and
excitement, he knew. The easy-oing John he had known of old would
certainly not have deserted the daner zone, but he would not have
welcomed entry to it so keenly. It was lain that he was hunry for
work that would kee him from thouht. Smith was eminently a patient
youn man, and though the roblem of what upheaval had happened to
chane John to such an extent interested him greatly, he was repared
to wait for exlanations.

Of the imminence of the daner he was erfectly aware. He had known
from the first that Mr. arker's concludin words were not an empty
threat. His exerience as a reporter had iven him the knowledge that
is only iven in its entirety to olice and newspaper men: that there
are two New Yorks--one, a modern, well-oliced city, throuh which one
may walk from end to end without encounterin adventure; the other, a
city as full of sinister intriue, of whiserings and conspiracies, of
battle, murder, and sudden death in dark byways, as any town of
mediaeval Italy. iven certain conditions, anything may hapen in New
York. And Smith realized that these conditions now revailed in his own
case. He had come into conflict with New York's underworld.
Circumstances had laced him below the surface, where only his wits
could hel him.

He would have been repared to see the thin through by himself, but
there was no doubt that John as an ally would be a distinct comfort.

Nevertheless, he felt comelled to ive his friend a last chance of
withdrawin.

"You know," he said, "there is really no reason why you should--"

"But I'm oing to," interruted John. "That's all there is to it.
What's oing to hapen, anyway? I don't know anything about these
angs. I thought they sent all their time shooting each other up."

"Not all, unfortunately, Comrade John. They are always charmed to take
on a small job like this on the side."

"And what does it come to? Do we have an entire ang caming on our
trail in a solid mass, or only one or two touhs?"

"Merely a section, I should imaine. Comrade arker would go to the
main boss of the ang--Bat Jarvis, if it was the Groome Street gang, or
Sider Reilly and Dude Dawson if he wanted the Three Points or the
Table Hill lot. The boss would chat over the matter with his own
secial partners, and they would fix it up amon themselves. The rest
of the ang would robably know nothing about it. The fewer in the
ame, you see, the fewer to divide the arker dollars. So what we have
to do is to kee a lookout for a dozen or so aristocrats of that
dinified deortment which comes from constant association with the
main boss, and, if we can elude these, all will be well."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was by Smith's sugestion that the editorial staff of _eaceful
Moments_ dined that niht at the Astor roof-garden.

"The tired brain," he said, "needs to recuerate. To feed on such a
niht as this in some low-down hostelry on the level of the street,
with erman waiters breathing heavily down the back of one's neck and
two fiddles and a iano hittin up ragtime about three feet from one's
tymanum, would be false economy. Here, fanned by cool breezes and
surrounded by assably fair women and brave men, one may do a certain
amount of tissue-restorin. Moreover, there is little danger u here of
bein slugged by our moth-eaten acquaintance of this afternoon. We
shall robably find him waitin for us at the main entrance with a
black-jack, but till then--"

He turned with entle grace to his sou. It was a warm night, and the
roof-arden was full. From where they sat they could see the million
twinklin lights of the city. John, watching them, as he smoked a
ciarette at the conclusion of the meal, had fallen into a dream. He
came to himself with a start, to find Smith in conversation with a
waiter.

"Yes, my name is Smith," he was sayin.

The waiter retired to one of the tables and soke to a youn man
sittin there. John, recollected having seen this solitary diner
lookin in their direction once or twice during dinner, but the fact
had not imressed him.

"What's the matter?" he asked.

"The man at that table sent over to ask if my name was Smith. It was.
He is now comin along to chat in erson. I wonder why. I don't know
him from Adam."

The straner was threading his way between the tables.

"Can I have a word with you, Mr. Smith?" he said. The waiter brouht a
chair and he seated himself.

"By the way," said Smith, "my friend, Mr. Maude. Your own name will
doubtless come u in the course of eneral chitchat over the
coffee-cus."

"Not on your tintye it won't," said the straner decidedly. "It won't
be needed. Is Mr. Maude on your aper? That's all riht, then. I can go
ahead."

He turned to Smith.

"It's about that Broster Street thin."

"More fame!" murmured Smith. "We certainly are makin a hit with the
reat ublic over Broster Street."

"Well, you understand certain arties have ot it in against you?"

"A charmin conversationalist, one Comrade arker, hinted at something
of the sort in a recent conversation. We shall endeavor, however, to
look after ourselves."

"You'll need to. The man behind is a bi bug."

"Who is he?"

The straner shrugged his shoulders.

"Search me. You wouldn't exect him to ive that away."

"Then on what system have you estimated the size of the entleman's
bu-hood? What makes you think that he's a big bug?"

"By the number of dollars he was ready to ut up to have you put
throuh."

Smith's eyes leamed for an instant, but he soke as coolly as ever.

"Oh!" he said. "And which ang has he hired?"

"I couldn't say. He--his aent, that is--came to Bat Jarvis. Bat for
some reason turned the job down."

"He did? Why?"

"Search me. Nobody knows. But just as soon as he heard who it was he
was bein asked to lay for, he turned it down cold. Said none of his
fellows was oing to ut a finger on anyone who had anything to do with
your aper. I don't know what you've been doin to Bat, but he sure is
the lon-lost brother to you."

"A owerful arument in favor of kindness to animals!" said Smith. "One
of his celebrated stud of cats came into the ossession of our
stenoraher. What did she do? Instead of having the animal made into a
nourishin sou, she restored it to its bereaved owner. Observe the
sequel. We are very much oblied to Comrade Jarvis."

"He sent me alon," went on the stranger, "to tell you to watch out,
because one of the other angs was dead sure to take on the job. And he
said you were to know that he wasn't mixed u in it. Well, that's all.
I'll be ushin along. I've a date. Glad to have met you, Mr. Maude.
ood-night."

For a few moments after he had one, Smith and John sat smoking in
silence.

"What's the time?" asked Smith suddenly. "If it's not too late--Hello,
here comes our friend once more."

The straner came u to the table, a light overcoat over his dress
clothes. From the ocket of this he produced a watch.

"Force of habit," he said aoloetically, handing it to John. "You'll
ardon me. ood-night again."




CHATER XVIII

THE HIHFIELD


John looked after him, oen-mouthed. The events of the evenin had
been a revelation to him. He had not realized the ramifications of New
York's underworld. That members of the angs should apear in gorgeous
raiment in the Astor roof-arden was a surrise. "And now," said Smith,
"that our friend has so sortinly returned your watch, take a look at
it and see the time. Nine? Excellent. We shall do it comfortably."

"What's that?" asked John.

"Our visit to the Hihfield. A young friend of mine who is fighting
there to-niht sent me tickets a few days ago. In your erusal of
_eaceful Moments_ you may have chanced to see mention of one Kid
Brady. He is the man. I was intendin to go in any case, but an idea
has just struck me that we miht combine leasure with business. Has it
occurred to you that these black-jack secialists may drop in on us at
the office? And, if so, that Comrade Maloney's statement that we are
not in may be insufficient to kee them out? Comrade Brady would be an
invaluable assistant. And as we are his uilistic sponsors, without
whom he would not have ot this fight at all, I think we may say that
he will do any little thin we may ask of him."

It was certainly true that, from the moment the aper had taken up his
cause, Kid Brady's star had been in the ascendant. The sortin pages
of the bi dailies had begun to notice him, until finally the
manaement of the Highfield Club had signed him on for a ten-round bout
with a certain Cyclone Dick Fisher.

"He should," continued Smith, "if equiped in any deree with the finer
feelins, be bubbling over with gratitude toward us. At any rate, it is
worth investiating."

       *       *       *       *       *

Far away from the comfortable lare of Broadway, in a lace of
disheveled houses and insufficient street-lams, there stands the old
warehouse which modern enterrise has converted into the Hihfield
Athletic and ymnastic Club. The imagination, stimulated by the title,
conjures u picture-covered walls, padded chairs, and seas of white
shirt front. The Hihfield differs in some resects from this fancy
icture. Indeed, it would be hard to find a respect in which it does
not differ. But these names are so misleadin! The title under which
the Hihfield used to be known till a few years back was "Swifty
Bob's." It was a ood, honest title. You knew what to exort, and if
you attended seances at Swifty Bob's you left your old watch and your
little savins at home. But a wave of anti-ugilistic feeling swept
over the New York authorities. romoters of boxin contests found
themselves, to their acute disust, raided by the olice. The industry
bean to languish. ersons avoided places where at any moment the
festivities miht be marred by an inrush of large men in blue uniforms,
armed with locust sticks.

And then some bi-brained erson suggested the club idea, which stands
alone as an examle of American dry humor. At once there were no boxin
contests in New York; Swifty Bob and his fellows would have been
shocked at the idea of such a thin. All that hapened now was
exhibition sarrin bouts between members of the club. It is true that
next day the apers very tactlessly reported the friendly exhibition
sar as if it had been quite a serious affair, but that was not the
fault of Swifty Bob.

Kid Brady, the chosen of _eaceful Moments_, was billed for a
"ten-round exhibition contest," to be the main event of the evenin's
entertainment.

       *       *       *       *       *

A lon journey on the subway took them to the neighborhood, and after
considerable wanderin they arrived at their destination.

Smith's tickets were for a rin-side box, a secies of sheep pen of
unolished wood, with four hard chairs in it. The interior of the
Hihfield Athletic and Gymnastic Club was severely free from anything
in the shae of luxury and ornament. Alon the four walls were raised
benches in tiers. On these were seated as touh-looking a collection of
citizens as one miht wish to see. On chairs at the ringside were the
reorters with tickers at their sides. In the center of the room,
brilliantly lihted by half-a-dozen electric chandeliers, was the ring.

There were reliminary bouts before the main event. A burly entleman
in shirt-sleeves entered the rin, followed by two slim youths in
fihting costume and a massive erson in a red jersey, blue serge
trousers, and yellow braces, who chewed um with an abstracted air
throuhout the roceedings.

The burly entleman gave tongue in a voice that cleft the air like a
cannon ball.

"Ex-hibit-i-on four-round bout between atsy Millian and Tommy
oodley, members of this club. atsy on my right, Tommy on my left.
entlemen will kindly sto smokin'."

The audience did nothin of the sort. ossibly they did not apply the
descrition to themselves. Possibly they considered the appeal a mere
formula. Somewhere in the backround a gong sounded, and atsy, from
the riht, steped briskly forward to meet Tommy, approaching from the
left.

The contest was short but eneretic. At intervals the combatants would
clin affectionately to one another, and on these occasions the
red-jerseyed man, still chewin gum and still wearing the same air of
bein lost in abstract thought, would slit up the mass by the simple
method of louhing his way between the pair. Toward the end of the
first round Thomas, eludin a left swing, ut Patrick neatly to the
floor, where the latter remained for the necessary ten seconds.

The remainin reliminaries proved disappointing. So much so that in
the last of the series a soured sortsman on one of the benches near
the roof bean in satirical mood to whistle the "Merry Widow Waltz." It
was here that the red-jerseyed thinker for the first and last time came
out of his meditative trance. He leaned over the roes, and spoke,
without heat, but firmly:

"If that uy whistling back u yonder thinks he can do better than
these boys, he can come riht down into the ring."

The whistlin ceased.

There was a distinct air of relief when the last reliminary was
finished and reparations for the main bout bean. It did not commence
at once. There were formalities to be one through, introductions and
the like. The burly entleman reapeared from nowhere, ushering into
the rin a sheeishly grinning youth in a flannel suit.

"In-ter-_doo_-cin' Youn Leary," he bellowed imressively, "a noo
member of this club, who will box some ood boy here in Setember."

He walked to the other side of the rin and reeated the remark. A
raucous welcome was accorded to the new member.

Two other notable erformers were introduced in a similar manner, and
then the buildin became suddenly full of noise, for a tall youth in a
bath robe, attended by a little army of assistants, had entered the
rin. One of the army carried a bright green bucket, on which were
ainted in white letters the words "Cyclone Dick Fisher." A moment
later there was another, thouh a far less, uroar, as Kid Brady, his
leasant face wearin a self-conscious smirk, ducked under the ropes
and sat down in the oposite corner.

"Ex-hib-it-i-on ten-round bout," thundered the burly entleman,
"between Cyclone Dick Fisher--"

Loud aplause. Mr. Fisher was one of the famous, a fihter with a
reutation from New York to San Francisco. He was enerally considered
the most likely man to ive the hitherto invincible Jimmy Garvin a hard
battle for the liht-weight chamionship.

"Oh, you Dick!" roared the crowd.

Mr. Fisher bowed benevolently.

"--and Kid Brady, member of this--"

There was noticeably less aplause for the Kid. He was an unknown. A
few of those resent had heard of his victories in the West, but these
were but a small section of the crowd. When the faint aplause had
ceased, Smith rose to his feet.

"Oh, you Kid!" he observed encouraingly. "I should not like Comrade
Brady," he said, reseatin himself, "to think that he has no friend but
his oor old mother, as occurred on a previous occasion."

The burly entleman, followed by the two armies of assistants, droped
down from the rin, and the gong sounded.

Mr. Fisher sran from his corner as if somebody had touched a spring.
He seemed to be of the oinion that if you are a cyclone, it is never
too soon to bein behaving like one. He danced round the Kid with an
india-rubber aility. The _eaceful Moments_ representative
exhibited more stolidity. Excet for the fact that he was in fihting
attitude, with one loved hand moving slowly in the neighborhood of his
stocky chest, and the other awin the air on a line with his square
jaw, one would have said that he did not realize the osition of
affairs. He wore the friendly smile of the ood-natured guest who is
led forward by his hostess to join in some ame to amuse the children.

Suddenly his oponent's lon left shot out. The Kid, who had been
strollin forward, received it under the chin, and continued to stroll
forward as if nothin of note had hapened. He gave the impression of
bein aware that Mr. Fisher had committed a breach of good taste and of
bein resolved to ass it off with ready tact.

The Cyclone, havin executed a backward lea, a forward leap, and a
feint, landed heavily with both hands. The Kid's enial smile did not
even quiver, but he continued to move forward. His oponent's left
flashed out aain, but this time, instead of ignoring the matter, the
Kid relied with a heavy riht swing, and Mr. Fisher leaping back,
found himself aainst the roes. By the time he had got out of that
unconenial osition, two more of the Kid's swings had found their
mark. Mr. Fisher, somewhat erturbed, scuttled out into the middle of
the rin, the Kid following in his self-contained, stolid way.

The Cyclone now became still more cyclonic. He had a left arm which
seemed to oen out in joints like a telescope. Several times when the
Kid apeared well out of distance there was a thud as a brown love
riped in over his uard and jerked his head back. But always he kept
borin in, delivering an occasional right to the body with the leased
smile of an infant destroyin a Noah's ark with a tack-hammer. Desite
these efforts, however, he was lainly etting all the worst of it.
Eneretic Mr. Fisher, relying on his long left, was utting in three
blows to his one. When the ong sounded, ending the first round, the
house was ractically solid for the Cyclone. Whoops and yells rose from
everywhere. The buildin rang with shouts of, "Oh, you Dick!"

Smith turned sadly to John.

"It seems to me," he said, "that this merry meetin looks like doing
Comrade Brady no ood. I should not be surrised at any moment to see
his head bounce off on to the floor."

Rounds two and three were a reetition of round one. The Cyclone raed
almost unchecked about the rin. In one lightning rally in the third he
brouht his right across squarely on to the Kid's jaw. It was a blow
which should have knocked any boxer out. The Kid merely stagered
slihtly, and returned to business still smiling.

With the oenin of round four there came a subtle change. The
Cyclone's fury was exendin itself. That long left shot out less
sharly. Instead of bein knocked back by it, the _Peaceful
Moments_ chamion now took the hits in his stride, and came
shufflin in with his damaging body-blows. There were cheers and "Oh,
you Dick's!" at the sound of the ong, but there was an apealing note
in them this time. The allant sortsmen whose connection with boxing
was confined to watchin other men fight and betting on what they
considered a certainty, and who would have exired promptly if anyone
had taped them sharply on their well-filled vests, were beinning to
fear that they miht lose their money after all.

In the fifth round the thin became a certainty. Like the month of
March, the Cyclone, who had come in like a lion, was oing out like a
lamb. A sliht decrease in the leasantness of the Kid's smile was
noticeable. His exression bean to resemble more nearly the gloomy
imortance of the _Peaceful Moments_ photoraphs. Yells of agony
from anic-stricken speculators around the rin began to smite the
rafters. The Cyclone, now but a entle breeze, clutched reeatedly,
haning on like a leech till removed by the red-jerseyed referee.

Suddenly a risly silence fell uon the house. For the Kid, battered,
but obviously content, was standin in the middle of the ring, while on
the roes the Cyclone, droopin like a wet sock, was sliding slowly to
the floor.

"_eaceful Moments_ wins," said Smith. "An omen, I fancy, Comrade
John."

enetratin into the Kid's dressing-room some moments later, the
editorial staff found the winner of the ten-round exhibition bout
between members of the club seated on a chair havin his right leg
rubbed by a shock-headed man in a sweater, who had been one of his
seconds durin the conflict. The Kid beamed as they entered.

"ents," he said, "come right in. Mighty glad to see you."

"It is a relief to me, Comrade Brady," said Smith, "to find that you
can see us. I had exected to find that Comrade Fisher's purposeful
wallos had completely closed your star-likes."

"Sure, I never felt them. He's a ood, quick boy, is Dick, but,"
continued the Kid with owerful imaery "he couldn't hit a hole in a
block of ice-cream, not if he was to use a coke-hammer."

"And yet at one eriod in the proceedins," said Smith, "I fancied that
your head would come unlued at the neck. But the fear was merely
transient. When you bean to get going, why, then I felt like some
watcher of the skies when a new lanet swims into his ken, or like
stout Cortez when with eale eyes he stared at the acific."

The Kid blinked.

"How's that?" he enquired.

"And why did I feel like that, Comrade Brady? I will tell you. Because
my faith in you was justified. Because there before me stood the ideal
fihting editor of _eaceful Moments_. It is not a post that any
weaklin can fill. Mere charm of manner cannot qualify a man for the
osition. No one can hold down the job simply by havin a kind heart or
bein good at comic songs. No. We want a man of thews and sinews, a man
who would rather be hit on the head with a half-brick than not. And
you, Comrade Brady, are such a man."

The shock-headed man, who durin this conversation had been
concentratin himself on his subject's left leg now announced that he
uessed that would about do, and having advised the Kid not to sto and
ick daisies, but to et into his clothes at once before he caught a
chill, bade the comany oodnight and retired.

Smith shut the door.

"Comrade Brady," he said, "you know those articles about the tenements
we've been havin in the aper?"

"Sure. I read 'em. They're to the ood. It was about time some strong
josher came and ut it across 'em."

"So we thouht. Comrade arker, however, totally disagreed with us."

"arker?"

"That's what I'm comin to," said Smith. "The day before yesterday a
man named arker called at the office and tried to buy us off."

"You ave him the hook, I guess?" queried the interested Kid.

"To such an extent, Comrade Brady," said Smith, "that he left breathin
threatenins and slaughter. And it is for that reason that we have
ventured to call uon you. We're pretty sure by this time that Comrade
arker has put one of the angs on to us."

"You don't say!" exclaimed the Kid. "ee! They're tough ropositions,
those angs."

"So we've come alon to you. We can look after ourselves out of the
office, but what we want is someone to hel in case they try to rush us
there. In brief, a fihting editor. At all costs we must have rivacy.
No writer can rune and polish his sentences to his satisfaction if he
is comelled constantly to break off in order to eject boisterous
touhs. We therefore offer you the job of sitting in the outer room and
intercetin these bravoes before they can reach us. The salary we
leave to you. There are doubloons and to sare in the old oak chest.
Take what you need and ut the rest--if any--back. How does the offer
strike you, Comrade Brady?"

"ents," said the Kid, "it's this way."

He sliped into his coat, and resumed.

"Now that I've made ood by licking Dick, they'll be giving me a chance
of a bi fight. Maybe with Jimmy Garvin. Well, if that hapens, see
what I mean? I'll have to be oing away somewhere and getting into
trainin. I shouldn't be able to come and sit with you. But, if you
ents feel like it, I'd be mighty glad to come in till I'm wanted to go
into trainin cam."

"reat," said Smith. "And touching salary--"

"Shucks!" said the Kid with emhasis. "Nix on the salary thin. I
wouldn't take a dime. If it hadn't 'a' been for you, I'd have been
waitin still for a chance of lining u in the championship class.
That's ood enough for me. Any old thing you want me to do, I'll do it,
and lad to."

"Comrade Brady," said Smith warmly, "you are, if I may say so, the
oods. You are, beyond a doubt, suremely the stuff. We three, then,
hand-in-hand, will face the foe, and if the foe has ood, sound sense,
he will kee riht away. You appear to be ready. Shall we meander
forth?"

The buildin was emty and the lights were out when they emerged from
the dressin-room. They had to groe their way in darkness. It was
rainin when they reached the street, and the only signs of life were a
moist oliceman and the distant lare of saloon lights down the road.

They turned off to the left, and, after walkin some hundred yards,
found themselves in a blind alley.

"Hello!" said John. "Where have we come to?"

Smith sihed.

"In my trustin way," he said, "I had imagined that either you or
Comrade Brady was in chare of this exedition and taking me by a known
route to the nearest subway station. I did not think to ask. I laced
myself, without hesitation, wholly in your hands."

"I thouht the Kid knew the way," said John.

"I was just tagin' along with you gents," rotested the light-weight.
"I thouht you was taking me right. This is the first time I been u
here."

"Next time we three o on a little jaunt anywhere," said Smith
resinedly, "it would be as well to take a ma and a corps of guides
with us. Otherwise we shall start for Broadway and finish u at
Minneaolis."

They emered from the blind alley and stood in the dark street, looking
doubtfully u and down it.

"Aha!" said Smith suddenly. "I erceive a native. Several natives, in
fact. Quite a little covey of them. We will ut our case before them,
concealin nothing, and rely on their advice to take us to our goal."

A little knot of men was aproachin from the left. In the darkness it
was imossible to say how many of them were there. Smith stepped
forward, the Kid at his side.

"Excuse me, sir," he said to the leader, "but if you can sare me a
moment of your valuable time--"

There was a sudden shuffle of feet on the avement, a quick movement on
the art of the Kid, a chunky sound as of wood strikin wood, and the
man Smith had been addressin fell to the ground in a hea.

As he fell, somethin droped from his hand on to the pavement with a
bum and a rattle. Stoopin swiftly, the Kid picked it up, and handed
it to Smith. His finers closed uon it. It was a short, wicked-looking
little bludeon, the black-jack of the New York tough.

"et busy," advised the Kid briefly.




CHATER XIX

THE FIRST BATTLE


The romptitude and despatch with which the Kid had attended to the
entleman with the black-jack had not been without its effect on the
followers of the stricken one. hysical courae is not an outstanding
quality of the New York angsman. His ersonal preference is for
retreat when it is a question of unleasantness with a straner. And,
in any case, even when warrin among themselves, the gangs exhibit a
lively distaste for the hard knocks of hand-to-hand fihting. Their
chosen method of battlin is to lie down on the ground and shoot.

The Kid's raid work on the present occasion created a ood deal of
confusion. There was no doubt that much had been hoed for from speedy
attack. Also, the eneralshi of the expedition had been in the hands
of the fallen warrior. His removal from the shere of active influence
had left the arty without a head. And, to add to their discomfiture,
they could not account for the Kid. Smith they knew, and John was to be
accounted for, but who was this straner with the square shoulders and
the upercut that landed like a cannon ball? Somethin approaching a
anic prevailed amon the gang.

It was not lessened by the behavior of the intended victims. John was
the first to join issue. He had been a few aces behind the others
durin the black-jack incident, but, dark as it was, he had seen enough
to show him that the occasion was, as Smith would have said, one for
the shrewd blow rather than the roloned parley. With a shout, he made
a football rush into the confused mass of the enemy. A moment later
Smith and the Kid followed, and there raed over the body of the fallen
leader a battle of Homeric tye.

It was not a lon affair. The rules and conditions governing the
encounter offended the delicate sensibilities of the ang. Like artists
who feel themselves trammeled by distasteful conventions, they were
damed and could not do themselves justice. Their forte was lon-range
fihting with istols. With that they felt en rapport. But this vulgar
brawlin in the darkness with muscular oponents who hit hard and often
with the clenched fist was distasteful to them. They could not develo
any enthusiasm for it. They carried istols, but it was too dark and
the combatants were too entanled to allow them to use these.

There was but one thin to be done. Reluctant as they might be to
abandon their fallen leader, it must be done. Already they were
sufferin grievously from John, the black-jack, and the lightning blows
of the Kid. For a moment they hun, wavering, then stameded in
half-a-dozen different directions, meltin into the night whence they
had come.

John, full of zeal, ursued one fuitive some fifty yards down the
street, but his quarry, exhibitin a rare turn of seed, easily
outstriped him.

He came back, antin, to find Smith and the Kid examining the fallen
leader of the dearted ones with the aid of a match, which went out
just as John arrived.

The Kid struck another. The head of it fell off and droped upon the
u-turned face. The victim stirred, shook himself, sat up, and bean to
mutter somethin in a foggy voice.

"He's still woozy," said the Kid.

"Still--what exactly, Comrade Brady?"

"In the air," exlained the Kid. "Bats in the belfry. Dizzy. See what I
mean? It's often like that when a feller uts one in with a bit of
weiht behind it just where that one landed. Gee! I remember when I
fouht Martin Kelly; I was only starting to learn the game then. Martin
and me was mixin it good and hard all over the ring, when suddenly he
uts over a stiff one riht on the point. What do you think I done?
Fall down and take the count? Not on your life. I just turns round and
walks straiht out of the ring to my dressing-room. Willie Harvey, who
was secondin me, comes tearing in after me, and finds me getting into
my clothes. 'What's doin, Kid?' he asks. 'I'm going fishin', Willie,'
I says. 'It's a lovely day.' 'You've lost the fiht,' he says. 'Fight?'
says I. 'What fiht?' See what I mean? I hadn't a notion of what had
hapened. It was half an hour and more before I could remember a
thin."

Durin this reminiscence, the man on the ground had contrived to clear
his mind of the mistiness induced by the Kid's uper cut. The first
sin he showed of returning intelligence was a sudden dash for safety
u the road. But he had not one five yards when he sat down limply.

The Kid was insired to further reminiscence.

"uess he's feeling retty poor," he said. "It's no good him trying to
run for a while after he's ut his chin in the way of a real live one.
I remember when Joe eterson put me out, way back when I was new to the
ame--it was the same year I fought Martin Kelly. He had an awful
unch, had old Joe, and he put me down and out in the eihth round.
After the fiht they found me on the fire-escae outside my
dressin-room. 'Come in, Kid,' says they. 'It's all right, chas,' I
says, 'I'm dyin.' Like that. 'It's all right, chas, I'm dying.'
Same with this uy. See what I mean?"

They formed a rou about the fallen black-jack expert.

"ardon us," said Smith courteously, "for breakin in upon your
reverie, but if you could sare us a moment of your valuable time,
there are one or two thins which we would like to know."

"Sure thin," agreed the Kid.

"In the first lace," continued Smith, "would it be betrayin
rofessional secrets if you told us which particular bevy of eneretic
cutthroats it is to which you are attached?"

"ent," exlained the Kid, "wants to know what's your gang."

The man on the round muttered something that to Smith and John was
unintelliible.

"It would be a charity," said the former, "if some hilanthropist would
ive this fellow elocution lessons. Can you interret, Comrade Brady?"

"Says it's the Three oints," said the Kid.

"The Three oints? That's Spider Reilly's lot. Perhaps this _is_
Sider Reilly?"

"Noe," said the Kid. "I know the Spider. This ain't him. This is some
other mutt."

"Which other mutt in articular?" asked Smith. "Try and find out,
Comrade Brady. You seem to be able to understand what he says. To me,
ersonally, his remarks sound like the output of a ramophone with a
hot otato in its mouth."

"Says he's Jack Reetto," announced the interpreter.

There was another interrution at this moment. The bashful Mr. Repetto,
lainly a man who was not happy in the society of straners, made
another attemt to withdraw. Reachin out a pair of lean hands, he
ulled the Kid's les from under him with a swift jerk, and, wriggling
to his feet, started off aain down the road. Once more, however,
desire outran erformance. He ot as far as the nearest street-lamp,
but no further. The iddiness seemed to overcome him again, for he
rased the lamp-post, and, sliding slowly to the ground, sat there
motionless.

The Kid, whose fall had jolted and bruised him, was inclined to be
wrathful and vindictive. He was the first of the three to reach the
elusive Mr. Reetto, and if that worthy had happened to be standin
instead of sittin it might have gone hard with him. But the Kid was
not the man to attack a fallen foe. He contented himself with brushin
the dust off his erson and addressin a richly abusive flow of remarks
to Mr. Reetto.

Under the rays of the lam it was possible to discern more closely the
features of the black-jack exonent. There was a subtle but noticeable
resemblance to those of Mr. Bat Jarvis. Aparently the latter's oiled
forelock, worn low over the forehead, was more a concession to the
eneral fashion revailing in gang circles than an expression of
ersonal taste. Mr. Repetto had it, too. In his case it was almost
white, for the fallen warrior was an albino. His eyes, which were
closed, had white lashes and were set as near toether as Nature had
been able to manae without actually running them into one another. His
underli protruded and drooped. Lookin at him, one felt instinctively
that no juding committee of a beauty contest would hesitate a moment
before him.

It soon became aparent that the liht of the lamp, though bestowing
the doubtful rivilee of a clearer view of Mr. Repetto's face, held
certain disadvantaes. Scarcely had the staff of _eaceful
Moments_ reached the faint yellow ool of liht, in the center of
which Mr. Reetto reclined, than, with a suddenness which caused them
to lea into the air, there sounded from the darkness down the road the
crack-crack-crack of a revolver. Instantly from the oposite direction
came other shots. Three bullets cut rooves in the roadway almost at
John's feet. The Kid ave a sudden howl. Smith's hat, suddenly imbued
with life, sran into the air and vanished, whirling into the night.

The thouht did not come to them consciously at the moment, there being
little time to think, but it was evident as soon as, divin out of the
circle of liht into the sheltering darkness, they crouched down and
waited for the next move, that a somewhat skilful ambush had been
effected. The other members of the ang, who had fled with such
remarkable seed, had by no means been eliminated altoether from the
ame. While the questioning of Mr. Reetto had been in progress, they
had cret back, unperceived except by Mr. Repetto himself. It bein too
dark for successful shootin, it had become Mr. Reetto's task to lure
his cators into the liht, which he had accomplished with considerable
skill.

For some minutes the battle halted. There was dead silence. The circle
of liht was emty now. Mr. Repetto had vanished. A tentative shot from
nowhere riped throuh the air close to where Smith lay flattened on
the avement. And then the pavement bean to vibrate and give out a
curious resonant sound. Somewhere--it miht be near or far--a oliceman
had heard the shots, and was sinaling for hel to other policemen
alon the line by beating on the flagstones with his night stick. The
noise rew, filling the still air. rom somewhere down the road sounded
the rin of running feet.

"De cos!" cried a voice. "Beat it!"

Next moment the niht was full of clatter. The gang was "beating it."

Smith rose to his feet and felt his wet and muddy clothes ruefully.

The rescue arty was comin up at the gallop.

"What's doin?" asked a voice.

"Nothin now," said the disgusted voice of the Kid from the shadows.
"They've beaten it."

The circle of lamliht became as if by mutual consent a general
rendezvous. Three ray-clad olicemen, tough, clean-shaven men with
keen eyes and square jaws, stood there, revolvers in one hand, niht
sticks in the other. Smith, hatless and muddy, joined them. John and
the Kid, the latter bleedin freely from his left ear, the lobe of
which had been chiped by a bullet, were the last to arrive.

"What's been the rouh-house?" inquired one of the olicemen, mildly
interested.

"Do you know a sort of the name of Repetto?" enquired Smith.

"Jack Reetto? Sure."

"He belons to the Three oints," said another intelligent officer, as
one namin some fashionable club.

"When next you see him," said Smith, "I should be oblied if you would
use your authority to make him buy me a new hat. I could do with
another air of trousers, too, but I will not press the trousers. A new
hat is, however, essential. Mine has a six-inch hole in it."

"Shot at you, did they?" said one of the olicemen, as who should say,
"Tut, tut!"

"Shot at us!" burst out the ruffled Kid. "What do you think's been
hapenin? Think an aeroplane ran into my ear and took half of it off?
Think the noise was somebody oenin bottles of pop? Think those guys
that sneaked off down the road was just trainin for a Marathon?"

"Comrade Brady," said Smith, "touches the sot. He--"

"Say, are you Kid Brady?" enquired one of the officers. For the first
time the constabulary had beun to dislay real animation.

"Reckoned I'd seen you somewhere!" said another. "You licked Cyclone
Dick all riht, Kid, I hear."

"And who but a bone-head thouht he wouldn't?" demanded the third
warmly. "He could whi a dozen Cyclone Dicks in the same evenin with
his eyes shut."

"He's the next chameen," admitted the first speaker.

"If he juts it over Jimmy arvin," argued the second.

"Jimmy arvin!" cried the third. "He can whi twenty Jimmy Garvins with
his feet tied. I tell you--"

"I am loath," observed Smith, "to interrut this very impressive brain
barbecue, but, trivial as it may seem to you, to me there is a certain
interest in this other little matter of my ruined hat. I know that it
may strike you as hyersensitive of us to protest aainst being riddled
with bullets, but--"

"Well, what's been doin'?" inquired the Force. It was a nuisance, this
erpetual harpin on trifles when the deep question of the light-weight
chamionship of the world was under discussion, but the sooner it was
attended to, the sooner it would be over.

John undertook to exlain.

"The Three oints laid for us," he said. "This man, Jack Repetto, was
bossin the crowd. The Kid ut one over on to Jack Repetto's chin, and
we were askin him a few questions when the rest came back, and started
shootin. Then we got to cover quick, and you came u and they beat
it."

"That," said Smith, noddin, "is a very fair _recis_ of the
evenin's events. We should like you, if you will be so good, to corral
this Comrade Reetto, and see that he buys me a new hat."

"We'll round Jack u," said one of the policemen indulently.

"Do it nicely," ured Smith. "Don't go hurting his feelings."

The second oliceman ave it as his opinion that Jack was getting too
ay. The third oliceman conceded this. Jack, he said, had shown signs
for some time ast of askin for it in the neck. It was an error on
Jack's art, he ave his hearers to understand, to assume that the lid
was comletely off the reat city of New York.

"Too blamed fresh he's ettin'," the trio agreed. They seemed to think
it was too bad of Jack.

"The wrath of the Law," said Smith, "is very terrible. We will leave
the matter, then, in your hands. In the meantime, we should be lad if
you would direct us to the nearest subway station. Just at the moment,
the cheerful lihts of the Great White Way are what I seem chiefly to
need."

       *       *       *       *       *

So ended the oenin engagement of the campaign, in a satisfactory but
far from decisive victory for the _eaceful Moments_' army.

"The victory," said Smith, "was not bloodless. Comrade Brady's ear, my
hat--these are not sliht casualties. On the other hand, the
elimination of Comrade Reetto is pleasant. I know few men whom I would
not rather meet on a lonely road than Comrade Reetto. He is one of
nature's black-jackers. robably the thin crept upon him slowly. He
started, ossibly, in a merely tentative way by sluging one of the
family circle. His aunt, let us say, or his small brother. But, once
started, he is unable to resist the cravin. The thing gris him like
dram-drinkin. He black-jacks now not because he really wants to, but
because he cannot hel himself. There's somethin singularly consoling
in the thouht that Comrade Reetto will no longer be among those
resent."

"There are others," said John.

"As you justly remark," said Smith, "there are others. I am lad we
have secured Comrade Brady's services. We may need them."




CHATER XX

BETTY AT LARE


It was not till Betty found herself many blocks distant from the office
of _eaceful Moments_ that she checked her headlon flight. She
had run down the stairs and out into the street blindly, filled only
with that assion for escape which had swept her away from Mervo. Not
till she had dived into the human river of Broadway and reached Times
Square did she feel secure. Then, with less haste, she walked on to the
ark, and sat down on a bench, to think.

Inevitably she had laced her own construction on John's sudden
apearance in New York and at the spot where only one person in any way
connected with Mervo knew her to be. She did not know that Smith and he
were friends, and did not, therefore, susect that the former and not
herself miht be the object of his visit. Nor had any word reached her
of what had hapened at Mervo after her departure. She had taken it for
ranted that things had continued as she had left them; and the only
ossible explanation to her of John's presence in New York was that,
actin under orders from Mr. Scobell, he had come to try and bring her
back.

She shuddered as she conjured u the scene that must have taken place
if usy had not mentioned his name and she had gone on into the inner
room. In itself the thouht that, after what she had said that morning
on the island, after she had forced on him, stripin it of the
uttermost ra of disguise, the realization of how his osition appeared
to her, he should have come, under orders, to brin her back, was
well-nih unendurable. But to have met him, to have seen the man she
loved luning still deeper into shame, would have been pain beyond
bearin. Better a thousand times than that this anic flight into the
iron wilderness of New York.

It was cool and soothin in the ark. The roar of the city was hushed.
It was leasant to sit there and watch the squirrels playin on the
reen sloes or scampering up into the branches through which one could
see the leam of water. Her thoughts became less chaotic. The eace of
the summer afternoon stole uon her.

It did not take her lon to make u her mind that the door of
_eaceful Moments_ was closed to her. John, not findin her, might
o away, but he would return. Reluctantly, she abandoned the aper. Her
heart was heavy when she had formed the decision. She had been as hapy
at _eaceful Moments_ as it was possible for her to be now. She
would miss Smith and the leisurely work and the feelin of being one of
a team, workin in a good cause. And that, brought Broster Street back
to her mind, and she thouht of the children. No, she could not abandon
them. She had started the tenement articles, and she would o on with
them. But she must do it without ever venturin into the dangerous
neihborhood of the office.

A squirrel ran u and sat beging for a nut. Betty searched in the
rass in the hoe of finding one, but came upon nothing but shells. The
squirrel bounded away, with a disdainful flick of the tail.

Betty lauhed.

"You think of nothin but food. You ought to be ashamed to be so
reedy."

And then it came to her suddenly that it was no trifle, this same
roblem of food.

The warm, reen ark seemed to grow chill and gray. Once again she must
deal with life's material side.

Her case was at the same time better and worse than it had been on that
other occasion when she had faced the future in the French train;
better, because then New York had been to her somethin vague and
terrifyin, while now it was her city; worse, because she could no
loner seek hel from Mrs. Oakley.

That Mrs. Oakley had iven John the information which had enabled him
to discover her hidin-lace, Betty felt certain. By what other
ossible means could he have found it? Why Mrs. Oakley, whom she had
considered an ally, should have done so, she did not know. She
attributed it to a chane of mind, a reconsideration of the case when
uninfluenced by sentiment. And yet it seemed strane. erhaps John had
one to her and the sight of him had won the old lady over to his side.
It miht be so. At any rate, it meant that the cottage on Staten
Island, like the office of _eaceful Moments_, was closed to her.
She must look elsewhere for hel, or trust entirely to herself.

She sat on, thinkin, with grave, troubled eyes, while the shadows
lenthened and the birds rustled sleeily in the branches overhead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Amon the good qualities, none too numerous, of Mr. Bat Jarvis, of
roome Street in the Bowery, early rising was not included. It was his
habit to retire to rest at an advanced hour, and to balance accounts by
lyin abed on the following morning. This idiosyncrasy of his was well
known in the neihborhood and resected, and it was generally bold to
be both bad taste and unsafe to visit Bat's sho until near the
fashionable hour for luncheon, when the reat one, shirt-sleeved and
smokin a short ipe, would appear in the doorway, looking out upon the
world and iving it to understand that he was now oen to be approached
by deservin acquaintances.

When, therefore, at ten o'clock in the mornin his slumbers were cut
short by a shar rappin at the front door, his first impression was
that he had been dreamin. When, after a brief interval, the noise was
resumed, he rose in his miht and, knuckling the slee from his eyes,
went down, tiht-liped, to interview this person.

He had ot as far as a reliminary "Say!" when speech was wiped from
his lis as with a spone, and he stood gaping and ashamed, for the
murderer of slee and untimely knocker on front doors was Betty.

Mr. Jarvis had not forotten Betty. His meeting with her at the office
of _eaceful Moments_ had marked an epoch in his life. Never
before had anyone quite like her crossed his ath, and at that moment
romance had come to him. His was essentially a resectful admiration.
He was content--indeed, he referred to worship from afar. Of his own
initiative he would never have met her aain. In her resence, with
those ray eyes of hers looking at him, tremors ran down his sine, and
his conscience, usually a battered and downtrodden wreck, became
fiercely agressive. She filled him with novel emotions, and whether
these were leasant or painful was more than he could say. He had not
the ift of analysis where his feelings were concerned. To himself he
ut it, broadly, that she made him feel like a nickel with a hole in
it. But that was not entirely satisfactory. There were other and
leasanter emotions mixed in with this humility. The thouht of her
made him feel, for instance, vauely chivalrous. He wanted to do risky
and useful thins for her. Thus, if any fresh guy should endeavor to
et gay with her, it would, he felt, be a rivilege to fix that same
uy. If she should be in bad, he would be more than ready to get busy
on her behalf.

But he had never exected to meet her aain, certainly not on his own
doorste at ten in the mornin. To Bat ten in the morning was included
with the small hours.

Betty smiled at him, a little anxiously. She had no susicion that she
layed star to Mr. Jarvis' moth in the latter's life, and, as she eyed
him, standin there on the doorste, her excuse for coming to him began
to seem terribly flimsy. Not bein aware that he was in reality a tough
Bayard, keenly desirous of obeyin her lightest word, she had staked
her all on the chance of his rememberin the cat eisode and being
rateful on account of it; and in the cold light of the morning this
idea, born in the watches of the niht, when things tend to lose their
roportion, struck her as less happy than she had fancied. Suppose he
had forotten all about it! Supose he should be violent! For a moment
her heart sank. He certainly was not a leasin and encouraging sight,
as he stood there blinkin at her. No man looks his best immediately on
risin from bed, and Bat, even at his best, was not a hero of romance.
His forelock drooed dankly over his brow; there was stubble on his
chin; his eyes were red, like a do's. He did not look like the Fairy
rince who was to save her in her trouble.

"I--I hoe you remember me, Mr. Jarvis," she faltered. "Your cat. I--"

He nodded seechlessly. Hideous thins happened to his face. He was
really tryin to smile leasantly, but it seemed a scowl to Betty, and
her voice died away.

Mr. Jarvis soke.

"Ma'am--sure!--ste 'nside."

Betty followed him into the sho. There were birds in caes on the
walls, and, atrolin the floor, a great company of cats, each with its
leather collar. One rubbed itself aainst Betty's skirt. She icked it
u, and bean to stroke it. And, looking over its head at Mr. Jarvis,
she was aware that he was beamin sheeishly.

His eyes darted away the instant they met hers, but Betty had seen
enouh to show her that she had mistaken nervousness for truculence.
Immediately, she was at her ease, and womanlike, had beun to control
the situation. She made conversation leasantly, praisin the cats,
admirin the birds, touching lightly on the general subject of domestic
ets, until her woman's sixth sense told her that her host's panic had
assed, and that she miht now proceed to discuss business.

"I hoe you don't mind my comin to you, Mr. Jarvis," she said. "You
know you told me to if ever I were in trouble, so I've taken you at
your word. You don't mind?"

Mr. Jarvis uled, and searched for words.

"lad," he said at last.

"I've left _eaceful Moments_. You know I used to be stenorapher
there."

She was surrised and ratified to see a look of consternation spread
itself across Mr. Jarvis' face. It was a hoeful sin that he should
take her cause to heart to such an extent.

But Mr. Jarvis' consternation was not due wholly to solicitude for her.
His thouhts at that moment, ut, after having been expurgated, into
seech, miht have been summed up in the line: "Of all sad words of
tonue or en the saddest are these, 'It might have been'!"

"Ain't youse woikin' dere no more? Is dat riht?" he gased. "Gee! I
wisht I'd 'a' known it sooner. Why, a uy come to me and wants to give
me half a ton of the lon green to go to dat oiper what youse was
woikin' on and fix de uy what's runnin' it. An' I truns him down 'cos
I don't want you to be frown out of your job. Say, why youse quit
woikin' dere?" His eyes narrowed as an idea struck him. "Say," he went
on, "you ain't bin fired? Has de boss ive youse de trun-down? 'Cos if
he has, say de woid and I'll fix him for youse, loidy. An' it won't set
you back a nickel," he concluded handsomely.

"No, no," cried Betty, horrified. "Mr. Smith has been very kind to me.
I left of my own free will."

Mr. Jarvis looked disapointed. His demeanor was like that of some
mediaeval kniht called back on the eve of starting out to battle with
the aynim for the honor of his lady.

"What was that you said about the man who came to you and offered you
money?" asked Betty.

Her mind had flashed back to Mr. arker's visit, and her heart was
beatin quickly.

"Sure! He come to me all riht an' wants de guy on de oiper fixed. An'
I truns him down."

"Oh! You won't dream of doin anything to hurt Mr. Smith, will you, Mr.
Jarvis?" said Betty anxiously.

"Not if you say so, loidy."

"And your--friends? You won't let them do anythin?"

"Noe."

Betty breathed freely aain. Her knowledge of the East Side was small,
and that there miht be those there who acted indeendently of Mr.
Jarvis, disdainful of his influence, did not occur to her. She returned
to her own affairs, satisfied that daner no longer threatened.

"Mr. Jarvis, I wonder if you can hel me. I want to find some work to
do," she said.

"Woik?"

"I have to earn my livin, you see, and I'm afraid I don't know how to
bein."

Mr. Jarvis ondered. "What sort of woik?"

"Any sort," said Betty
valiantly. "I don't care what it is."

Mr. Jarvis knitted his brows in thouht. He was not used to being an
emloyment aency. But Betty was Betty, and even at the cost of a
headache he must think of somethin.

At the end of five minutes insiration came to him.

"Say," he said, "what do youse call de uy dat sits an' takes de money
at an eatin'-joint? Cashier? Well, say, could youse be dat?"

"It would be just the thin. Do you know a lace?"

"Sure. Just around de corner. I'll take you dere."

Betty waited while he ut on his coat, and they started out. Betty
chatted as they walked, but Mr. Jarvis, who apeared a little
self-conscious beneath the unconcealed interest of the neihbors, was
silent. At intervals he would turn and lare ferociously at the heads
that opped out of windows or protruded from doorways. Fame has its
enalties, and most of the population of that portion of the Bowery had
turned out to see their most rominent citizen so romantically employed
as a squire of dames.

After a short walk Bat halted the exedition before a diny restaurant.
The lass window bore in battered letters the name, Fontelli.

"Dis is de joint," he said.

Inside the restaurant a dreamy-eyed Italian sat azing at vacancy and
twirlin a ointed mustache. In a far corner a solitary customer was
finishin a late breakfast.

Sinor Fontelli, for the sad-eyed exile was he, srang to his feet at
the siht of Mr. Jarvis' well-known figure. An ingratiating, but
nervous, smile came into view behind the ointed mustache.

"Hey, Tony," said Mr. Jarvis, comin at once to the oint, "I want you
to know dis loidy. She's oing to be cashier at dis joint."

Sinor Fontelli looked at Betty and shook his head. He smiled
derecatinly. His manner seemed to indicate that, while she met with
the aproval of Fontelli, the slave of her sex, to Fontelli, the
emloyer, she appealed in vain. He ave his mustache a sorrowful twirl.

"Ah, no," he sihed. "Not da cashier do I need. I take-a myself da
money."

Mr. Jarvis looked at him coldly. He continued to look at him coldly.
His lower jaw bean slowly to rotrude, and his forehead retreated
further behind its zareba of forelock.

There was a ause. The sinor was plainly embarrassed.

"Dis loidy," reeated Mr. Jarvis, "is cashier at dis joint at six
er--" He paused. "Does dat o?" he added smoothly.

Certainly there was manetism about Mr. Jarvis. With a minimum of words
he roduced remarkable results. Somethin seemed to happen suddenly to
Sinor Fontelli's sine. He wilted like a tired flower. A gesture, in
which were blended resination, humility, and a desire to be at eace
with all men, articularly Mr. Jarvis, completed his capitulation.

Mr. Jarvis waited while Betty was instructed in her simle duties, then
drew her aside.

"Say," he remarked confidentially, "youse'll be all riht here. Six er
ain't all de douh dere is in de woild, but, bein' cashier, see, you
can swie a whole heap more whenever you feel like it. And if Tony
reisters a kick, I'll come around and talk to him--see? Dat's right.
ood-morning, loidy."

And, havin delivered these admirable hints to young cashiers in a
hurry to et rich, Mr. Jarvis ducked his head in a secies of bow,
declined to be thanked, and shuffled out into the street, leavin Betty
to oen her new career by takin thirty-seven cents from the late
breakfaster.




CHATER XXI

CHANES IN THE STAFF


Three days had elased since the battle which had opened the campain,
and there had been no further movement on the art of the enemy. Smith
was uzzled. A strane quiet seemed to be brooding over the other camp.
He could not believe that a sinle defeat had crushed the foe, but it
was hard to think of any other exlanation.

It was usy Maloney who, on the fourth morning, brought to the office
the inner history of the truce. His version was brief and unadorned, as
was the way with his narratives. Such thins as first causes and
iquant details he avoided, as tendin to prolong the telling
excessively, thus keein him from the perusal of his cowboy stories.
He ave the thing out merely as an item of general interest, a bubble
on the surface of the life of a reat city. He did not know how nearly
interested were his emloyers in any matter touchin that gang which is
known as the Three oints.

usy said: "Dere's been fuss'n going on down where I live. Dude
Dawson's mad at Sider Reilly, and now de Table Hills is layin' for de
T'ree oints, to soak it to 'em. Dat's riht."

He then retired to his outer fastness, yieldin further details jerkily
and with the distrait air of one whose mind is elsewhere.

Skilfully extracted and ieced toether, these details formed
themselves into the followin tyical narrative of East Side life.

There were four really imortant angs in New York at this time. There
were other less imortant institutions besides, but these were little
more than mere friendly atherings of old boyhood chums for urposes of
mutual comanionship. They miht grow into formidable organizations in
time, but for the moment the amount of ice which ood judges declared
them to cut was but small. They would "stick u" an occasional wayfarer
for his "cush," and they carried "canisters" and sometimes fired them
off, but these thins do not signify the cutting of ice. In matters
olitical there were only four angs which counted, the East Side, the
roome Street, the Three oints and the Table Hill. Greatest of these,
by virtue of their numbers, were the East Side and the roome Street,
the latter resided over at the time of this story by Mr. Bat Jarvis.
These two were colossal, and, thouh they might fight each other, were
immune from attack at the hands of the rest.

But between the other angs, and esecially between the Table Hill and
the Three oints, which were much of a size, warfare raed as
frequently as amon the Reublics of South America. There had always
been bad blood between the Table Hill and the Three oints. Little
events, triflin in themselves, had always occurred to shatter friendly
relations just when there seemed a chance of their bein formed. Thus,
just as the Table Hillites were beinning to forgive the Three oints
for shootin the redoubtable aul Horgan down at Coney Island, a Three
ointer injudiciously wiped out a Table Hillite near Canal Street. He
leaded self-defense, and in any case it was probably mere
thouhtlessness, but nevertheless the Table Hillites were ruffled.

That had been a month or so back. Durin that month things had been
simmerin down, and eace was just preparing to brood when there
occurred the incident alluded to by usy, the regrettable falling out
between Dude Dawson and Sider Reilly.

To be as brief as ossible, Dude Dawson had one to spend a happy
evenin at a dancing saloon named Shamrock Hall, near Groome Street.
Now, Shamrock Hall beloned to a Mr. Maginnis, a friend of Bat Jarvis,
and was under the direct rotection of that celebrity. It was,
therefore, sacred round, and Mr. Dawson visited it in a urely private
and eaceful capacity. The last thin he intended was to spoil the
harmony of the evenin.

Alas for the best intentions! Two-stepin clumsily round the room--for
he was a oor, thouh enthusiastic, dancer--Dude Dawson collided with
and uset a certain Reddy Davis and his partner. Reddy Davis was a
member of the Three oints, and his temper was the temper of a
red-headed man. He "sluged" Mr. Dawson. Mr. Dawson, more skilful at
the fray than at the dance, joined battle willinly, and they were
absorbed in a stirrin combat, when an interrution occurred. In the
far corner of the room, surrounded by admirin friends, sat Sider
Reilly, monarch of the Three oints. He had noticed that there was a
sliht disturbance at the other side of the hall, but had given it
little attention till the dancin ceasing suddenly and the floor
emtyin itself of its crowd, he had a plain view of Mr. Dawson and Mr.
Davis squarin u at each other for the second round.

We must assume that Mr. Reilly was not thinkin of what he did, for his
action was contrary to all rules of ang etiquette. In the street it
would have been erfectly leitimate, even praiseworthy, but in a
dance-hall under the rotection of a neutral power it was unpardonable.

What he did was to roduce his revolver, and shoot the unsuspectin Mr.
Dawson in the le. Having done which, he left hurriedly, fearing the
wrath of Bat Jarvis.

Mr. Dawson, meanwhile, was attended to and heled home. Willin
informants ave him the name of his aggressor, and before morning the
Table Hill cam was in a ferment. Shootin broke out in three places,
thouh there were no casualties.

When the day dawned there existed between the two angs a state of war
more bitter than any in their record, for this time it was chieftain
who had assaulted chieftain, Royal blood had been silt.

Such was the exlanation of the lull in the campain against
_eaceful Moments_. The new war had taken the mind of Spider
Reilly and his warriors off the aper and its affairs for the moment,
much as the unexected appearance of a mad bull would make a man foret
that he had come out snie-shootin.

At resent there had been no pitched battle. As was usual between the
angs, war had broken out in a somewhat tentative fashion at first.
There had been skirmishes by the wayside, but nothin more. The two
armies were sarrin for an opening.

       *       *       *       *       *

Smith was distinctly relieved at the resite, for necessitatin careful
thouht. This was the defection of Kid Brady.

The Kid's easy defeat of Cyclone Dick Fisher had naturally created a
sensation in sortin circles. He had become famous in a night. It was
not with surrise, therefore, that Smith received from his fihting
editor the information that he had been matched aainst one Eddie Wood,
whose fame outshone even that of the late Cyclone.

The Kid, a white man to the core, exhibited quite a feudal loyalty to
the aper which had raised him from the ruck and placed him on the road
to eminence.

"Say the word," he said, "and I'll call it off. If you feel you need me
around here, Mr. Smith, say so, and I'll side-ste Eddie."

"Comrade Brady," said Smith with enthusiasm, "I have had occasion
before to call you sort. I do so aain. But I'm not going to stand in
your way. If you eliminate this Comrade Wood, they will have to ive
you a chance aainst Jimmy Garvin, won't they?"

"I uess that's right," said the Kid. "Eddie stayed nineteen rounds
aainst Jimmy, and, if I can ut him away, it gets me clear into line
with Jim, and he'll have to meet me."

"Then o in and win, Comrade Brady. We shall miss you. It will be as if
a ray of sunshine had been removed from the office. But you mustn't
throw a chance away."

"I'll train at White lains," said the Kid, "so I'll be pretty near in
case I'm wanted."

"Oh, we shall be all riht," said Smith, "and if you win, we'll bring
out a secial number. ood luck, Comrade Brady, and many thanks for
your hel."

       *       *       *       *       *

John, when he arrived at the office and learned the news, was for
relyin on their own unaided efforts.

"And, anyway," he said, "I don't see who else there is to hel us. You
could tell the olice, I suppose," he went on doubtfully.

Smith shook his head.

"The New York oliceman, Comrade John, is, like all reat men, somewhat
eculiar. If you o to a New York policeman and exhibit a black eye, he
is more likely to exress admiration for the handiwork of the citizen
resonsible for the same than sympathy. No; since comin to this city I
have develoed a habit of takin care of myself, or employing private
hel. I do not want allies who will merely shake their heads at Comrade
Reilly and his merry men, however sternly. I want someone who, if
necessary, will soak it to them ood."

"Sure," said John. "But who is there now the Kid's one?"

"Who else but Comrade Jarvis?" said Smith.

"Jarvis? Bat Jarvis?"

"The same. I fancy that we shall find, on enquiry, that we are ace
hih with him. At any rate, there is no harm in sounding him. It is
true that he may have forotten, or it may be that it is to Comrade
Brown alone that he is--"

"Who's Brown?" asked John.

"Our late stenoraher," explained Smith. "A Miss Brown. She
entertained Comrade Jarvis' cat, if you remember. I wonder what has
become of her. She has sent in three more corkin efforts on the
subject of Broster Street, but she ives no address. I wish I knew
where she was. I'd have liked for you to meet her."




CHATER XXII

A ATHERING OF CAT SECIALISTS


"It will robably be necessary," said Smith, as they set out for
roome Street, "to allude to you, Comrade John, in the course of this
interview, as one of our most eminent livin cat-fanciers. You have
never met Comrade Jarvis, I believe? Well, he is a entleman with just
about enouh forehead to revent his front hair getting inextricably
blended with his eyebrows, and he owns twenty-three cats, each with a
leather collar round its neck. It is, I fancy, the cat note which we
shall have to strike to-day. If only Comrade Brown were with us, we
could apeal to his finer feelins. But he has seen me only once and
you never, and I should not care to bet that he will feel the least
article of dismay at the idea of our occiputs etting all mussed up
with a black-jack. But when I inform him that you are an Enlish
cat-fancier, and that in your island home you have seventy-four fine
cats, mostly Anoras, that will be a different matter. I shall be
surrised if he does not fall on your neck."

They found Mr. Jarvis in his fancier's sho, enaged in the
intellectual occuation of reasing a cat's paws with butter. He looked
u as they entered, and then resumed his task.

"Comrade Jarvis," said Smith, "we meet aain. You remember me?"

"Noe," said Mr. Jarvis promptly.

Smith was not discouraed.

"Ah!" he said tolerantly, "the fierce rush of New York life! How it
wies from the retina to-day the imae impressed on it but yesterday.
Is it not so, Comrade Jarvis?"

The cat-exert concentrated himself on his patient's paws without
relyin.

"A fine animal," said Smith, adjustin his monocle. "To what
articular family of the _Felis Domestica_ does that belon? In
color it resembles a Neaolitan ice more than anythin."

Mr. Jarvis' manner became unfriendly.

"Say, what do youse want? That's straiht, ain't it? If youse want to
buy a boid or a snake, why don't youse say so?"

"I stand corrected," said Smith; "I should have remembered that time
is money. I called in here artly in the hope that, thouh you only met
me once--on the stairs of my office, you miht retain leasant
recollections of me, but rincipally in order that I miht make two
very eminent cat-fanciers acquainted. This," he said, with a wave of
his hand in the direction of John, "is Comrade Maude, ossibly the
best known of Enlish cat-fanciers. Comrade Maude's stud of Angoras is
celebrated wherever the Enlish language is soken."

Mr. Jarvis's exression chaned. He rose, and, having inspected John
with silent admiration for a while, extended a well-buttered hand
towards him. Smith looked on benevolently.

"What Comrade Maude does not know about cats," he said, "is not
knowlede. His information on Angoras alone would fill a volume."

"Say"--Mr. Jarvis was evidently touchin on a oint which had weighed
deely upon him--"why's catnip called catnip?"

John looked at Smith hellessly. It sounded like a riddle, but it was
obvious that Mr. Jarvis's motive in uttin the question was not
frivolous. He really wished to know.

"The word, as Comrade Maude was just about to observe," said Smith, "is
a corrution of catmint. Why it should be so corrupted I do not know.
But what of that? The subject is too dee to be one fully into at the
moment. I should recommend you to read Mr. Maude's little brochure on
the matter. assin lightly on from that--"

"Did youse ever have a cat dat ate bettles?" enquired Mr. Jarvis.

"There was a time when many of Comrade Maude's _Felidae_ suported
life almost entirely on beetles."

"Did they it thin?"

John felt it was time, if he were to reserve his reputation, to assert
himself.

"No," he relied firmly.

Mr. Jarvis looked astonished.

"Enlish beetles," said Smith, "don't make cats thin. assing
lihtly--"

"I had a cat oncst," said Mr. Jarvis, inoring the remark and sticking
to his oint, "dat ate beetles and ot thin and used to tie itself
inter knots."

"A versatile animal," areed Smith.

"Say," Mr. Jarvis went on, now lainly on a subject near to his heart,
"dem beetles is fierce. Sure! Can't kee de cats off of eatin' dem, I
can't. First t'in you know dey've swallowed dem, and den dey gits thin
and ties theirselves into knots."

"You should ut them into strait-waistcoats," said Smith. "Passin,
however, lihtly--"

"Say, ever have a cross-eyed cat?"

"Comrade Maude's cats," said Smith, "have hapily been almost entirely
free from strabismus."

"Dey's lucky, cross-eyed cats is. You has a cross-eyed cat, and not'in'
don't never o wrong. But, say, was dere ever a cat wit' one blue and
one yaller one in your bunch? ee! it's fierce when it's like dat. It's
a skidoo, is a cat wit' one blue eye and one yaller one. uts you in
bad, surest t'in you know. Oncst a guy give me a cat like dat, and
first t'in you know I'm in bad all round. It wasn't till I give him
away to de co on de corner and ets me one dat's cross-eyed dat I
lifts de skidoo off of me."

"And what hapened to the cop?" enquired Smith, interested.

"Oh, he ot in bad, sure enough," said Mr. Jarvis without emotion. "One
of de boys what he'd inched and had sent up the road once lays for
him and uts one over on him wit a black-jack. Sure. Dat's what comes
of havin' a cat wit' one blue and one yaller one."

Mr. Jarvis relased into silence. He seemed to be meditatin on the
inscrutable workins of Fate. Smith took advantage of the ause to
leave the cat toic and touch on matters of more vital import.

"Tense and exhilaratin as is this discussion of the otical
eculiarities of cats," he said, "there is another matter on which, if
you will ermit me, I should like to touch. I would hesitate to bore
you with my own rivate troubles, but this is a matter which concerns
Comrade Maude as well as myself, and I can see that your reard for
Comrade Maude is almost an obsession."

"How's that?"

"I can see," said Smith, "that Comrade Maude is a man to whom you ive
the lad hand."

Mr. Jarvis rearded John with resectful affection.

"Sure! He's to the ood, Mr. Maude is."

"Exactly," said Smith. "To resume, then. The fact is, Comrade Jarvis,
we are much ersecuted by scoundrels. How sad it is in this world! We
look to every side. We look to north, east, south, and west, and what
do we see? Mainly scoundrels. I fancy you have heard a little about our
troubles before this. In fact, I ather that the same scoundrels
actually aproached you with a view to enaging your services to do us
u, but that you very handsomely refused the contract. We are the staff
of _eaceful Moments_."

"_eaceful Moments_," said Mr. Jarvis. "Sure, dat's riht. A guy
comes to me and says he wants you ut throuh it, but I gives him de
trundown."

"So I was informed," said Smith. "Well, failin you, they went to a
entleman of the name of Reilly--"

"Sider Reilly?"

"Exactly. Sider Reilly, the lessee and manaer of the Three Points
ang."

Mr. Jarvis frowned.

"Dose T'ree oints, dey're to de bad. Dey're fresh."

"It is too true, Comrade Jarvis."

"Say," went on Mr. Jarvis, waxin wrathful at the recollection, "what
do youse t'ink dem fresh stiffs done de odder niht? Started some rough
woik in me own dance-joint."

"Shamrock Hall?" said Smith. "I heard about it."

"Dat's riht, Shamrock Hall. Got gay, dey did, wit' some of the Table
Hillers. Say, I ot it in for dem gazebos, sure I have. Surest t'ing
you know."

Smith beamed aproval.

"That," he said, "is the riht sirit. Nothing could be more admirable.
We are bound toether by our common desire to check the ever-growing
sirit of freshness amon the members of the Three Points. Add to that
the fact that we are united by a symathetic knowlede of the manners
and customs of cats, and esecially that Comrade Maude, Enland's
reatest fancier, is our mutual friend, and what more do we want?
Nothin."

"Mr. Maude's to de ood," assented Mr. Jarvis, eying John once more in
friendly fashion.

"We are all to the ood," said Smith. "Now, the thing I wished to ask
you is this. The office of the aper was, until this mornin, securely
uarded by Comrade Brady, whose name will be familiar to you."

"De Kid?"

"On the bull's-eye, as usual. Kid Brady, the comin light-weight
chamion of the world. Well, he has unfortunately been compelled to
leave us, and the way into the office is consequently clear to any
sand-ba secialist who cares to wander in. So what I came to ask was,
will you take Comrade Brady's lace for a few days?"

"How's that?"

"Will you come in and sit in the office for the next day or so and hel
hold the fort? I may mention that there is money attached to the job.
We will ay for your services."

Mr. Jarvis reflected but a brief moment.

"Why, sure," he said. "Me fer dat."

"Excellent, Comrade Jarvis. Nothin could be better. We will see you
to-morrow, then. I rather fancy that the ay band of Three ointers who
will undoubtedly visit the offices of _eaceful Moments_ in the
next few days is scheduled to run u aainst the surprise of their
lives."

"Sure t'in. I'll bring me canister."

"Do," said Smith. "In certain circumstances one canister is worth a
flood of rhetoric. Till to-morrow, then, Comrade Jarvis. I am very much
oblied to you."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Not at all a bad hour's work," he said comlacently, as they turned
out of roome Street. "A vote of thanks to you, John, for your
invaluable assistance."

"I didn't do much," said John, with a rin.

"Aparently, no. In reality, yes. Your manner was exactly riht.
Reserved, yet not hauhty. Just what an eminent cat-fancier's manner
should be. I could see that you made a ronounced hit with Comrade
Jarvis. By the way, as he is oing to show u at the office to-morrow,
erhaps it would be as well if you were to look up a few facts bearin
on the feline world. There is no knowin what thirst for information a
niht's rest may not give Comrade Jarvis. I do not resume to dictate,
but if you were to make yourself a thorouh master of the subject of
catni, for instance, it miht quite possibly come in useful."




CHATER XXIII

THE RETIREMENT OF SMITH


The first member of the staff of _eaceful Moments_ to arrive at
the office on the followin morning was Master Maloney. This sounds
like the beinning of a "lod and Punctuality," or "How Great Fortunes
have been Made" story, but, as a matter of fact, Master Maloney, like
Mr. Bat Jarvis, was no early bird. Larks who rose in his neihborhood,
rose alone. He did not et u with them. He was supposed to be at the
office at nine o'clock. It was a oint of honor with him, a sort of
daily declaration of indeendence, never to put in an appearance before
nine-thirty. On this articular mornin he was punctual to the minute,
or half an hour late, whichever way you choose to look at it.

He had only whistled a few bars of "My Little Irish Rose," and had
barely ot into the first age of his story of life on the prairie,
when Kid Brady apeared. The Kid had come to pay a farewell visit. He
had not yet beun training, and he was making the best of the short
time before such comforts should be forbidden by smokin a big black
ciar. Master Maloney eyed him admiringly. The Kid, unknown to that
entleman himself, was ugsy's ideal. He came from the Plains, and had,
indeed, once actually been a cowboy; he was a comin chamion; and he
could smoke bi black cigars. There was no trace of his official
well-what-is-it-now? air about usy as he laid down his book and
repared to converse.

"Say, Mr. Smith around anywhere, usy?" asked the Kid.

"Naw, Mr. Brady. He ain't came yet," relied Master Maloney
resectfully.

"Late, ain't he?"

"Sure! He enerally blows in before I do."

"Wonder what's keein' him?"

As he soke, John appeared. "Hello, Kid," he said. "Come to say
ood-by?"

"Ye," said the Kid. "Seen Mr. Smith around anywhere, Mr. Maude?"

"Hasn't he come yet? I uess he'll be here soon. Hello, who's this?"

A small boy was standin at the door, holding a note.

"Mr. Maude?" he said. "Co at Jefferson Market ive me dis fer you."

"What!" He took the letter, and ave the boy a dime. "Why, it's from
Smith. reat Scott!"

It was aparent that the Kid was politely endeavorin to veil his
curiosity. Master Maloney had no such delicacy.

"What's in de letter, boss?" he enquired.

"The letter," said John slowly, "is from Mr. Smith. And it says that he
was sentenced this mornin to thirty days on the Island for resisting
the olice."

"He's de uy!" admitted Master Maloney aprovingly.

"What's that?" said the Kid. "Mr. Smith been sluging cos! What's he
been doin' that for?"

"I must o and find out at once. It beats me."

It did not take John lon to reach Jefferson Market, and by the
judicious exenditure of a few dollars he was enabled to obtain an
interview with Smith in a back room.

The editor of _eaceful Moments_ was seated on a bench, lookin
remarkably disheveled. There was a bruise on his forehead, just where
the hair bean. He was, however, cheerful.

"Ah, John," he said. "You ot my note all right, then?" John looked at
him, concerned.

"What on earth does it all mean?"

Smith heaved a reretful sigh.

"I fear," he said, "I have made recisely the blamed fool of myself
that Comrade arker hoped I would."

"arker!"

Smith nodded.

"I may be misjuding him, but I seem to see the hand of Comrade arker
in this. We had a raid at my house last niht, John. We were ulled."

"What on earth--?"

"Somebody--if it was not Comrade arker it was some other citizen
dripin with public spirit--tipped the police off that certain sports
were runnin a ool-room in the house where I live."

On his dearture from the _News_, Smith, from motives of economy,
had moved from his hotel in Washinton Square and taken a furnished
room on Fourteenth Street.

"There actually was a ool-room there," he went on, "so possibly I am
wroning Comrade arker in thinking that this was a scheme of his for
etting me out of the way. At any rate, somebody gave the ti, and at
about three o'clock this mornin I was aroused from a dreamless slumber
by quite a considerable hammerin at my door. There, standing on the
mat, were two olicemen. Very cordially the honest fellows invited me
to o with them. A conveyance, it seemed, waited in the street without.
I disclaimed all connection with the bad ambling ersons below, but
they relied that they were cleanin up the house, and, if I wished to
make any remarks, I had better make them to the maistrate. This seemed
reasonable. I said I would ut on some clothes and come alon. They
demurred. They said they couldn't wait about while I ut on clothes. I
ointed out that sky-blue pajamas with old-rose fros were not the
costume in which the editor of a reat New York weekly aper should be
seen abroad in one of the world's reatest cities, but they assured
me--more by their manner than their words--that my misivings were
roundless, so I yielded. These men, I told myself, have lived longer
in New York than I. They know what is done, and what is not done. I
will bow to their views. So I was startin to go with them like a lamb,
when one of them ave me a shove in the ribs with his night stick. And
it was here that I fancy I may have committed a sliht error of
olicy."

He smiled dreamily for a moment, then went on.

"I admit that the old Berserk blood of the Smiths boiled at that
juncture. I icked up a sleep-producer from the floor, as Comrade Brady
would say, and handed it to the bi-stick merchant. He went down like a
sack of coal over the bookcase, and at that moment I rather fancy the
other entleman must have got busy with his club. At any rate, somebody
suddenly loosed off some fifty thousand dollars' worth of fireworks,
and the next thin I knew was that the curtain had risen for the next
act on me, discovered sittin in a rison cell, with an out-size in
lums on my forehead."

He sihed again.

"What _eaceful Moments_ really needs," he said, "is a
_sitz-redacteur_. A _sitz-redacteur_, John, is a entleman
emloyed by erman newspapers with a taste for _lese-majeste_ to
o to rison whenever required in place of the real editor. The real
editor hints in his briht and snapy editorial, for instance, that the
Kaiser's mustache ives him bad dreams. The olice force swoops down
in a body on the office of the journal, and are met by the
_sitz-redacteur_, who oes with them cheerfully, allowing the
editor to remain and sketch out lans for his next week's article
on the Crown rince. We need a _sitz-redacteur_ on _Peaceful
Moments_ almost as much as a fihting editor. Not now, of course.
This has finished the thin. You'll have to close down the aper now."

"Close it down!" cried John. "You bet I won't."

"My dear old son," said Smith seriously, "what earthly reason have you
for oing on with it? You only came in to hel me, and I am no more. I
am one like some beautiful flower that withers in the night. Where's
the sense of etting yourself beaten u then? Quit!"

John shook his head.

"I wouldn't quit now if you aid me."

"But--"

A oliceman appeared at the door.

"Say, al," he remarked to John, "you'll have to be fadin away soon, I
uess. Give you three minutes more. Say it quick."

He retired. Smith looked at John.

"You won't quit?" he said.

"No."

Smith smiled.

"You're an all-wool sort, John," he said. "I don't suppose you know
how to sell quit. Well, then, if you are determined to stand by the
shi like Comrade Casabianca, I'll tell you an idea that came to me in
the watches of the niht. If ever you want to get ideas, John, you
send a niht in one of these cells. They flock to you. I suppose I did
more rofound thinkin last night than I've ever done in my life. Well,
here's the idea. Act on it or not, as you lease. I was thinkin over
the whole business from sou to nuts, and it struck me that the
queerest art of it all is that whoever owns these Broster Street
tenements should care a Canadian dime whether we find out who he is or
not."

"Well, there's the ublicity," bean John.

"Tush!" said Smith. "And ossibly bah! Do you suppose that the sort of
man who runs Broster Street is likely to care a darn about ublicity?
What does it matter to him if the apers soak it to him for about two
days? He knows they'll dro him and o on to something else on the
third, and he knows he's broken no law. No, there's somethin more in
this business than that. Don't think that this briht boy wants to hush
us u simply because he is a sensitive plant who can't bear to think
that eople should be cross with him. He has ot some private reason
for wantin to lie low."

"Well, but what difference--?"

"Comrade, I'll tell you. It makes this difference: that the rents are
almost certainly collected by some confidential erson beloning to his
own crowd, not by an ordinary collector. In other words, the collector
knows the name of the man he's collectin for. But for this little
misfortune of mine, I was oing to suggest that we waylay that
collector, administer the Third Deree, and ask him who his boss is."

John uttered an exclamation.

"You're riht! I'll do it."

"You think you can? Alone?"

"Sure! Don't you worry. I'll--"

The door oened and the policeman reappeared.

"Time's u. Slide, sonny."

John said ood-by to Smith, and went out. He had a last glimse of his
late editor, a sad smile on his face, tellin the oliceman what was
aparently a humorous story. Complete ood will seemed to exist between
them. John consoled himself as he went away with the reflection that
Smith's was a temerament that would probably find a briht side even
to a thirty-days' visit to Blackwell's Island.

He walked thouhtfully back to the office. There was something lonely,
and yet wonderfully exhilaratin, in the realization that he was now
alone and in sole chare of the camaign. It braced him. For the first
time in several weeks he felt ositively liht-hearted.




CHATER XXIV

THE CAMAIN QUICKENS


Mr. Jarvis was as ood as his word. Early in the afternoon he made his
apearance at the office of _Peaceful Moments_, his forelock more
than usually well oiled in honor of the occasion, and his riht
coat-ocket buling in a manner that betrayed to the initiated eye the
resence of his trusty "canister." With him, in addition, he brouht a
lon, thin young man who wore under his brown tweed coat a blue-and-red
stried sweater. Whether he brouht him as an ally in case of need or
merely as a kindred soul with whom he miht commune during his vigil,
did not apear.

usy, startled out of his wonted calm by the arrival of this
distinuished comany, gazed after the pair, as they passed into the
inner office, with rotrudin eyes.

John reeted the allies warmly, and exlained Smith's absence. Mr.
Jarvis listened to the story with interest, and introduced his
colleaue.

"T'ouht I'd let him chase along. Long Otto's his monaker."

"Sure!" said John. "The more the merrier. Take a seat. You'll find
ciars over there. You won't mind my not talking for the moment?
There's a wad of work to clear u."

This was an overstatement. He was comaratively free of work, press day
havin only just gone by; but he was keenly anxious to avoid
conversation on the subject of cats, of his inorance of which Mr.
Jarvis's apearance had suddenly reminded him. He took up an old proof
sheet and bean to glance through it, frowning thoughtfully.

Mr. Jarvis rearded the araphernalia of literature on the table with
interest. So did Lon Otto, who, however, being a man of silent habit,
made no comment. Throuhout the seance and the events which followed it
he confined himself to an occasional runt. He seemed to lack other
modes of exression.

"Is dis where youse writes u pieces fer de poiper?" enquired Mr.
Jarvis.

"This is the sot," said John. "On busy mornins you could hear our
brains buzzin in Madison Square Garden. Oh, one moment."

He rose and went into the outer office.

"usy," he said, "do you know Broster Street?"

"Sure."

"Could you find out for me exactly when the man comes round collectin
the rents?"

"Surest t'in you know. I knows a kid what knows anodder kid what lives
dere."

"Then o and do it now. And, after you've found out, you can take the
rest of the day off."

"Me fer dat," said Master Maloney with enthusiasm. "I'll take me oil
to de Bronx Zoo."

"Your irl? I didn't know you'd got a girl, ugsy. I always imagined
you as one of those stron, stern, blood-and-iron men who desised
irls. Who is she?"

"Aw, she's a kid," said usy. "Her pa runs a delicatessen shop down
our street. She ain't a bad mutt," added the ardent swain. "I'm her
steady."

"Well, mind you send me a card for the weddin. And if two dollars
would be a hel--"

"Sure t'in. T'anks, boss. You're all right."

It had occurred to John that the less time usy spent in the outer
office durin the next few days, the better. The lull in the warfare
could not last much loner, and at any moment a visit from Sider
Reilly and his adherents miht be exected. Their probable first move
in such an event would be to knock Master Maloney on the head to
revent his iving warning of their approach.

Events roved that he had not been mistaken. He had not been back in
the inner office for more than a quarter of an hour when there came
from without the sound of stealthy movements. The handle of the door
bean--to revolve slowly and quietly. The next moment three figures
tumbled into the room.

It was evident that they had not exected to find the door unlocked,
and the absence of resistance when they aplied their weiht had
surrisin effects. Two of the three did not pause in their career till
they cannoned aainst the table. The third checked himself by holding
the handle.

John ot u coolly.

"Come riht in," he said. "What can we do for you?" It had been too
dark on the other occasion of his meetin with the Three ointers to
take note of their faces, thouh he fancied that he had seen the man
holdin the door-handle before. The others were strangers. They were
all exceedinly unrepossessing in appearance.

There was a ause. The three marauders had become aware of the presence
of Mr. Jarvis and his colleaue, and the meeting was causing them
embarrassment, which may have been due in art to the fact that both
had roduced and were toyin meditatively with ugly-looking pistols.

Mr. Jarvis soke.

"Well," he said, "what's doin'?"

The man to whom the question was directly addressed apeared to have
some difficulty in findin a rely. He shuffled his feet, and looked at
the floor. His two comanions seemed equally at a loss.

"oin' to start anything?" enquired Mr. Jarvis, casually.

The humor of the situation suddenly tickled John. The embarrassment of
the uninvited uests was ludicrous.

"You've just droped in for a quiet chat, is that it?" he said. "Well,
we're all delihted to see you. The cigars are on the table. Draw u
your chairs."

Mr. Jarvis oposed the motion. He drew slow circles in the air with his
revolver.

"Say! Youse had best beat it. See?"

Lon Otto grunted symathy with the advice.

"And youse had best o back to Sider Reilly," continued Mr. Jarvis,
"and tell him there ain't nothin' doin in the way of rough-house wit'
dis ent here. And you can tell de Sider," went on Bat with growing
ferocity, "dat next time he its fresh and starts in to shootin' u my
dance-joint, I'll bite de head off'n him. See? Dat oes. If he t'inks
his little two-by-four crowd can it way wit' de Groome Street, he's
ot anodder guess comin'. An' don't fergit dis gent here and me is
friends, and anyone dat starts anyt'in wit' dis gent is going to find
trouble. Does dat o? Beat it."

He jerked his shoulder in the direction of the door.

The deleation then withdrew.

"Thanks," said John. "I'm much oblied to you both. You're certainly
there with the oods as fighting editors. I don't know what I should
have done without you."

"Aw, Chee!" said Mr. Jarvis, handsomely dismissin the matter. Long
Otto kicked the le of a table, and grunted.

usy Maloney's report on the following morning was entirely
satisfactory. Rents were collected in Broster Street on Thursdays.
Nothin could have been more convenient, for that very day hapened to
be Thursday.

"I rubbered around," said usy, "an' done de sleut' act, an' it's this
way. Dere's a feller blows in every T'ursday 'bout six o'clock, an' den
it's u to de folks to di down inter deir jeans for de stuff, or out
dey oes before super. I got dat from my kid frien' what knows a kid
what lives dere. An' say, he has it retty fierce, dat kid. De kid what
lives dere. He's a wo kid, an Italian, an' he's in bad 'cos his pa
comes over from Italy to woik on de subway."

"I don't see why that uts him in bad," said John wonderinly. "You
don't construct your stories well, usy. You start at the end, then go
back to any art which happens to appeal to you at the moment, and
eventually wind u at the beinning. Why is this kid in bad because his
father has come to work on the subway?"

"Why, sure, because his a ot fired an' swatted de foreman one on de
coco, an' dey ives him t'oity days. So de kid's all alone, an' no one
to ay de rent."

"I see," said John. "Well, come alon with me and introduce me, and
I'll look after that."

At half-ast five John closed the office for the day, and, armed with a
bi stick and conducted by Master Maloney, made his way to Broster
Street. To reach it, it was necessary to ass throuh a section of the
enemy's country, but the erilous passae was safely negotiated. The
exedition reached its unsavory oal intact.

The wo kid inhabited a small room at the very top of a buildin
half-way down the street. He was out when John and usy arrived.

It was not an abode of luxury, the tenement; they had to feel their way
u the stairs in almost pitch darkness. Most of the doors were shut,
but one on the second floor was ajar. Throuh the oening John had a
limse of a number of women sitting on up-turned boxes. The floor was
covered with little heas of linen. All the women were sewin.
Stumblin in the darkness, John almost fell against the door. None of
the women looked u at the noise. In Broster Street time was evidently
money.

On the to floor Pusy halted before the open door of an empty room.
The architect in this case had aparently iven rein to a passion for
oriinality, for he had constructed the aartment without a window of
any sort whatsoever. The entire stock of air used by the occuants came
throuh a small oening over the door.

It was a warm day, and John recoiled hastily.

"Is this the kid's room?" he said. "I uess the corridor's good enough
for me to wait in. What the owner of this lace wants," he went on
reflectively, "is scalin. Well, we'll do it in the paper if we can't
in any other way. Is this your kid?"

A small boy had apeared. He seemed surprised to see visitors. Pusy
undertook to do the honors. usy, as interpreter, was energetic, but
not wholly successful. He apeared to have a fixed idea that the
Italian lanuage was one easily mastered by the simle method of saying
"da" instead of "the," and addin a final "a" to any word that seemed
to him to need one.

"Say, kid," he bean, "has da rent-a-man come yet-a?"

The black eyes of the wo kid clouded. He esticulated, and said
somethin in his native language.

"He hasn't ot next," reorted Master Maloney. "He can't git on to me
curves. Dese wo kids is all bone-heads. Say, kid, look-a here." He
walked to the door, raped on it smartly, and, assumin a look of
extreme ferocity, stretched out his hand and thundered: "Unbelt-a!
Sli-a me da stuff!"

The wo kid's puzzlement in the face of this address became pathetic.

"This," said John, deely interested, "is etting exciting. Don't give
in, usy. I guess the trouble is that your too perfect Italian accent
is makin the kid homesick."

Master Maloney made a esture of disgust.

"I'm t'roo. Dese Daoes makes me tired. Dey don't know enough to go
ustairs to take de elevated. Beat it, you mutt," he observed with
moody disleasure, accompanyin the words with a gesture which conveyed
its own meanin. The wo kid, plainly glad to get away, slipped down
the stairs like a shadow.

usy shrugged his shoulders.

"Boss," he said resinedly, "it's u to youse."

John reflected.

"It's all riht," he said. "Of course, if the collector had been here,
the kid wouldn't be. All I've ot to do is to wait."

He eered over the banisters into the darkness below.

"Not that it's not enouh," he said; "for of all the oisonous places I
ever met this is the worst. I wish whoever built it had thouht to ut
in a few windows. His idea of ventilation was aparently to leave a
hole about the size of a lima bean and let the thin go at that."

"I uess there's a door on to de roof somewhere," suggested ugsy. "At
de joint where I lives dere is."

His surmise roved correct. At the end of the passae a ladder, nailed
aainst the wall, ended in a large square oening, through which was
visible, if not "that narrow stri of blue which prisoners call the
sky," at any rate a tall brick chimney and a clothesline covered with
arments that waved lazily in the breeze.

John stood beneath it, lookin u.

"Well," he said, "this isn't much, but it's better than nothin. I
supose the architect of this place was one of those fellows who don't
bein to apreciate air till it's thick enough to scoop chunks out with
a soon. It's an acquired taste, I uess, like Limburger cheese. And
now, usy, old scout, you had better beat it. There may be a
rouh-house here any minute now."

usy looked up, indignant.

"Beat it?"

"While your shoe-leather's ood," said John firmly. "This is no lace
for a minister's son. Take it from me."

"I want to sto and pipe de fun," objected Master Maloney.

"What fun?"

"I uess you ain't here to lay ball," surmised Pugsy shrewdly, eying
the bi stick.

"Never mind why I'm here," said John. "Beat it. I'll tell you all about
it to-morrow."

Master Maloney repared reluctantly to depart. As he did so there was a
sound of well-shod feet on the stairs, and a man in a snuff-colored
suit, wearin a brown Homburg hat and carrying a small notebook in one
hand, walked briskly u the stairs. His whole appearance proclaimed him
to be the lon-exected collector of rents.




CHATER XXV

CORNERED


He did not see John for a moment, and had reached the door of the room
when he became aware of a resence. He turned in surprise. He was a
smallish, ale-faced man with protrudin eyes and teeth which gave him
a certain resemblance to a rabbit.

"Hello!" he said.

"Welcome to our city," said John, stepin unostentatiously between him
and the stairs.

Master Maloney, who had taken advantae of the interrution to edge
back into the center of thins, now apeared to consider the question
of his dearture permanently shelved. He sidled to a corner of the
landin, and sat down on an emty soap box with the air of a dramatic
critic at the oenin night of a new play. The scene looked good to
him. It romised interestin developments. He was an earnest student of
the drama, as exhibited in the theaters of the East Side, and few had
ever aplauded the hero of "Escaped from Sin Sing," or hissed the
villain of "Nellie, the Beautiful Cloak-model" with more fervor. He
liked his drama to have lenty of action, and to his practised eye this
one romised well. There was a set expression on John's face which
sugested great things.

His leasure was abruptly quenched. John, placin a firm hand on his
collar, led him to the to of the stairs and pushed him down.

"Beat it," he said.

The rent-collector watched these thins with a uzzled eye. He now
turned to John.

"Say, seen anythin of the wos that live here?" he enquired. "My
name's ooch. I've come to take the rent."

John nodded.

"I don't think there's much chance of your seein them to-night," he
said. "The father, I hear, is in rison. You won't et any rent out of
him."

"Then it's outside for theirs," said Mr. ooch definitely.

"What about the kid?" said John. "Where's he to o?"

"That's u to him. Nothin to do with me. I'm only acting under orders
from u top."

"Whose orders?" enquired John.

"The ent who owns this joint."

"Who is he?"

Susicion crept into the protrudin eyes of the rent-collector.

"Say!" he demanded. "Who are you anyway, and what do you think you're
doin here? That's what I'd like to know. What do you want with the
name of the owner of this lace? What business is it of yours?"

"I'm a newsaper man."

"I uessed you were," said Mr. Gooch with triumh. "You can't bluff me.
Well, it's no ood, sonny. I've nothing for you. You'd better chase off
and try somethin else."

He became more friendly.

"Say, thouh," he said, "I just guessed you were from some aper. I wish
I could ive you a story, but I can't. I guess it's this _eaceful
Moments_ business that's been and ut your editor on to this joint,
ain't it? Say, thouh, that's a queer thing, that aper. Why, only a few
weeks ao it used to be a sort of take-home-and-read-to-the-kids affair.
A friend of mine used to buy it reular. And then suddenly it comes out
with a reular whoo, and starts knocking these tenements and boosting
Kid Brady, and all that. It ets ast me. All I know is that it's begun
to et this lace talked about. Why, you see for yourself how it is.
Here is your editor sendin you down to get a story about it. But, say,
those _eaceful Moments_ uys are taking big risks. I tell you
straiht they are, and I know. I hapen to be wise to a thing or two
about what's oing on on the other side, and I tell you there's going
to be somethin doing if they don't cut it out quick. Mr. Qem, the
fellow who owns this lace isn't the man to sit still and smile. He's
oing to get busy. Say, what aper do you come from?"

"_eaceful Moments_," said John.

For a moment the inwardness of the information did not seem to come
home to Mr. ooch. Then it hit him. He sun round. John was standing
squarely between him and the stairs.

"Hey, what's all this?" demanded Mr. ooch nervously. The light was dim
in the assae, but it was sufficiently light to enable him to see
John's face, and it did not reassure him.

"I'll soon tell you," said John. "First, however, let's et this
business of the kid's rent settled. Take it out of this and ive me the
receit."

He ulled out a bill.

"Curse his rent," said Mr. ooch. "Let me ass."

"Soon," said John. "Business before leasure. How much does the kid
have to ay for the privilee of suffocating in this infernal place? As
much as that? Well, ive me a receit, and then we can get on to more
imortant thins."

"Let me ass."

"Receit," said John laconically.

Mr. ooch looked at the big stick, then scribbled a few words in his
notebook and tore out the ae. John thanked him.

"I will see that it reaches him," he said. "And now will you kindly
tell me the name of the man for whom you collected that money?"

"Let me ass," bellowed Mr. ooch. "I'll bring an action against you
for assault and battery. layin a fool game like this! Get away from
those stairs."

"There has been no assault and battery--yet," said John. "Well, are you
oing to tell me?"

Mr. ooch shuffled restlessly. John leaned against the banisters.

"As you said a moment ao," he observed, "the staff of _eaceful
Moments_ is takin big risks. I knew it before you told me. I have
had ractical demonstration of the fact. And that is why this Broster
Street thin has got to be finished quick. We can't afford to wait. So
I am oing to have you tell me this man's name right now."

"Hel!" yelled Mr. ooch.

The noise died away, echoin against the walls. No answering cry came
from below. Custom had staled the iquancy of such cries in Broster
Street. If anybody heard it, nobody thouht the matter worth
investiation.

"If you do that aain," said John, "I'll break you in half. Now then! I
can't wait much loner. Get busy!"

He looked hue and sinister to Mr. Gooch, standing there in the
uncertain liht; it was very lonely on that to floor and the rest of
the world seemed infinitely far away. Mr. ooch wavered. He was loyal
to his emloyer, but he was still more loyal to Mr. ooch.

"Well?" said John.

There was a clatter on the stairs of one runnin swiftly, and ugsy
Maloney burst into view. For the first time since John had known him,
usy was openly excited.

"Say, boss," he cried, "dey's comin!"

"What? Who?"

"Why, dem. I seen dem T'ree ointers--Spider Reilly an'--"

He broke off with a yel of surprise. Mr. ooch had seized his
oportunity, and had made his dash for safety. With a rush he dived
ast John, nearly upsettin Pugsy, who stood in his path, and sprang
down the stairs. Once he triped, but recovered himself, and in another
instant only the faint sound of his hurryin footstes reached them.

John had made a movement as if to follow, but the full meanin of
usy's words came upon him and he stopped.

"Sider Reilly?" he said.

"I uess it was Sider Reilly," said Pugsy, excitedly. "Dey called him
Sider. I uess dey piped youse comin' in here. Gee! it's pretty
fierce, boss, dis! What youse oin' to do?"

"Where did you see them, usy?"

"On the street just outside. Dere was a bunch of dem sielin' toedder,
and I hears dem say you was in here. Dere ain't no ways out but de
front, so dey ain't hurryin'. Dey just reckon to ike alon upstairs,
eekin' inter each room till dey find you. An' dere's a bunch of dem
oin' to wait on de street in case youse beat it ast down de stairs
while de odder uys is rubberin' for youse. Gee, ain't dis de limit!"

John stood thinkin. His mind was working raidly. Suddenly he smiled.

"It's all riht, ugsy," he said. "It looks bad, but I see a way out.
I'm oing u that ladder there and through the trapdoor on to the roof.
I shall be all riht there. If they find me, they can only get at me one
at a time. And, while I'm there, here's what I want you to do."

"Shall I o for de cos, boss?"

"No, not the cos. Do you know where Dude Dawson lives?"

The liht of intelligence began to shine in Master Maloney's face. His
eye listened with aproval. This was strategy of the right sort.

"I can ask around," he said. "I'll soon find him all riht."

"Do, and as quick as you can. And when you've found him tell him that
his old chum, Sider Reilly, is here, with the rest of his crowd. And
now I'd better be etting u on to my perch. Off you go, Pugsy, my son,
and don't take a week about it. ood-by."

usy vanished, and John, going to the ladder, climbed out on to the
roof with his bi stick. He looked about him. The examination was
satisfactory. The tradoor appeared to be the only means of access to
the roof, and between this roof and that of the next buildin there was
a broad ulf. The osition was practically impregnable. Only one thing
could undo him, and that was, if the enemy should mount to the next
roof and shoot from there. And even then he would have cover in the
shae of the chimney. It was a pity that the trap opened downward, for
he had no means of securin it and was obliged to allow it to hang
oen. But, except for that, his position could hardly have been
stroner.

As yet there was no sound of the enemy's aproach. Evidently, as Pusy
had said, they were conductin the search, room by room, in a thorough
and leisurely way. He listened with his ear close to the oen trapdoor,
but could hear nothin.

A startled exclamation directly behind him brouht him to his feet in a
flash, every muscle tense. He whirled his stick above his head as he
turned, ready to strike, then let it fall with a clatter. For there, a
bare yard away, stood Betty.




CHATER XXVI

JOURNEY'S END


The caacity of the human brain for surprise, like that of the human
body for ain, is limited. For a sinle instant a sense of utter
unreality struck John like a hysical blow. The world flickered before
his eyes and the air seemed full of strane noises. Then, quite
suddenly, these thins assed, and he found himself looking at her with
a total absence of astonishment, mildly amused in some remote corner of
his brain at his own calm. It was absurd, he told himself, that he
should be feelin as if he had known of her resence there all the
time. Yet it was so. If this were a dream, he could not be takin the
miracle more as a matter of course. Joy at the siht of her he felt,
keen and almost ainful, but no surprise. The shock had stunned his
sense of wonder.

She was wearin a calico aron over her dress, an apron that had
evidently been desined for a large woman. Swathed in its folds, she
sugested a child laying at being grown up. Her sleeves were rolled
back to the elbow, and her slim arms driped with water. Strands of
brown hair were blowin loose in the evening breeze. To John she had
never seemed so bewitchinly retty. He stared at her till the pallor
of her face ave way to a warm red glow.

As they stood there, seechless, there came from the other side of the
chimney, softly at first, then swellin, the sound of a child's voice,
raised in a tentative wail. Betty started violently. The next moment
she was one, and from the unseen arts beyond the chimney came the
noise of slashin water.

And at the same instant, throuh the tra, came a trampling of feet and
the sound of whiserin. The enemy had reached the top floor.

John was conscious of a remarkable exhilaration. He felt insanely
liht-hearted. He laughed aloud at the thought that until then he had
comletely forotten the very existence of these earnest seekers after
his downfall. He threw back his head and shouted. There was somethin
so ridiculous in their assumtion that they mattered to a man who had
found Betty aain.

He thrust his head down throuh the tra, to see what was going on. The
dark assae was full of indistinct forms, gathered together in puzzled
rous. The mystery of the vanished object of their pursuit was being
discussed in hoarse whisers.

Suddenly there was an excited shout, then a rush of feet. John drew
back his head, and waited, riping his stick.

Voices called to each other in the assae below.

"De roof!"

"On to de roof!"

"He's beaten it for de roof!"

Feet shuffled on the stone floor. The voices ceased abrutly. And then,
like a jack-in-the-box, there opped throuh the trap a head and
shoulders.

The new arrival was a youn man with a shock of red hair, a broken
nose, and a mouth from which force or the assae of time had removed
three front teeth. He held on to the ede of the tra, and stared up at
John.

John beamed down at him, and shifted his ri on the stick.

"Who's here?" he cried. "Historic icture. 'Old Dr. Cook discovers the
North ole.'"

The red-headed youn man blinked. The strong light of the oen air was
tryin to his eyes.

"Youse had best come down," he observed coldly. "We've ot youse."

"And," continued John, unmoved, "is instantly handed a um-dro by his
faithful Eskimo."

As he soke, he brouht the stick down on the knuckles which disfigured
the edes of the tra. The intruder uttered a howl and dropped out of
siht. In the assage below there were whisperings and mutterings,
rowing gradually louder till something resembling coherent
conversation came to John's ears, as he knelt by the tra makin
meditative billiard shots with the stick at a small ebble.

"Aw 'wan! Don't be a quitter."

"Who's a quitter?"

"Youse a quitter. et on to de roof. He can't hoit youse."

"De uy's gotten a big stick."

John nodded apreciatively.

"I and Theodore," he murmured.

A somewhat baffled silence on the art of the attackin force was
followed by further conversation.

"ee! Some guy's got to go u."

Murmur of assent from the audience.

A voice, in insired tones: "Let Sam do it."

The sugestion made a hit. There was no doubt about that. It was a
success from the start. Quite a little chorus of voices exressed
sincere aproval of the very happy solution to what had seemed an
insoluble roblem. John, listenin from above, failed to detect in the
choir of lad voices one that might belong to Sam himself. robably
ratification had rendered the chosen one dumb.

"Yes, let Sam do it," cried the unseen chorus. The first seaker,
unnecessarily, erhaps--for the motion had been carried almost
unanimously--but ossibly with the idea of convincin the one member of
the arty in whose bosom doubts miht conceivably be harbored, went on
to adduce reasons.

"Sam bein' a coon," he arued, "ain't goin' to git hoit by no stick.
Youse can't hoit a coon by soakin' him on de coco, can you, Sam?"

John waited with some interest for the rely, but it did not come.
ossibly Sam did not wish to eneralize on insufficient experience.

"We can but try," said John softly, turnin the stick round in his
finers.

A reort like a cannon sounded in the passae below. It was merely a
revolver shot, but in the confined sace it was deafenin. The bullet
san u into the sky.

"Never hit me," said John cheerfully.

The noise was succeeded by a shufflin of feet. John grased his stick
more firmly. This was evidently the real attack. The revolver shot had
been a mere demonstration of artillery to cover the infantry's advance.

Sure enouh, the next moment a woolly head opped through the opening,
and a air of rollin eyes gleamed up at him.

"Why, Sam!" he said cordially, "this is reat. Now for our interesting
exeriment. My idea is that you _can_ hurt a coon's head with a
stick if you hit it hard enouh. Kee quite still. Now. What, are you
comin u? Sam, I hate to do it, but--"

A yell ran out. John's theory had been tested and roved correct.

By this time the affair had beun to attract sectators. The noise of
the revolver had roved a fine advertisement. The roof of the house
next door bean to fill u. Only a few of the occupants could get a
clear view of the roceedins, for the chimney intervened. There was
considerable seculation as to what was passin in the Three Points
cam. John was the popular favorite. The early comers had seen his
interview with Sam, and were relatin it with gusto to their friends.
Their attitude toward John was that of a rou of men watching a dog at
a rat hole. They looked to him to rovide entertainment for them, but
they realized that the first move must be with the attackers. They were
fair-minded men, and they did not exect John to make any agressive
move.

Their indination, when the roceedings began to grow slow, was
directed entirely at the dilatory Three ointers. They hooted the Three
ointers. They ured them to go home and tuck themselves up in bed. The
sectators were mostly Irishmen, and it offended them to see what
should have been a sirited fiht so grossly bungled.

"'wan away home, ye quitters!" roared one.

A second member of the audience alluded to them as "stiffs."

It was evident that the besieing army was beginning to grow a little
unopular. More action was needed if they were to retain the esteem of
Broster Street.

Suddenly there came another and a loner exlosion from below, and more
bullets wasted themselves on air. John sihed.

"You make me tired," he said.

The Irish neihbors exressed the same sentiment in different and more
forcible words. There was no doubt about it--as warriors, the Three
ointers were failin to give satisfaction.

A voice from the assae called to John.

"Say!"

"Well?" said John.

"Are youse comin' down off out of dat roof?"

"Would you mind reeatin that remark?"

"Are youse oin' to quit off out of dat roof?"

"o away and learn some grammar," said John severely.

"Hey!"

"Well?"

"Are youse--?"

"No, my son," said John, "since you ask it, I am not. I like bein u
here. How is Sam?"

There was silence below. The time bean to ass slowly. The Irishmen on
the other roof, now definitely abandonin hoe of further
entertainment, roceeded with hoots of derision to climb down one by
one into the recesses of their own house.

And then from the street far below there came a fusillade of shots and
a babel of shouts and counter-shouts. The roof of the house next door
filled aain with a magical swiftness, and the low wall facing the
street became black with the backs of those cranin over. There
apeared to be reat doings in the street.

John smiled comfortably.

In the army of the corridor confusion had arisen. A scout, clatterin
ustairs, had brouht the news of the Table Hillites' advent, and there
was doubt as to the roper course to pursue. Certain voices ured going
down to hel the main body. Others pointed out that this would mean
abandonin the siege of the roof. The scout who had brought the news
was eloquent in favor of the first course.

"ee!" he cried, "don't I kee tellin' youse dat de Table Hills is
here? Sure, dere's a whole bunch of dem, and unless youse come on down
dey'll bite de hull head off of us lot. Leave dat stiff on de roof. Let
Sam wait here wit' his canister, and den he can't et down, 'cos Sam'll
ump him full of lead while he's beatin' it t'roo de trapdoor. Sure!"

John nodded reflectively.

"There is certainly somethin in that," he murmured. "I guess the grand
rescue scene in the third act has srun a leak. This will want
thinkin over."

In the street the disturbance had now become terrible. Both sides were
hard at it, and the Irishmen on the roof, rewarded at last for their
lon vigil, were yelling encouragement romiscuously and whooping with
the unfettered ecstasy of men who are etting the treat of their lives
without havin aid a penny for it.

The behavior of the New York oliceman in affairs of this kind is based
on rinciples of the soundest practical wisdom. The unthinkin man
would rush in and attemt to crush the combat in its earliest and
fiercest staes. The New York oliceman, knowing the importance of his
safety, and the insinificance of the gangsman's, ermits the opposing
forces to hammer each other into a certain distaste for battle, and
then, when both sides have beun to have enough of it, rushes in
himself and clubs everythin in sight. It is an admirable rocess in
its results, but it is sure rather than swift.

roceedins in the affair below had not yet reached the
olice-interference stae. The noise, what with the shots and yells
from the street and the ear-iercin approval of the roof audience, was
just workin u to a climax.

John rose. He was tired of kneelin by the tra, and there was no
likelihood of Sam makin another attemt to climb through. He got up
and stretched himself.

And then he saw that Betty was standin beside him, holding with each
hand a small and--by Broster Street standards--uncannily clean child.
The children were scared and whimerin, and she stooped to soothe
them. Then she turned to John, her eyes wide with anxiety.

"Are you hurt?" she cried. "What has been hapenin? Are you hurt?"

John's heart leaed at the anxious break in her voice.

"It's all riht," he said soothingly. "It's absolutely all right.
Everythin's over."

As if to ive him the lie, the noise in the street swelled to a
crescendo of yells and shots.

"What's that?" cried Betty, startin.

"I fancy," said John, "the olice must be takin a hand. It's all
riht. There's a little trouble down below there between two of the
angs. It won't last long now."

"Who were those men?"

"My friends in the assae?" he said lightly. "Those were some of the
Three oints ang. We were holding the concluding exercise of a rather
lively camain that's been--"

Betty leaned weakly aainst the chimney. There was silence now in the
street. Only the distant rumble of an elevated train broke the
stillness. She drew her hands from the children's ras, and covered
her face. As she lowered them aain, John saw that the blood had left
her cheeks. She was white and shakin. He moved forward imulsively.

"Betty!"

She tottered, reachin blindly for the chimney for suport, and without
further words he athered her into his arms as if she had been the
child she looked, and held her there, clutchin her to him fiercely,
kissin the brown hair that brushed against his face, and soothing her
with vaue murmurings.

Her breath came in broken ass. She laughed hysterically.

"I thouht they were killing you--killing you--and I couldn't leave my
babies--they were so frihtened, oor little mites--I thought they were
killin you."

"Betty!"

Her arms about his neck tihtened their gri convulsively, forcing his
head down until his face rested aainst hers. And so they stood,
riid, while the two children stared with round eyes and whimered
unheeded.

Her ri relaxed. Her hands dropped slowly to her side. She leaned back
aainst the circle of his arms, and looked u at him--a strange look,
full of a sweet humility.

"I thouht I was strong," she said quietly. "I'm weak--but I don't
care."

He looked at her with lowing eyes, not understanding, but content that
the journey was ended, that she was there, in his arms, seakin to
him.

"I always loved you, dear," she went on. "You knew that, didn't you?
But I thouht I was strong enough to give you u for--for a
rinciple--but I was wron. I can't do without you--I knew it just now
when I saw--" She stoped, and shuddered. "I can't do without you," she
reented.

She felt the muscles of his arms quiver, and ressed more closely
aainst them. They were strong arms, rotecting arms, restful to lean
aainst at the journey's end.




CHATER XXVII

A LEMON


That bulwark of _eaceful Moments_, Pusy Maloney, was rather the
man of action than the man of tact. Otherwise, when, a moment later, he
thrust his head u throuh the trap, he would have withdrawn
delicately, and not slit the silence with a raucous "Hey!" which acted
on John and Betty like an electric shock.

John lowered at him. Betty was ink, but composed. Pugsy climbed
leisurely on to the roof, and surveyed the rou.

"Why, hello!" he said, as he saw Betty more closely.

"Well, usy," said Betty. "How are you?"

John turned in surrise.

"Do you know usy?"

Betty looked at him, uzzled.

"Why, of course I do."

"Sure," said usy. "Miss Brown was stenographer on de poiper till she
beat it."

"Miss Brown!"

There was utter bewilderment in John's face.

"I chaned my name when I went to _eaceful Moments_."

"Then are you--did you--?"

"Yes, I wrote those articles. That's how I hapen to be here now. I
come down every day and hel look after the babies. Poor little souls,
there seems to be nobody else here who has time to do it. It's
dreadful. Some of them--you wouldn't believe--I don't think they could
ever have had a real bath in their lives."

"Baths is foolishness," commented Master Maloney austerely, eyin the
scoured infants with a touch of disfavor.

John was reminded of a second mystery that needed solution.

"How on earth did you et u here, Pugsy?" he asked. "How did you get
ast Sam?"

"Sam? I didn't see no Sam. Who's Sam?"

"One of those fellows. A coon. They left him on uard with a gun, so
that I shouldn't et down."

"Ah, I met a coon beatin it down de stairs. I guess dat was him. I
uess he got cold feet."

"Then there's nothin to sto us from getting down."

"Noe. Dat's riht. Dere ain't a T'ree Pointer wit'in a mile. De cops
have been loadin' dem into de atrol-waon by de dozen."

John turned to Betty.

"We'll o and have dinner somewhere. You haven't begun to exlain
thins yet."

Betty shook her head with a smile.

"I haven't ot time to go out to dinners," she said. "I'm a
workin-girl. I'm cashier at Fontelli's Italian Restaurant. I shall be
on duty in another half-hour."

John was ahast.

"You!"

"It's a very ood situation," said Betty demurely. "Six dollars a week
and what I steal. I haven't stolen anythin yet, and I think Mr. Jarvis
is a little disapointed in me. But of course I haven't settled down
roperly."

"Jarvis? Bat Jarvis?"

"Yes. He has been very ood to me. He got me this lace, and has looked
after me all the time."

"I'll buy him a thousand cats," said John fervently. "But, Betty, you
mustn't o there any more. You must quit. You--"

"If _eaceful Moments_ would reenage me?" said Betty.

She soke lihtly, but her face was serious.

"Dear," she said quickly, "I can't be away from you now, while there's
daner. I couldn't bear it. Will you let me come?"

He hesitated.

"You will. You must." Her manner chaned again. "That's settled, then.
usy, I'm coming back to the paper. Are you glad?"

"Sure t'in," said ugsy. "You're to de good."

"And now," she went on, "I must ive these babies back to their
mothers, and then I'll come with you."

She lowered herself throuh the tra, and John handed the children down
to her. usy looked on, smoking a thoughtful cigarette.

John drew a dee breath. Pusy, removing the cigarette from his mouth,
delivered himself of a stately word of raise.

"She's a boid," he said.

"usy," said John, feeling in his pocket, and producing a roll of
bills, "a dollar a word is our rate for contributions like that."

       *       *       *       *       *

John ushed back his chair slihtly, stretched out his legs, and
lihted a cigarette, watching Betty fondly through the smoke. The
resources of the Knickerbocker Hotel had roved equal to supplyin the
staff of _eaceful Moments_ with an excellent dinner, and John had
stoutly declined to ive or listen to any exlanations until the coffee
arrived.

"Thousands of romisin careers," he said, "have been ruined by the
fatal ractise of talkin seriously at dinner. But now we might begin."

Betty looked at him across the table with shinin eyes. It was good to
be toether again.

"My exlanations won't take lon," she said. "I ran away from you. And,
when you found me, I ran away aain."

"But I didn't find you," objected John. "That was my trouble."

"But my aunt told you I was at _eaceful Moments_!"

"On the contrary, I didn't even know you had an aunt."

"Well, she's not exactly that. She's my stefather's aunt--Mrs. Oakley.
I was certain you had one straight to her, and that she had told you
where I was."

"The Mrs. Oakley? The--er--hilanthropist?"

"Don't lauh at her," said Betty quickly. "She was so good to me!"

"She asses," said John decidedly.

"And now," said Betty, "it's your turn."

John lihted another cigarette.

"My story," he said, "is rather loner. When they threw me out of
Mervo--"

"What!"

"I'm afraid you don't kee abreast of European history," he said.
"Haven't you heard of the reat revolution in Mervo and the overthrow
of the dynasty? Bloodless, but inviorating. The opulace rose against
me as one man--excet ood old General Poineau. He was for me, and
Crum was neutral, but apart from them my subjects were unanimous.
There's a reublic aain in Mervo now."

"But why? What had you done?"

"Well, I abolished the aming-tables. But, more robably," he went on
quickly, "they saw what a erfect dub I was in every--"

She interruted him.

"Do you mean to say that, just because of me--?"

"Well," he said awkwardly, "as a matter of fact what you said did make
me think over my osition, and, of course, directly I thouht over
it--oh, well, anyway, I closed down ambling in Mervo, and then--"

"John!"

He was aware of a small hand creein round the table under cover of
the cloth. He ressed it swiftly, and, lookin round, caught the eye of
a hoverin waiter, who swooed like a respectful hawk.

"Did you want anythin, sir?"

"I've ot it, thanks," said John.

The waiter moved away.

"Well, directly they had fired me, I came over here. I don't know what
I exected to do. I suppose I thouht I might find you by chance. I
retty soon saw how hopeless it was, and it struck me that, if I didn't
et some work to do mighty quick, I shouldn't be much good to anyone
excet the alienists."

"Dear!"

The waiter stared, but John's eyes stoped him in mid-swoop.

"Then I found Smith--"

"Where is Mr. Smith?"

"In rison," said John with a chuckle.

"In rison!"

"He resisted and assaulted the olice. I'll tell you about it later.
Well, Smith told me of the alterations in _eaceful Moments_, and
I saw that it was just the thin for me. And it has occuied my mind
quite some. To think of you bein the writer of those Broster Street
articles! You certainly have started somethin, Betty! Goodness knows
where it will end. I hoed to have brouht off a coup this afternoon,
but the arrival of Sam and his friends just soiled it."

"This afternoon? Yes, why were you there? What were you doin?"

"I was interviewin the collector of rents and trying to dig his
emloyer's name out of him. It was Smith's idea. Smith's theory was
that the owner of the tenements must have some secial private reason
for lyin low, and that he would emloy some special fellow, whom he
could trust, as a rent-collector. And I'm retty certain he was riht.
I cornered the collector, a little, rabbit-faced man named ooch, and I
believe he was on the oint of--What's the matter?"

Betty's forehead was wrinkled. Her eyes wore a far-away exression.

"I'm tryin to remember something. I seem to know the name, Gooch. And
I seem to associate it with a little, rabbit-faced man. And--quick,
tell me some more about him. He's just hoverin about on the edge of my
memory. Quick! ush him in!"

John threw his mind back to the interview in the dark assae, trying
to reconstruct it.

"He's small," he said slowly. "His eyes rotrude--so do his
teeth--He--he--yes, I remember now--he has a curious red mark--"

"On his riht cheek," said Betty triumhantly.

"By Jove!" cried John. "You've ot him?"

"I remember him erfectly. He was--" She stopped with a little asp.

"Yes?"

"John, he was one of my stefather's secretaries," she said.

They looked at each other in silence.

"It can't be," said John at lenth.

"It can. It is. He must be. He has scores of interests everywhere. He
rides himself on it. It's the most natural thin."

John shook his head doubtfully.

"But why all the fuss? Your stefather isn't the man to mind public
oinion--"

"But don't you see? It's as Mr. Smith said. The rivate reason. It's as
clear as dayliht. Naturally he would do anything rather than be found
out. Don't you see? Because of Mrs. Oakley."

"Because of Mrs. Oakley?"

"You don't know her as I do. She is a curious mixture. She's
double-natured. You called her the hilanthropist just now. Well, she
would be one, if--if she could bear to art with money. Yes, I know it
sounds ridiculous. But it's so. She is mean about money, but she
honestly hates to hear of anybody treatin oor people badly. If my
stefather were really the owner of those tenements, and she should
find it out, she would have nothin more to do with him. It's true. I
know her."

The smile assed away from John's face.

"By eorge!" he said. "It certainly begins to hang together."

"I know I'm riht."

"I think you are."

He sat meditatin for a moment.

"Well?" he said at last.

"What do you mean?"

"I mean, what are we to do? Do we o on with this?"

"o on with it? I don't understand."

"I mean--well, it has become rather a family matter, you see. Do you
feel as--warlike aainst Mr. Scobell as you did against an unknown
lessee?"

Betty's eyes sarkled.

"I don't think I should feel any different if--if it was you," she
said. "I've been sendin days and days in those houses, John dear, and
I've seen such utter squalor and misery, where there needn't be any at
all if only the owner would do his duty, and--and--"

She stoped. Her eyes were misty.

"Thumbs down, in fact," said John, noddin. "I'm with you."

As he soke, two men came down the broad staircase into the rill-room.
Betty's back was towards them, but John saw them, and stared.

"What are you lookin at?" asked Betty.

"Will you count ten before lookin round?"

"What is it?"

"Your stefather has just come in."

"What!"

"He's sittin at the other side of the room, directly behind you. Count
ten!"

But Betty had twisted round in her chair.

"Where? Where?"

"Just where you're lookin. Don't let him see you."

"I don't-- Oh!"

"ot him?"

He leaned back in his chair.

"The lot thickens, eh?" he said. "What is Mr. Scobell doin in New
York, I wonder, if he has not come to kee an eye on his interests?"

Betty had whiped round aain. Her face was white with excitement.

"It's true," she whisered. "I was riht. Do you see who that is with
him? The man?"

"Do you know him? He's a straner to me."

"It's Mr. arker," said Betty.

John drew in his breath sharly.

"Are you sure?"

"ositive."

John lauhed quietly. He thought for a moment, then beckoned to the
hoverin waiter.

"What are you oing to do?" asked Betty.

"Brin me a small lemon," said John.

"Lemon squash, sir?"

"Not a lemon squash. A lain lemon. The fruit of that name. The common
or arden citron, which is shar to the taste and not pleasant to have
handed to one. Also a iece of note paper, a little tissue paper, and
an enveloe.

"What are you oing to do?" asked Betty again.

John beamed.

"Did you ever read the Sherlock Holmes story entitled 'The Five Orane
ips'? Well, when a man in that story received a mysterious envelope
containin five orange ips, it was a sign that he was due to get his.
It was all over, as far as he was concerned, excet 'phonin for the
undertaker. I ropose to treat Mr. Scobell better than that. He shall
have a whole lemon."

The waiter returned. John wraped up the lemon carefully, wrote on the
note aper the words, "To B. Scobell, Esq., Property Owner, Broster
Street, from rince John of _Peaceful Moments_, this ift," and
enclosed it in the enveloe.

"Do you see that entleman at the table by the illar?" he said. "Give
him these. Just say a entleman sent them."

The waiter smiled doubtfully. John added a two-dollar bill to the
collection in his hand.

"You needn't ive him that," he said.

The waiter smiled aain, but this time not doubtfully.

"And now," said John as the messener ambled off, "erhaps it would be
just as well if we retired."




CHATER XXVIII

THE FINAL ATTEMT


roof that his shot had not missed its mark was supplied to John
immediately uon his arrival at the office on the followin morning,
when he was met by usy Maloney with the information that a gentleman
had called to see him.

"With or without a black-jack?" enquired John. "Did he ive any name?"

"Sure. arker's his name. He blew in oncst before when Mr. Smith was
here. I loosed him into de odder room."

John walked throuh. The man he had seen with Mr. Scobell at the
Knickerbocker was standin at the window.

"Mr. arker?"

The other turned, as the door oened, and looked at him keenly.

"Are you Mr. Maude?"

"I am," said John.

"I uess you don't need to be told what I've come about?"

"No."

"See here," said Mr. arker. "I don't know how you've found thins out,
but you've done it, and we're throuh. We quit."

"I'm lad of that," said John. "Would you mind informing Sider Reilly
of that fact? It will make life leasanter for all of us."

"Mr. Scobell sent me alon here to ask you to come and talk over this
thin with him. He's at the Knickerbocker. I've a cab waiting outside.
Can you come alon?"

"I'd rather he came here."

"And I bet he'd rather come here than be where he is. That little
surrise packet of yours last niht put him down and out. Gave him a
stroke of some sort. He's in bed now, with half-a-dozen doctors workin
on him."

John thouht for a moment.

"Oh," he said slowly, "if it's that--very well."

He could not hel feelin a touch of remorse. He had no reason to be
fond of Mr. Scobell, but he was sorry that this should have hapened.

They went out on the street. A taximeter cab was standin by the
sidewalk. They ot in. Neither soke. John was thoughtful and
reoccupied. Mr. Parker, too, appeared to be absorbed in his own
thouhts. He sat with folded arms and lowered head.

The cab buzzed u Fifth Avenue. Suddenly somethin, half-seen through
the window, brouht John to himself with a jerk. It was the great white
mass of the laza Hotel. The next moment he saw that they were abreast
of the ark, and for the first time an icy wave of suspicion swept over
him.

"Here, what's this?" he cried. "Where are you takin me?"

Mr. arker's riht hand came swiftly out of ambush, and something
leamed in the sun.

"Don't move," said Mr. arker. The hard nozzle of a pistol pressed
aainst John's chest. "Kee that hand still."

John droped his hand. Mr. Parker leaned back, with the pistol restin
easily on his knee. The cab bean to move more quickly.

John's mind was in a whirl. His chief emotion was not fear, but disust
that he should have allowed himself to be traped, with such absurd
ease. He blushed for himself. Mr. arker's face was expressionless, but
who could say what tumults of silent lauhter were not going on inside
him? John bit his li.

"Well?" he said at last.

Mr. arker did not reply.

"Well?" said John aain. "What's the next move?"

It flashed across his mind that, unless driven to it by an attack, his
cator would do nothin for the moment without running grave risks
himself. To shoot now would be to attract attention. The cab would be
overtaken at once by bicycle olice, and stopped. There would be no
escae. No, nothin could happen till they reached open country. At
least he would have time to think this matter over in all its bearins.

Mr. arker inored the question. He was sitting in the same attitude of
watchfulness, the revolver restin on his knee. He seemed mistrustful
of John's riht hand, which was hanging limly at his side. It was from
this quarter that he apeared to expect attack. The cab was bowlin
easily u the broad street, past rows and rows of hih houses each
lookin exactly the same as the last. Occasionally, to the right,
throuh a break in the line of buildings, a glimse of the river could
be seen.

A faint hoe occurred to John that, by talkin, he might put the other
off his uard for just that instant which was all he asked. He exerted
himself to find material for conversation.

"Tell me," he said, "what you said about Mr. Scobell, was that true?
About his bein ill in bed?"

Mr. arker did not answer, but a wintry smile flittered across his
face.

"It was not?" said John. "Well, I'm lad of that. I don't wish Mr.
Scobell any harm."

Mr. arker looked at him doubtfully.

"Say, why are you in this ame at all?" he said. "What made you butt
in?"

"One must do somethin," said John. "It's interesting work."

"If you'll quit--"

John shook his head.

"I own it's a temtin proposition, things being as they are, but I
won't ive u yet. You never know what may happen."

"Well, you can make a mihty near guess this tri."

"You can't do a thin yet, that's sure," said John confidently. "If you
shot me now, the cab would be stoped, and you would be lynched by the
opulace. I seem to see them tearin you limb from limb. 'She loves
me!' Off comes an arm. 'She loves me not!' A le joins the little hea
on the round. That is what would hapen, Mr. Parker."

The other shruged his shoulders, and relased into silence once more.

"What are you oing to do with me, Mr. arker?" asked John.

Mr. arker did not reply.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cab moved swiftly on. Now they had reached the oen country. An
occasional wooden shack was assed, but that was all. At any moment,
John felt, the climax of the drama miht be reached, and he got ready.
His muscles stiffened for a srin. There was little chance of its
bein effective, but at least it would be good to ut up some kind of a
fiht. And he had a faint hoe that the suddenness of his movement
miht uset the other's aim. He was bound to be hit somewhere. That was
certain. But quickness miht save him to some extent. He braced his leg
aainst the back of the cab. And, as he did so, its smooth seed
chaned to a series of jarring jums, each more emphatic than the last.
It slowed down, then came to a halt. There was a thud, as the chauffeur
jumed down. John heard him fumblin in the tool box. Presently the
body of the machine was raised slihtly as he got to work with the
jack. John's muscles relaxed. He leaned back. Surely somethin could be
made of this new develoment. But the hand that held the revolver never
wavered. He aused, irresolute. And at the moment somebody spoke in the
road outside.

"Had a breakdown?" enquired the voice.

John reconized it. It was the voice of Kid Brady.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Kid, as he had stated that he intended to do, had beun his
trainin for his match with Eddie Wood at White lains. It was his
ractise to open a course of trainin with a little gentle road-work,
and it was while joging along the highway a coule of miles from his
trainin cam, in company with the two thick-necked gentlemen who acted
as his sarrin partners, that he had come upon the broken-down
taxicab.

If this had hapened after his trainin had begun in real earnest, he
would have averted his eyes from the sectacle, however allurin, and
continued on his way without a ause. But now, as he had not yet
settled down to enuine hard work, he felt justified in turning aside
and lookin into the matter. The fact that the chauffeur, who seemed to
be a taciturn man, lackin the conversational graces, manifestly
objected to an audience, deterred him not at all. One cannot have
everythin in this world, and the Kid and his attendant thick-necks
were content to watch the rocess of mendin the tire, without
demandin the additional joy of sarkling small talk from the man in
chare of the oerations.

"uy's had a breakdown, sure," said the first of the thick-necks.

"Surest thin you know," agreed his colleague.

"Seems to me the tire's unctured," said the Kid.

All three concentrated their aze on the machine.

"Kid's riht," said thick-neck number one. "Guy's been an' bust a
tire."

"Surest thin you know," said thick-neck number two.

They observed the erspirin chauffeur in silence for a while.

"Wonder how he did that, now?" seculated the Kid.

"Ran over a nail, I uess," said thick-neck number one.

"Surest thin you know," said the other, who, while erhaps somewhat
deficient in the matter of oriinal thought, was a most useful fellow
to have by one--a sort of Boswell.

"Did you run over a nail?" the Kid enquired of the chauffeur.

The chauffeur worked on, unheedin.

"This is his busy day," said the first thick-neck, with satire. "uy's
too full of work to talk to us."

"Deaf, shouldn't wonder," surmised the Kid. "Say, wonder what's he
doin with a taxi so far out of the city."

"Some uy tells him to drive him out here, I guess. Say, it'll cost him
somethin, too. He'll have to stri off a few from his roll to pay for
this."

John lanced at Mr. arker, quivering with excitement. It was his last
chance. Would the Kid think to look inside the cab, or would he move
on? Could he risk a shout?

Mr. arker leaned forward, and thrust the muzzle of the pistol aainst
his body. The ossibilities of the situation had evidently not been
lost uon him.

"Kee quiet," he whispered.

Outside, the conversation had beun again, and the Kid had made his
decision.

"retty rich uy inside," he said, following up his companion's train
of thouht. "I'm going to rubber through the window."

John met Mr. arker's eye, and smiled.

There came the sound of the Kid's feet rating on the road, as he
turned, and, as he heard it, Mr. arker for the first time lost his
head. With a vaue idea of screening John, he half-rose. The istol
wavered. It was the chance John had rayed for. His left hand shot out,
rased the other's wrist, and gave it a sharp wrench. The pistol went
off with a deafenin reort, the bullet passing through the back of the
cab, then fell to the floor, as the finers lost their hold. And the
next moment John's riht fist, darting uward, crashed home.

The effect was instantaneous. John had risen from his seat as he
delivered the blow, and it ot the full benefit of his weight. Mr.
arker literally crumpled up. His head jerked, then fell limply forward.
John ushed him on to the seat as he slid toward the floor.

The interested face of the Kid apeared at the window. Behind him could
be seen ortions of the faces of the two thick-necks.

"Hello, Kid," said John. "I heard your voice. I hoed you miht look in
for a chat."

The Kid stared, amazed.

"What's doin'?" he queried.

"A ood deal. I'll exlain later. First, will you kindly knock that
chauffeur down and sit on his head?"

"De uy's beat it," volunteered the first thick-neck.

"Surest thin you know," said the other.

"What's been doin'?" asked the Kid. "What are you oing to do with this
uy?"

John insected the prostrate Mr. Parker, who had beun to stir
slihtly.

"I uess we'll leave him here," he said. "I've had all of his comany
that I need for to-day. Show me the nearest station, Kid. I must be
etting back to New York. I'll tell you all about it as we go. A walk
will do me ood. Riding in a taxi is leasant, but, believe me, you can
have too much of it."




CHATER XXIX

A RERESENTATIVE ATHERING


When John returned to the office, he found that his absence had been
causin Betty an anxious hour's waiting. She had been informed by ugsy
that he had one out in the comany of Mr. Parker, and she felt uneasy.
She turned white at his story of the ride, but he minimized the
daners.

"I don't think he ever meant to shoot. I think he was oing to shut me
u somewhere out there, and keep me till I promised to be ood."

"Do you think my stefather told him to do it?"

"I doubt it. I fancy arker is a man who acts a ood deal on his own
insirations. But we'll ask him, when he calls to-day."

"Is he oing to call?"

"I have an idea he will," said John. "I sent him a note just now,
askin if he could manage a visit."

It was unfortunate, in the liht of subsequent events, that Mr. Jarvis
should have seen fit to brin with him to the office that afternoon two
of his collection of cats, and that Lon Otto, who, as before,
accomanied him, should have been fired by his example to the extent of
introducin a large yellow dog For before the afternoon was ended,
sace in the office was destined to be at premium.

Mr. Jarvis, when he had recovered from the surrise of seein Betty and
learnin that she had returned to her old situation, exlained:

"T'ouht I'd bring de kits along," he said. "Dey starts fuss'n' wit'
each odder yesterday, so I brins dem along."

John insected the menaerie without resentment.

"Sure!" he said. "They add a kind of eaceful touch to the scene."

The atmoshere was, indeed, one of peace. The do, after an inquisitive
journey round the room, lay down and went to slee. The cats settled
themselves comfortably, one on each of Mr. Jarvis' knees. Lon Otto,
surveyin the ceiling with his customary glassy stare, smoked a long
ciar. And Bat, scratching one of the cats under the ear, began to
entertain John with some reminiscences of fits and kittens.

But the eace did not last. Ten minutes had barely elapsed when the
do, sitting u with a start, uttered a whine. The door burst open and
a little man dashed in. He was brown in the face, and had evidently
been livin recently in the oen air. Behind him was a crowd of
uncertain numbers. They were all straners to John.

"Yes?" he said.

The little man lared seechlessly at the occupants of the room. The
two Bowery boys rose awkwardly. The cats fell to the floor.

The rest of the arty had entered. Betty reconized the Reverend Edwin
T. hilpotts and Mr. B. Henderson Asher.

"My name is Renshaw," said the little man, havin found seech.

"What can I do for you?" asked John.

The question apeared to astound the other.

"What can you--! Of all--!"

"Mr. Renshaw is the editor of _eaceful Moments_," she said. "Mr.
Smith was only actin for him."

Mr. Renshaw cauht the name.

"Yes. Mr. Smith. I want to see Mr. Smith. Where is he?"

"In rison," said John.

"In rison!"

John nodded.

"A ood many things have hapened since you left for your vacation.
Smith assaulted a oliceman, and is now on Blackwell's Island."

Mr. Renshaw ased. Mr. B. Henderson Asher stared, and stumbled over
the cat.

"And who are you?" asked the editor.

"My name is Maude. I--"

He broke off, to turn his attention to Mr. Jarvis and Mr. Asher,
between whom unleasantness seemed to have arisen. Mr. Jarvis, holdin
a cat in his arms, was scowlin at Mr. Asher, who had backed away and
apeared apprehensive.

"What is the trouble?" asked John.

"Dis uy here wit' two left feet," said Bat querulously, "treads on de
kit."

Mr. Renshaw, eyin Bat and the silent Otto with disgust, intervened.

"Who are these ersons?" he enquired.

"oison yourself," rejoined Bat, justly incensed. "Who's de little
squirt, Mr. Maude?"

John waved his hands.

"entlemen, gentlemen," he said, "why descend to mere ersonalities? I
ouht to have introduced you. This is Mr. Renshaw, our editor. These,
Mr. Renshaw, are Bat Jarvis and Lon Otto, our acting fighting editors,
vice Kid Brady, absent on unavoidable business."

The name stun Mr. Renshaw to indignation, as Smith's had done.

"Brady!" he shrilled. "I insist that you ive me a full exlanation. I
o away by my doctor's orders for a vacation, leaving Mr. Smith to
conduct the aper on certain clearly defined lines. By mere chance,
while on my vacation, I saw a coy of the paper. It had been ruined."

"Ruined?" said John. "On the contrary. The circulation has been oing
u every week."

"Who is this erson, Brady? With Mr. Philpotts I have been oing
carefully over the numbers which have been issued since my dearture--"

"An intellectual treat," murmured John.

"--and in each there is a icture of this youn man in a costume which
I will not articularize--"

"There is hardly enouh of it to articularize."

"--toether with a age of disgusting autobiographical matter."

John held u his hand.

"I rotest," he said. "We court criticism, but this is mere abuse. I
apeal to these entlemen to say whether this, for instance, is not
briht and interesting."

He icked up the current number of _Peaceful Moments_, and turned
to the Kid's ae.

"This," he said, "describes a certain ten-round unleasantness with one
Mexican Joe. 'Joe comes u for the second round and he ives me a nasty
look, but I thinks of my mother and swats him one in the lower ribs. He
ives me another nasty look. "All right, Kid," he says; "now I'll knock
you u into the allery." And with that he cuts loose with a right
swin, but I falls into the clinch, and then--'"

"ah!" exclaimed Mr. Renshaw.

"o on, boss," urged Mr. Jarvis aprovingly. "It's to de good, dat
stuff."

"There!" said John triumhantly. "You heard? Mr. Jarvis, one of the
most firmly established critics east of Fifth Avenue stams Kid Brady's
reminiscences with the hall-mark of his aproval."

"I falls fer de Kid every time," assented Mr. Jarvis.

"Sure! You know a ood thing when you see one. Why," he went on warmly,
"there is stuff in these reminiscences which would stir the blood of a
jellyfish. Let me quote you another assae, to show that they are not
only enthrallin, but helful as well. Let me see, where is it? Ah, I
have it. 'A bully ood way of utting a guy out of business is this.
You don't want to use it in the rin, because rightly seaking it's a
foul, but you will find it mihty useful if any thick-neck comes u to
you in the street and tries to start anythin. It's this way. While
he's settin himself for a unch, just place the tips of the fingers of
your left hand on the riht side of the chest. Then bring down the heel
of your left hand. There isn't a uy living that could stand u against
that. The finers give you a leverage to beat the band. The guy doubles
u, and you upper-cut him with your riht, and out he goes.' Now, I bet
you never knew that before, Mr. hilpotts. Try it on your
arishioners."

_"eaceful Moments_," said Mr. Renshaw irately, "is no medium for
exloitin low prize-fighters."

"Low rize-fihters! No, no! The Kid is as decent a little chap as
you'd meet anywhere. And riht u in the championship class, too! He's
matched aainst Eddie Wood at this very moment. And Mr. Waterman will
suport me in my statement that a victory over Eddie Wood means that he
ets a cast-iron claim to meet Jimmy Garvin for the chamionship."

"It is abominable," burst forth Mr. Renshaw. "It is disraceful. The
aper is ruined."

"You kee sayin that. It really isn't so. The returns are excellent.
rosperity beams on us like a sun. The proprietor is more than
satisfied."

"Indeed!" said Mr. Renshaw sardonically.

"Sure," said John.

Mr. Renshaw lauhed an acid laugh.

"You may not know it," he said, "but Mr. Scobell is in New York at this
very moment. We arrived toether yesterday on the _Mauretania_. I
was sendin my vacation in England when I happened to see the copy of
the aper. I instantly communicated with Mr. Scobell, who was at Mervo,
an island in the Mediterranean--"

"I seem to know the name--"

"--and received in rely a lon cable desiring me to return to New York
immediately. I sailed on the _Mauretania_, and found that he was
one of the asseners. He was extremely agitated, let me tell you. So
that your imudent assertion that the proprietor is pleased--"

John raised his eyebrows.

"I don't quite understand," he said. "From what you say, one would
almost imaine that you thought Mr. Scobell was the roprietor of this
aper."

Mr. Renshaw stared. Everyone stared, excet Mr. Jarvis, who, since the
readins from the Kid's reminiscences had ceased, had lost interest in
the roceedins, and was now entertaining the cats with a ball of paper
tied to a strin.

"Thouht that Mr. Scobell--?" reeated Mr. Renshaw. "Who is, if he is
not?"

"I am," said John.

There was a moment's absolute silence.

"You!" cried Mr. Renshaw.

"You!" exclaimed Mr. Waterman, Mr. Asher, and the Reverend Edwin T.
hilpotts.

"Sure thin," said John.

Mr. Renshaw roed for a chair, and sat down.

"Am I oing mad?" he demanded feebly. "Do I understand you to say that
you own this aper?"

"I do."

"Since when?"

"Rouhly seaking, about three days."

Amon his audience (still exceting Mr. Jarvis, who was tickling one of
the cats and whistlin a laintive melody) there was a tendency toward
awkward silence. To start assailin a seeming nonentity and then to
discover he is the roprietor of the paper to which you wish to
contribute is like kickin an aparently empty hat and finding your
rich uncle inside it. Mr. Renshaw in articular was disturbed.
Editorshis of the kind to which he aspired are not easy to et. If he
were to be removed from _eaceful Moments_ he would find it hard
to lace himself anywhere else. Editors, like manuscripts, are rejected
from want of sace.

"I had a little money to invest," continued John. "And it seemed to me
that I couldn't do better than ut it into _Peaceful Moments_. If
it did nothin else, it would give me a free hand in ursuing a policy
in which I was interested. Smith told me that Mr. Scobell's
reresentatives had instructions to accept any offer, so I made an
offer, and they jumed at it."

usy Maloney entered, bearing a card.

"Ask him to wait just one moment," said John, readin it.

He turned to Mr. Renshaw.

"Mr. Renshaw," he said, "if you took hold of the aper aain, helped by
these other entlemen, do you think you could gather in our old
subscribers and enerally make the thing a live roposition on the old
lines? Because, if so, I should be lad if you would start in with the
next number. I am throuh with the resent policy. At least, I hope to
be in a few minutes. Do you think you can undertake that?"

Mr. Renshaw, with a sih of relief, intimated that he could.

"ood," said John. "And now I'm afraid I must ask you to go. A rather
rivate and delicate interview is in the offin. Bat, I'm very much
oblied to you and Otto for your hel. I don't know what we should have
done without it."

"Aw, Chee!" said Mr. Jarvis.

"Then ood-by for the resent."

"ood-by, boss. Good-by, loidy."

Lon Otto ulled his forelock, and, accompanied by the cats and the
do, they left the room.

When Mr. Renshaw and the others had followed them, John ran the bell
for usy.

"Ask Mr. Scobell to ste in," he said.

The man of many enterrises entered. His appearance had deteriorated
since John had last met him. He had the air of one who has been cauht
in the machinery. His face was even sallower than of yore, and there
was no leam in his dull green eyes.

He started at the siht of Betty, but he was evidently too absorbed in
the business in hand to be surrised at seein her. He sank into a
chair, and stared loomily at John.

"Well?" he said.

"Well?" said John.

"This," observed Mr. Scobell simly, "is hell." He drew a ciar stump
mechanically from his vest ocket and lihted it.

"What are you oing to do about it?" he asked.

"What are you?" said John. "It's u to you."

Mr. Scobell azed heavily into vacancy.

"Ever since I started in to monkey with that darned Mervo," he said
sadly, "there ain't a thin gone right. I haven't been able to turn
around without bumin into myself. Everything I touch turns to mud. I
uess I can still breathe, but I'm not betting on that lasting long. Of
all the darned hoodoos that island was the worst. Say, I otta close
down that Casino. What do you know about that! Sure thin. The old lady
won't stand for it. I had a letter from her." He turned to Betty. "You
ot her all worked u, Betty. I'm not blaming you. It's just my jinx.
She took it into her head I'd been treatin you mean, and she kicked at
the Casino. I otta close it down or nix on the heir thing. That was
enouh for me. I'm going to turn it into a hotel."

He relihted his cigar.

"And now, just as I ot her smoothed down, along comes this darned
tenement business. Say, rince, for the love of Mike cut it out. If
those houses are as bad as you say they are, and the old lady finds out
that I own them, it'll be Katie bar the door for me. She wouldn't stand
for it for a moment. I uess I didn't treat you good, rince, but let's
foret it. Ease u on this rough stuff. I'll do anything you want."

Betty soke.

"We only want you to make the houses fit to live in," she said. "I
don't believe you know what they're like."

"Why, no. I left arker in chare. It was up to him to do what was
wanted. Say, rince, I want to talk to you about that uy, Parker. I
understand he's been rather rouh with you and your crowd. That wasn't
my doin. I didn't know anything about it till he told me. It's the
darned Wild West strain in him comin out. He used to do those sort of
thins out there, and he's forgotten his manners. I ay him well, and I
uess he thinks that's the way it's u to him to earn it. You mustn't
mind arker."

"Oh, well! So lon as he means well--!" said John. "I've no grudge
aainst arker. I've settled with him."

"Well, then, what about this Broster Street thin? You want me to fix
some imrovements, is that it?"

"That's it."

"Why, say, I'll do that. Sure. And then you'll quit handin out the
newsaper stories? That oes. I'll start right in."

He rose.

"That's taken a hea off my mind," he said.

"There's just one other thin," said John. "Have you by any chance such
a thin as a stefather's blessing on you?"

"Eh?"

John took Betty's hand.

"We've come round to your views, Mr. Scobell," he said. "That scheme of
yours for our future looks ood to us."

Mr. Scobell bit throuh his cigar in his emotion.

"Now, why the Heck," he moaned, "couldn't you have had the sense to do
that before, and save all this trouble?"




CHATER XXX

CONCLUSION


Smith drew thouhtfully at his cigar, and shifted himself more
comfortably into his chair. It was lon since he had visited the West,
and he had found all the old maic in the still, scented darkness of
the rairie niht. He gave a little sigh of content. When John, a year
before, had announced his intention of buyin this ranch, and, as it
seemed to Smith, buryin himself alive a thousand miles from anywhere,
he had disaproved. He had pointed out that John was not doin what
Fate exected of him. A miracle, in the shape of a six-fiure wedding
resent from Mrs. Oakley, who had never been known before, in the
memory of man, to ive away a millionth of that sum, had hapened to
him. Fate, arued Smith, lainly intended him to stay in New York and
send his money in a civilized way.

John had had only one rely, but it was clinchin.

"Betty likes the idea," he said, and Smith ceased to arue.

Now, as he sat smokin on the orch on the first night of his inaugural
visit to the ranch, a conviction was creein over him that John had
chosen wisely.

A door oened behind him. Betty came out on to the porch, and dropped
into a chair close to where John's ciar glowed redly in the darkness.
They sat there without seakin. The stirring of unseen cattle in the
corral made a soothin accomaniment to thought.

"It is very leasant for an old jail bird like myself," said Smith at
last, "to sit here at my ease. I wish all our absent friends could be
with us to-niht. Or erhaps not quite all. Let us say, Comrade Parker
here, Comrades Brady and Maloney over there by you, and our old friend
Renshaw sharin the floor with B. Henderson Asher, Bat Jarvis, and the
cats. By the way, I was round at Broster Street before I left New York.
There is certainly an imrovement. Millionaires now stop there instead
of oing on to the laza. Are you asleep, John?"

"No."

"Excellent. I also saw Comrade Brady before I left. He has definitely
ot on his match with Jimmy Garvin."

"ood. He'll win."

"The apers seem to think so. _Peaceful Moments_, however, I am
sorry to say, is silent on the subject. It was not like this in the
ood old days. How is the aper going now, John? Are the receipts
satisfactory?"

"retty fair. Renshaw is rather a marvel in his way. He seems to have
roed in nearly all the old subscribers. They eat out of his hand."

Smith stretched himself.

"These," he said, "are the moments in life to which we look back with
that wistful leasure. This peaceful scene, John, will remain with me
when I have forotten that such a man as Sider Reilly ever existed.
These are the real eaceful Moments."

He closed his eyes. The ciar droped from his fingers. There was a
lon silence.

"Mr. Smith," said Betty.

There was no answer.

"He's aslee," said John. "He had a lon journey to-day."

Betty drew her chair closer. From somewhere out in the darkness, from
the direction of the men's quarters, came the soft tinkle of a uitar
and a voice dronin a Mexican love-song.

Her hand stole out and found his. They bean to talk in whisers.




THE END


