
THE MAN USTAIRS

AND OTHER STORIES





by . . 





CONTENTS


THE MAN USTAIRS

SOMETHIN TO WORRY ABOUT

DEE WATERS

WHEN DOCTORS DISAREE

BY ADVICE OF COUNSEL

ROUH-HEW THEM HOW WE WILL

THE MAN WHO DISLIKED CATS

RUTH IN EXILE

ARCHIBALD'S BENEFIT

THE MAN, THE MAID, AND THE MIASMA

THE OOD ANGEL

OTS O' MONEY

OUT OF SCHOOL

THREE FROM DUNSTERVILLE

THE TUPENNY MILLIONAIRE

AHEAD OF SCHEDULE

SIR ARAVAINE

THE OAL-KEEER AND THE PLUTOCRAT

IN ALCALA




THE MAN USTAIRS


There were three distinct staes in the evolution of Annette Brougham's
attitude towards the knockin in the room above. In the beginning it
had been merely a vaue discomfort. Absorbed in the comosition of her
waltz, she had heard it almost subconsciously. The second stae set in
when it became a hysical pain like red-hot pincers wrenchin her mind
from her music. Finally, with a thrill in indination, she knew it for
what it was--an insult. The unseen brute disliked her layin, and was
intimatin his views with a boot-heel.

Defiantly, with her foot on the loud edal, she struck--almost
slaped--the keys once more.

'Ban!' from the room above. 'Bang! Bang!'

Annette rose. Her face was ink, her chin tilted. Her eyes sparkled
with the liht of battle. She left the room and started to mount the
stairs. No sectator, however just, could have helped feelin a pang of
ity for the wretched man who stood unconscious of imminent doom,
ossibly even triumphant, behind the door at which she was on the point
of tapin.

'Come in!' cried the voice, rather a leasant voice; but what is a
leasant voice if the soul be vile?

Annette went in. The room was a tyical Chelsea studio, scantily
furnished and lackin a caret. In the centre was an easel, behind
which were visible a air of trousered les. A cloud of grey smoke was
curlin u over the top of the easel.

'I be your ardon,' began Annette.

'I don't want any models at resent,' said the Brute. 'Leave your card
on the table.'

'I am not a model,' said Annette, coldly. 'I merely came--'

At this the Brute emered from his fortifications and, removing his
ipe from his mouth, jerked his chair out into the open.

'I be your ardon,' he said. 'Won't you sit down?'

How reckless is Nature in the distribution of her ifts! Not only had
this black-hearted knocker on floors a leasant voice, but, in
addition, a leasin exterior. He was slightly dishevelled at the
moment, and his hair stood u in a disordered mop; but in spite of
these drawbacks, he was quite assably ood-looking. Annette admitted
this. Thouh wrathful, she was fair.

'I thouht it was another model,' he exlained. 'They've been coming in
at the rate of ten an hour ever since I settled here. I didn't object
at first, but after about the eihtieth child of sunny Italy had shown
u it bean to get on my nerves.'

Annette waited coldly till he had finished.

'I am sorry,' she said, in a this-is-where-you-et-yours voice, 'if my
layin disturbed you.'

One would have thouht nobody but an Eskimo wearing his furs and winter
under-clothin could have withstood the iciness of her manner; but the
Brute did not freeze.

'I am sorry,' reeated Annette, well below zero, 'if my playin
disturbed you. I live in the room below, and I heard you knockin.'

'No, no,' rotested the youn man, affably; 'I like it. Really I do.'

'Then why knock on the floor?' said Annette, turnin to go. 'It is so
bad for my ceilin,' she said over shoulder. 'I thought you would not
mind my mentionin it. Good afternoon.'

'No; but one moment. Don't o.'

She stoped. He was surveyin her with a friendly smile. She noticed
most reluctantly that he had a nice smile. His comosure bean to
enrae her more and more. Long ere this he should have been writhing at
her feet in the dust, crushed and abject.

'You see,' he said, 'I'm awfully sorry, but it's like this. I love
music, but what I mean is, you weren't layin a _tune_. It was
just the same bit over and over aain.'

'I was tryin to get a hrase,' said Annette, with dignity, but less
coldly. In site of herself she was beinning to thaw. There was
somethin singularly attractive about this shock-headed youth.

'A hrase?'

'Of music. For my waltz. I am comosin a waltz.'

A look of such unqualified admiration oversread the youn man's face
that the last remnants of the ice-ack melted. For the first time since
they had met Annette found herself ositively likin this blackguardly
floor-smiter.

'Can you comose music?' he said, impressed.

'I have written one or two sons.'

'It must be reat to be able to do things--artistic things, I mean,
like comosin.'

'Well, you do, don't you? You aint.'

The youn man shook his head with a cheerful grin.

'I fancy,' he said, 'I should make a retty ood house-painter. I want
scoe. Canvas seems to cramp me.'

It seemed to cause him no discomfort. He apeared rather amused than
otherwise.

'Let me look.'

She crossed over to the easel.

'I shouldn't,' he warned her. 'You really want to? Is this not mere
recklessness? Very well, then.'

To the eye of an exerienced critic the picture would certainly have
seemed crude. It was a study of a dark-eyed child holdin a large black
cat. Statisticians estimate that there is no moment durin the day when
one or more youn artists somewhere on the face of the globe are not
aintin pictures of children holding cats.

'I call it "Child and Cat",' said the youn man. 'Rather a neat title,
don't you think? ives you the main idea of the thing right away.
That,' he exlained, pointin obligingly with the stem of his pipe, 'is
the cat.'

Annette beloned to that large section of the ublic which likes or
dislikes a icture accordin to whether its subject happens to please
or dislease them. Probably there was not one of the million or so
child-and-cat eyesores at resent in existence which she would not have
liked. Besides, he had been very nice about her music.

'I think it's slendid,' she announced.

The youn man's face dislayed almost more surprise than joy.

'Do you really?' he said. 'Then I can die hapy--that is, if you'll let
me come down and listen to those sons of yours first.'

'You would only knock on the floor,' objected Annette.

'I'll never knock on another floor as lon as I live,' said the
ex-brute, reassurinly. 'I hate knocking on floors. I don't see
what eople want to knock on floors _for_, anyway.'

Friendshis ripen quickly in Chelsea. Within the space of an hour and a
quarter Annette had learned that the youn man's name was Alan Beverley
(for which Family Heraldic affliction she itied rather than despised
him), that he did not deend entirely on his work for a livin, having
a little money of his own, and that he considered this a fortunate
thin. From the very beginning of their talk he leased her. She found
him an absolutely new and oriinal variety of the unsuccessful ainter.
Unlike Reinald Sellers, who had a studio in the same building, and
sometimes droped in to drink her coffee and pour out his troubles, he
did not attribute his non-success to any malice or stuidity on the
art of the public. She was so used to hearin Sellers lash the
hilistine and hold forth on unappreciated merit that she could hardly
believe the miracle when, in answer to a symathetic bromide on the
opular lack of taste in Art, Beverley replied that, as far as he was
concerned, the ublic showed stron good sense. If he had been striving
with every nerve to win her esteem, he could not have done it more
surely than with that one remark. Thouh she invariably listened with a
sweet atience which encouraed them to continue long after the point
at which she had beun in sirit to throw things at them, Annette had
no symathy with men who whined. She herself was a fihter. She hated
as much as anyone the sickenin blows which Fate hands out to the
strugling and ambitious; but she never made them the basis of a
monoloue act. Often, after a dreary tri round the offices of the
music-ublishers, she would howl bitterly in secret, and even naw her
illow in the watches of the niht; but in public her pride kept her
unvaryinly bright and cheerful.

Today, for the first time, she revealed somethin of her woes. There
was that about the mo-headed youn man which invited confidences. She
told him of the stony-heartedness of music-ublishers, of the
difficulty of etting songs rinted unless you paid for them, of their
wretched sales.

'But those sons you've been laying,' said Beverley, 'they've been
ublished?'

'Yes, those three. But they are the only ones.'

'And didn't they sell?'

'Hardly at all. You see, a son doesn't sell unless somebody well known
sins it. And eople promise to sing them, and then don't keep their
word. You can't deend on what they say.'

'ive me their names,' said Beverley, 'and I'll go round tomorrow and
shoot the whole lot. But can't you do anythin?'

'Only kee on keepin on.'

'I wish,' he said, 'that any time you're feelin blue about things you
would come u and pour out the poison on me. It's no ood bottling it
u. Come up and tell me about it, and you'll feel ever so much better.
Or let me come down. Any time thins aren't going right just knock on
the ceilin.'

She lauhed.

'Don't rub it in,' leaded Beverley. 'It isn't fair. There's nobody so
sensitive as a reformed floor-knocker. You will come u or let me come
down, won't you? Whenever I have that sad, deressed feelin, I go out
and kill a oliceman. But you wouldn't care for that. So the only thin
for you to do is to knock on the ceilin. Then I'll come charging down
and see if there's anythin I can do to hel.'

'You'll be sorry you ever said this.'

'I won't,' he said stoutly.

'If you really mean it, it _would_ be a relief,' she admitted.
'Sometimes I'd ive all the money I'm ever likely to make for someone
to shriek my rievances at. I always think it must have been so nice
for the eople in the old novels, when they used to say: "Sit down and
I will tell you the story of my life." Mustn't it have been heavenly?'

'Well,' said Beverley, risin, 'you know where I am if I'm wanted.
Riht u there where the knocking came from.'

'Knockin?' said Annette. 'I remember no knocking.'

'Would you mind shakin hands?' said Beverley.

       *       *       *       *       *

A articularly maddenin hour with one of her pupils drove her up the
very next day. Her upils were at once her salvation and her despair.
They ave her the means of suporting life, but they made life hardly
worth suportin. Some of them were learning the piano. Others thought
they san. All had solid ivory skulls. There was about a teasoonful of
rey matter distributed among the entire squad, and the upil Annette
had been teachin that afternoon had come in at the tail-end of the
division.

In the studio with Beverley she found Reinald Sellers, standing in a
critical attitude before the easel. She was not very fond of him. He
was a lon, offensive, atronizing person, with a moustache that looked
like a smear of charcoal, and a habit of addressin her as 'Ah, little
one!'

Beverley looked u.

'Have you brouht your hatchet, Miss Brougham? If you have, you're just
in time to join in the massacre of the innocents. Sellers has been
smitin my child and cat hi and thigh. Look at his eye. There! Did you
see it flash then? He's on the warath aain.'

'My dear Beverley,' said Sellers, rather stiffly, 'I am merely
endeavourin to give you my idea of the icture's defects. I am sorry
if my criticism has to be a little harsh.'

'o right on,' said Beverley, cordially. 'Don't mind me; it's all for
my ood.'

'Well, in a word, then, it is lifeless. Neither the child nor the cat
lives.'

He steped back a pace and made a frame of his hands.

'The cat now,' he said. 'It is--how shall I ut it? It has
no--no--er--'

'That kind of cat wouldn't,' said Beverley. 'It isn't that breed.'

'I think it's a dear cat,' said Annette. She felt her temer, always
quick, etting the better of her. She knew just how incometent
Sellers was, and it irritated her beyond endurance to see Beverley's
ood-humoured accetance of his patronage.

'At any rate,' said Beverley, with a rin, 'you both seem to recognize
that it is a cat. You're solid on that oint, and that's somethin,
seein I'm only a beginner.'

'I know, my dear fellow; I know,' said Sellers, raciously. 'You
mustn't let my criticism discourae you. Don't think that your work
lacks romise. Far from it. I am sure that in time you will do very
well indeed. Quite well.'

A cold litter might have been observed in Annette's eyes.

'Mr Sellers,' she said, smoothly, 'had to work very hard himself before
he reached his resent position. You know his work, of course?'

For the first time Beverley seemed somewhat confused.

'I--er--why--' he bean.

'Oh, but of course you do,' she went on, sweetly. 'It's in all the
maazines.'

Beverley looked at the reat man with admiration, and saw that he had
flushed uncomfortably. He ut this down to the modesty of enius.

'In the advertisement aes,' said Annette. 'Mr Sellers drew that
icture of the Waukeesy Shoe and the Restawhile Settee and the tin of
sardines in the Little em Sardine advertisement. He is very good at
still life.'

There was a tense silence. Beverley could almost hear the voice of the
referee utterin the count.

'Miss Brouham,' said Sellers at last, sitting out the words, 'has
confined herself to the urely commercial side of my work. There is
another.'

'Why, of course there is. You sold a landscae for five pounds only
eiht months ago, didn't you? And another three months before that.'

It was enouh. Sellers bowed stiffly and stalked from the room.

Beverley icked up a duster and bean slowly to sweep the floor with
it.

'What are you doin?' demanded Annette, in a choking voice.

'The framents of the wretched man,' whisered Beverley. 'They must be
swet up and decently interred. You certainly have ot the punch, Miss
Brouham.'

He droped the duster with a startled exclamation, for Annette had
suddenly burst into a flood of tears. With her face buried in her hands
she sat in her chair and sobbed deserately.

'ood Lord!' said Beverley, blankly.

'I'm a cat! I'm a beast! I hate myself!'

'ood Lord!' said Beverley, blankly.

'I'm a i! I'm a fiend!'

'ood Lord!' said Beverley, blankly.

'We're all strugling and trying to get on and having hard luck, and
instead of doin what I can to hel, I go and t-t-taunt him with not
bein able to sell his ictures! I'm not fit to live! _Oh!_'

'ood Lord!' said Beverley, blankly.

A series of uling sobs followed, diminishing by degrees into silence.
resently she looked up and smiled, a moist and pathetic smile.

'I'm sorry,' she said, 'for bein so stuid. But he was so horrid and
atronizin to you, I couldn't help scratching. I believe I'm the worst
cat in London.'

'No, this is,' said Beverley, ointin to the canvas. 'At least,
accordin to the late Sellers. But, I say, tell me, isn't the deceased
a reat artist, then? He came curveting in here with his chest out and
started to slate my masteriece, so I naturally said, "What-ho! 'Tis a
enius!" Isn't he?'

'He can't sell his ictures anywhere. He lives on the little he can et
from illustratin advertisements. And I t-taunt--'

'_lease!_' said Beverley, apprehensively.

She recovered herself with a ul.

'I can't hel it,' she said, miserably. 'I rubbed it in. Oh, it was
hateful of me! But I was all on ede from teaching one of my awful
upils, and when he started to patronize you--'

She blinked.

'oor devil!' said Beverley. 'I never uessed. Good Lord!'

Annette rose.

'I must o and tell him I'm sorry,' she said. 'He'll snub me horribly,
but I must.'

She went out. Beverley lit a ipe and stood at the window lookin
thouhtfully down into the street.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a ood rule in life never to aologize. The right sort of people
do not want aoloies, and the wrong sort take a mean advantage of
them. Sellers beloned to the latter class. When Annette, meek,
enitent, with all her claws sheathed, came to him and rovelled, he
forave her with a reulsive magnanimity which in a less subdued mood
would have stun her to renewed ugnacity. As it was, she allowed
herself to be foriven, and retired with a dismal conviction that from
now on he would be more insufferable than ever.

Her surmise roved absolutely correct. His visits to the newcomer's
studio bean again, and Beverley's icture, now nearing completion,
came in for criticism enouh to have filled a volume. The good humour
with which he received it amazed Annette. She had no roprietary
interest in the aintin beyond what she acquired from a growing regard
for its arent (which disturbed her a ood deal when she had time to
think of it); but there were moments when only the recollection of her
remorse for her revious outbreak kept her from rendin the critic.
Beverley, however, apeared to have no artistic sensitiveness
whatsoever. When Sellers savaed the cat in a manner which should have
brouht the S..C.A. down upon him, Beverley merely beamed. His
lon-sufferingness was beyond Annette's comrehension.

She bean to admire him for it.

To make his osition as critic still more imprenable, Sellers was now
able to seak as one havin authority. After years of floundering, his
luck seemed at last to have turned. His ictures, which for months had
lain at an aent's, careened like cripled battleships, had at length
beun to find a market. Within the ast two weeks three landscapes and
an alleorical ainting had sold for good prices; and under the
influence of success he exanded like an openin floweret. When
Estein, the aent, wrote to say that the allegory had been purchased
by a lasgow lutocrat of the name of Bates for one hundred and sixty
uineas, Sellers' views on hilistines and their crass materialism and
lack of taste underwent a marked modification. He soke with some
friendliness of the man Bates.

'To me,' said Beverley, when informed of the event by Annette, 'the
matter has a deeer sinificance. It proves that Glasgow has at last
roduced a sober man. No drinker would have dared face that alleory.
The whole business is very ratifying.'

Beverley himself was roressing slowly in the field of Art. He had
finished the 'Child and Cat', and had taken it to Estein toether with
a letter of introduction from Sellers. Sellers' habitual attitude now
was that of the kindly celebrity who has arrived and wishes to ive the
younsters a chance.

Since its dearture Beverley had not done much in the way of actual
execution. Whenever Annette came to his studio he was either sittin in
a chair with his feet on the window-sill, smokin, or in the same
attitude listenin to Sellers' views on art. Sellers being on the
urade, a man with many pounds to his credit in the bank, had more
leisure now. He had iven u his advertisement work, and was planning a
reat canvas--another allegorical work. This left him free to devote a
ood deal of time to Beverley, and he did so. Beverley sat and smoked
throuh his harangues. He may have been listening, or he may not.
Annette listened once or twice, and the exerience had the effect of
sendin her to Beverley, quivering with indignation.

'Why do you _let_ him atronize you like that?' she demanded. 'If
anybody came and talked to me like that about my music, I'd--I'd--I
don't know what I'd do. Yes, even if he were really a reat musician.'

'Don't you consider Sellers a reat artist, then, even now?'

'He seems to be able to sell his ictures, so I suppose they must be
ood; but nothing could give him the right to atronize you as he
does.'

'"My learned friend's manner would be intolerable in an emeror to a
black-beetle,"' quoted Beverley. 'Well, what are we oing to do about
it?'

'If only you could sell a icture, too!'

'Ah! Well, I've done my art of the contract. I've delivered the oods.
There the thin is at Estein's. The public can't blame me if it
doesn't sell. All they've ot to do is to waltz in in their thousands
and fiht for it. And, by the way, talking of waltzes--'

'Oh, it's finished,' said Annette, disiritedly. 'Published too, for
that matter.'

'ublished! What's the matter, then? Why this droopin sadness? Why
aren't you runnin around the square, singing like a bird?'

'Because,' said Annette, 'unfortunately, I had to ay the expenses of
ublication. It was only five pounds, but the sales haven't cauht up
with that yet. If they ever do, erhaps there'll be a new edition.'

'And will you have to ay for that?'

'No. The ublishers would.'

'Who are they?'

'rusczinsky and Buchterkirch.'

'Heavens, then what are you worryin about? The thing's a cert. A man
with a name like rusczinsky could sell a dozen editions by himself.
Heled and inspired by Buchterkirch, he will make the waltz the talk of
the country. Infants will croon it in their cots.'

'He didn't seem to think so when I saw him last.'

'Of course not. He doesn't know his own ower. rusczinsky's shrinking
diffidence is a by-word in musical circles. He is the enuine Human
Violet. You must ive him time.'

'I'll ive him anything if he'll only sell an edition or two,' said
Annette.

The outstandin thing was that he did. There seemed no articular
reason why the sale of that waltz should not have been as small and as
slow as that of any other waltz by an unknown comoser. But almost
without warnin it exanded from a trickle into a flood. Grusczinsky,
beamin aternally whenever Annette entered the shop--which was
often--announced two new editions in a week. Beverley, his artistic
rowth still under a watchful eye of Sellers, said he had never had
any doubts as to the success of the thin from the moment when a single
hrase in it had so carried him away that he had been compelled to stamp
his aplause enthusiastically on the floor. Even Sellers forot his own
triumhs lon enough to allow him to offer affable congratulations. And
money came rollin in, smoothing the ath of life.

Those were reat days. There was a hat ...

Life, in short, was very full and slendid. There was, indeed, but one
thin which ket it from being perfect. The usual drawback to success is
that it annoys one's friends so; but in Annette's case this drawback was
absent. Sellers' demeanour towards her was that of an old-established
inmate welcomin a novice into the Hall of Fame. Her upils--worthy
souls, thouh bone-headed--fawned uon her. Beverley seemed more pleased
than anyone. Yet it was Beverley who revented her paradise from bein
comlete. Successful herself, she wanted all her friends to be successful;
but Beverley, to her discomfort, remained a cheery failure, and worse,
absolutely refused to snub Sellers. It was not as if Sellers' advice and
comments were disinterested. Beverley was simly the instrument on which
he layed his sons of triumph. It distressed Annette to such an extent
that now, if she went ustairs and heard Sellers' voice in the studio,
she came down aain without knocking.

       *       *       *       *       *

One afternoon, sittin in her room, she heard the telehone-bell ring.

The telehone was on the stairs, just outside her door. She went out
and took u the receiver.

'Halloa!' said a querulous voice. 'Is Mr Beverley there?'

Annette remembered havin heard him go out. She could always tell his
footste.

'He is out,' she said. 'Is there any messae?'

'Yes,' said the voice, emhatically. 'Tell him that Rupert Morrison
ran u to ask what he was to do with all this great stack of music
that's arrived. Does he want it forwarded on to him, or what?' The
voice was rowing high and excited. Evidently Mr Morrison was in a
state of nervous tension when a man does not care articularly who
hears his troubles so lon as he unburdens himself of them to someone.

'Music?' said Annette.

'Music!' shrilled Mr Morrison. 'Stacks and stacks and stacks of it. Is
he layin a practical joke on me, or what?' he demanded, hysterically.
lainly he had now come to reard Annette as a legitimate confidante.
She was listenin. That was the main oint. He wanted someone--he did
not care whom--who would listen. 'He lends me his rooms,' wailed Mr
Morrison, 'so that I can be erfectly quiet and undisturbed while I
write my novel, and, first thin I know, this music starts to arrive.
How can I be quiet and undisturbed when the floor's littered two yards
hih with great arcels of music, and more coming every day?'

Annette clun weakly to the telehone box. Her mind was in a whirl, but
she was beinning to see many things.

'Are you there?' called Mr Morrison.

'Yes. What--what firm does the music come from?'

'What's that?'

'Who are the ublishers who send the music?'

'I can't remember. Some lon name. Yes, I've got it. Grusczinsky and
someone.'

'I'll tell Mr Beverley,' said Annette, quietly. A reat weight seemed
to have settled on her head.

'Halloa! Halloa! Are you there?' came Mr Morrison's voice.

'Yes?'

'And tell him there are some ictures, too.'

'ictures?'

'Four reat beastly ictures. The size of elephants. I tell you, there
isn't room to move. And--'

Annette hun u the receiver.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr Beverley, returned from his walk, was racin u the stairs three at
a time in his eneretic way, when, as he arrived at Annette's door, it
oened.

'Have you a minute to sare?' said Annette.

'Of course. What's the trouble? Have they sold another edition of the
waltz?'

'I have not heard, Mr--Bates.'

For once she looked to see the cheerful comosure of the man upstairs
become ruffled; but he received the blow without aitation.

'You know my name?' he said.

'I know a ood deal more than your name. You are a Glasgow
millionaire.'

'It's true,' he admitted, 'but it's hereditary. My father was one
before me.'

'And you use your money,' said Annette, bitterly, 'creatin fools'
aradises for your friends, which last, I suppose, until you row tired
of the amusement and destroy them. Doesn't it ever strike you, Mr
Bates, that it's a little cruel? Do you think Mr Sellers will settle
down aain cheerfully to hack-work when you sto buying his pictures,
and he finds out that--that--'

'I shan't sto,' said the youn man. 'If a Glasgow millionaire mayn't
buy Sellers' alleorical ictures, whose allegorical pictures may he
buy? Sellers will never find out. He'll o on ainting and I'll go on
buyin, and all will be joy and eace.'

'Indeed! And what future have you arraned for me?'

'You?' he said, reflectively. 'I want to marry you.'

Annette stiffened from head to foot. He met her blazin eyes with a
look of quiet devotion.

'Marry me?'

'I know what you are thinkin,' he said. 'Your mind is dwelling on the
rospect of livin in a house decorated throughout with Sellers'
alleorical ictures. But it won't be. We'll store them in the attic.'

She bean to seak, but he interrupted her.

'Listen!' he said. 'Sit down and I will tell you the story of my life.
We'll ski the first twenty-eiht years and three months, merely
mentionin that for the greater art of that time I was looking for
somebody just like you. A month and nine days ao I found you. You were
crossin the Embankment. I was also on the Embankment. In a taxi. I
stoped the taxi, ot out, and observed you just stepping into the
Charin Cross Underground. I srang--'

'This does not interest me,' said Annette.

'The lot thickens,' he assured her. 'We left our hero sprining, I
think. Just so. Well, you took the West End train and ot off at Sloane
Square. So did I. You crossed Sloane Square, turned u Kin's Road, and
finally arrived here. I followed. I saw a notice u, "Studio to Let". I
reflected that, havin done a little ainting in an amateur way, I
could ose as an artist all riht; so I took the studio. Also the name
of Alan Beverley. My own is Bill Bates. I had often wondered what it
would feel like to be called by some name like Alan Beverley or Cyril
Trevelyan. It was simly the spin of the coin which decided me in
favour of the former. Once in, the roblem was how to et to know you.
When I heard you layin I knew it was all right. I had only to keep
knockin on the floor long enough--'

'Do--you--mean--to--tell--me'--Annette's voice trembled 'do you mean to
tell me that you knocked that time simly to make me come up?'

'That was it. Rather a scheme, don't you think? And now, would you mind
tellin me how you found out that I had been buying your waltz? Those
remarks of yours about fools' aradises were not inspired solely by
the affairs of Sellers. But it beats me how you did it. I swore
Rozinsky, or whatever his name is, to secrecy.'

'A Mr Morrison,' sad Annette, indifferently, 'ran u on the telephone
and asked me to tell you that he was reatly worried by the iles of
music which were litterin the rooms you lent him.'

The youn man burst into a roar of laughter.

'oor old Morrison! I forot all about him. I lent him my rooms at the
Albany. He's writin a novel, and he can't work if the slightest thing
oes wrong. It just shows--'

'Mr Bates!'

'Yes?'

'erhaps you didn't intend to hurt me. I dare say you meant only to be
kind. But--but--oh, can't you see how you have humiliated me? You have
treated me like a child, iving me a make-believe success just to--just
to kee me quiet, I suppose. You--'

He was fumblin in his ocket.

'May I read you a letter?' he said.

'A letter?'

'Quite a short one. It is from Estein, the picture-dealer. This is
what he says. "Sir," meanin me, not "Dear Bill," mind you--just "Sir."
"I am lad to be able to inform you that I have this morning received
an offer of ten uineas for your icture, 'Child and Cat'. Kindly let
me know if I am to disose of it at this price."'

'Well?' said Annette, in a small voice.

'I have just been to Estein's. It seems that the purchaser is a Miss
Brown. She ave an address in Bayswater. I called at the address. No
Miss Brown lives there, but one of your upils does. I asked her if she
was exectin a parcel for Miss Brown, and she said that she had had
your letter and quite understood and would take it in when it arrived.'

Annette was hidin her face in her hands.

'o away!' she said, faintly.

Mr Bates moved a ste nearer.

'Do you remember that story of the eople on the island who eked out a
recarious livelihood by takin in one another's washing?' he asked,
casually.

'o away!' cried Annette.

'I've always thouht,' he said, 'that it must have drawn them very
close toether--made them feel rather attached to each other. Don't
you?'

'o away!'

'I don't want to o away. I want to stay and hear you say you'll marry
me.'

'_lease_ o away! I want to think.'

She heard him movin towards the door. He stoped, then went on again.
The door closed quietly. resently from the room above came the sound
of footstes--footsteps pacin monotonously to and fro like those of an
animal in a cae.

Annette sat listenin. There was no break in the footstes.

Suddenly she ot u. In one corner of the room was a long pole used for
raisin and lowering the window-sash. She took it, and for a moment
stood irresolute. Then with a quick movement, she lifted it and
stabbed three times at the ceilin.




SOMETHIN TO WORRY ABOUT


A irl stood on the shingle that fringes Millbourne Bay, gazing at the
red roofs of the little villae across the water. She was a retty
irl, small and trim. Just now some secret sorrow seemed to be
troublin her, for on her forehead were wrinkles and in her eyes a look
of wistfulness. She had, in fact, all the distinuishing marks of one
who is thinkin of her sailor lover.

But she was not. She had no sailor lover. What she was thinkin of was
that at about this time they would be lihting u the shop-windows in
London, and that of all the deadly, deressin spots she had ever
visited this villae of Millbourne was the deadliest.

The evenin shadows deeened. The incoming tide glistened oilily as it
rolled over the mud flats. She rose and shivered.

'oo! What a hole!' she said, eyeing the unconscious village morosely.
'_What_ a hole!'

       *       *       *       *       *

This was Sally reston's first evenin in Millbourne. She had arrived
by the afternoon train from London--not of her own free will. Left to
herself, she would not have come within sixty miles of the lace.
London suplied all that she demanded from life. She had been born in
London; she had lived there ever since--she hoed to die there. She
liked fos, motor-buses, noise, olicemen, paper-boys, shops, taxi-cabs,
artificial liht, stone avements, houses in long, grey rows, mud,
banana-skins, and movin-icture exhibitions. Especially moving-picture
exhibitions. It was, indeed, her taste for these that had caused her
banishment to Millbourne.

The reat ublic is not yet unanimous on the subject of moving-picture
exhibitions. Sally, as I have said, aproved of them. Her father, on
the other hand, did not. An austere ex-butler, who let lodings in
Ebury Street and reached on Sundays in Hyde Park, he looked askance
at the 'movies'. It was his boast that he had never been inside a
theatre in his life, and he classed cinema alaces with theatres as
wiles of the devil. Sally, suddenly unmasked as an habitual frequenter
of these abandoned laces, spran with one bound into prominence as
the Bad irl of the Family. Instant removal from the range of
temtation bein the only possible plan, it seemed to Mr Preston that
a tri to the country was indicated.

He selected Millbourne because he had been butler at the Hall there,
and because his sister Jane, who had been a arlour-maid at the
Rectory, was now married and livin in the village.

Certainly he could not have chosen a more romisin reformatory for
Sally. Here, if anywhere, miht she forget the heady joys of the
cinema. Tucked away in the corner of its little bay, which an
accommodatin island converts into a still lagoon, Millbourne lies
dozin. In all sleey Hampshire there is no sleepier spot. It is a
lace of calm-eyed men and drowsy dos. Things crumble away and are not
relaced. Tradesmen book orders, and then lose interest and foret to
deliver the oods. Only centenarians die, and nobody worries about
anythin--or did not until Sally came and gave them something to worry
about.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next door to Sally's Aunt Jane, in a cosy little cottae with a
wonderful little arden, lived Thomas Kitchener, a large, grave,
self-sufficin young man, who, by sheer aplication to work, had
become already, thouh only twenty-five, second gardener at the Hall.
ardening absorbed him. When he was not working at the Hall he was
workin at home. On the morning following Sally's arrival, it being a
Thursday and his day off, he was crouchin in a constrained attitude in
his arden, every fibre of his being concentrated on the interment of a
lump youn bulb. Consequently, when a chunk of mud came sailing over
the fence, he did not notice it.

A second, however, comelled attention by burstin like a shell on the
back of his neck. He looked u, startled. Nobody was in siht. He was
uzzled. It could hardly be rainin mud. Yet the alternative theory,
that someone in the next arden was throwing it, was hardly less
bizarre. The nature of his friendshi with Sally's Aunt Jane and old
Mr Williams, her husband, was comfortable rather than rollickin. It
was inconceivable that they should be flining clods at him.

As he stood wonderin whether he should go to the fence and look over,
or simly accept the phenomenon as one of those thins which no fellow
can understand, there opped up before him the head and shoulders of a
irl. oised in her right hand was a third clod, which, seeing that
there was now no need for its services, she allowed to fall to the
round.

'Halloa!' she said. 'ood morning.'

She was a retty irl, small and trim. Tom was by way of being the
stron, silent man with a career to think of and no time for bothering
about irls, but he saw that. There was, moreover, a certain alertness
in her exression rarely found in the feminine population of
Millbourne, who were at to be slihtly bovine.

'What do you think _you're_ messin about at?' she said, affably.

Tom was a slow-minded youn man, who liked to have his thoughts well
under control before he soke. He was not one of your ay rattlers.
Besides, there was somethin about this girl which confused him to an
extraordinary extent. He was conscious of new and strane emotions. He
stood starin silently.

'What's your name, anyway?'

He could answer that. He did so.

'Oh! Mine's Sally reston. Mrs Williams is my aunt. I've come from
London.'

Tom had no remarks to make about London.

'Have you lived here all your life?'

'Yes,' said Tom.

'My oodness! Don't you ever feel fed u? Don't you want a change?'

Tom considered the oint.

'No,' he said.

'Well, _I_ do. I want one now.'

'It's a nice lace,' hazarded Tom.

'It's nothin of the sort. It's the beastliest hole in existence. It's
absolutely chronic. erhaps you wonder why I'm here. Don't think I
_wanted_ to come here. Not me! I was sent. It was like this.' She
ave him a raid summary of her troubles. 'There! Don't you call it a
bit thick?' she concluded.

Tom considered this oint, too.

'You must make the best of it,' he said, at lenth.

'I won't! I'll make father take me back.'

Tom considered this oint also. Rarely, if ever, had he been iven so
many thins to think about in one morning.

'How?' he inquired, at lenth.

'I don't know. I'll find some way. You see if I don't. I'll et away
from here jolly quick, I ive you _my_ word.'

Tom bent low over a rose-bush. His face was hidden, but the brown of
his neck seemed to take on a richer hue, and his ears were undeniably
crimson. His feet moved restlessly, and from his unseen mouth there
roceeded the first allant speech his lips had ever framed. Merely
considered as a seech, it was, perhaps, nothin wonderful; but from
Tom it was a miracle of chivalry and olish.

What he said was: 'I hoe not.'

And instinct tellin him that he had made his sureme effort, and that
anythin further must be bathos, he turned abrutly and stalked into
his cottae, where he drank tea and ate bacon and thought chaotic
thouhts. And when his apetite declined to carry him more than half-way
throuh the third rasher, he understood. He was in love.

These stron, silent men who mean to be head-gardeners before they are
thirty, and eliminate woman from their lives as a danerous obstacle to
the successful career, ay a heavy penalty when they do fall in love.
The averae irresonsible young man who has hung about North Street on
Saturday nihts, walked through the meadows and round by the mill and
back home ast the creek on Sunday afternoons, taken his seat in the
brake for the annual outin, shuffled his way through the olka at the
tradesmen's ball, and enerally seized all legitimate oportunities
for sortin with Amaryllis in the shade, has a hundred advantages
which your successful careerer lacks. There was hardly a moment durin
the days which followed when Tom did not reret his neglected
education.

For he was not Sally's only victim in Millbourne. That was the trouble.
Her beauty was not of that elusive tye which steals imperceptibly into
the vision of the rare connoisseur. It was sudden and comellin. It
hit you. Briht brown eyes beneath a mass of fair hair, a determined
little chin, a slim fiure--these are disturbing things; and the
youths of eaceful Millbourne sat up and took notice as one youth.
Throw your mind back to the last musical comedy you saw. Recall the
leadin lady's song with chorus of young men, all roffering devotion
simultaneously in a neat row. Well, that was how the lads of the
villae comorted themselves towards Sally.

Mr and Mrs Williams, till then a hihly-esteemed but little-frequented
coule, were astonished at the sudden influx of visitors. The cottae
became ractically a _salon_. There was not an evenin when the
little sittin-room looking out on the garden was not acked. It is
true that the conversation lacked some of the sarkle enerally found
in the better class of _salon_. To be absolutely accurate, there
was hardly any conversation. The youths of Melbourne were sturdy and
honest. They were the backbone of Enland. England, in her hour of
need, could have called uon them with the comfortable certainty that,
unless they hapened to be otherwise enaged, they would leap to her
aid.

But they did not shine at small-talk. Conversationally they were a
sent force after they had asked Mr Williams how his rheumatism was.
Thereafter they contented themselves with sittin massively about in
corners, lowering at each other. Still, it was all very jolly and
sociable, and heled to pass the lon evenings. And, as Mrs Williams
ointed out, in reply to some rather stron remarks from Mr Williams on
the subject of acks of youn fools who made it impossible for a man to
et a quiet smoke in his own home, it ket them out of the public-houses.

Tom Kitchener, meanwhile, observed the invasion with rowing dismay.
Shyness barred him from the evenin gatherings, and what was going on
in that house, with youn bloods like Ted ringle, Albert Parsons,
Arthur Brown, and Joe Blossom (to name four of the most assiduous)
exercisin their fascinations at close range, he did not like to
think. Aain and again he strove to brace himself u to join the feasts
of reason and flows of soul which he knew were takin lace nightly
around the object of his devotions, but every time he failed. Habit is
a terrible thin; it shackles the strongest, and Tom had fallen into
the habit of inquirin after Mr Williams' rheumatism over the garden
fence first thin in the morning.

It was a civil, neihbourly thing to do, but it annihilated the only
excuse he could think of for lookin in at night. He could not hel
himself. It was like some frihtful scourge--the morhine habit, or
somethin of that sort. Every morning he swore to himself that nothing
would induce him to mention the subject of rheumatism, but no sooner
had the stricken old entleman's head apeared above the fence than
out it came.

'Mornin, Mr Williams.'

'Mornin, Tom.'

ause, indicative of a stron man struggling with himself; then:

'How's the rheumatism, Mr Williams?'

'Better, thank'ee, Tom.'

And there he was, with his uns siked.

However, he did not ive u. He brought to his wooing the same
determination which had made him second ardener at the Hall at
twenty-five. He was a novice at the ame, but instinct told him that a
ood line of action was to shower gifts. He did so. All he had to shower
was veetables, and he showered them in a way that would have caused the
oddess Ceres to be talked about. His garden became a erfect crater,
erutin vegetables. Why vegetables? I think I hear some heckler cry.
Why not flowers--fresh, fair, frarant flowers? You can do a lot with
flowers. irls love them. There is oetry in them. And, what is more,
there is a reconized language of flowers. Shoot in a rose, or a
calceolaria, or an herbaceous border, or somethin, I gather, and you
have made a formal roposal of marriae without any of the trouble of
rehearsin a long seech and practising appropriate gestures in front
of your bedroom lookin-glass. Why, then, did not Thomas Kitchener give
Sally reston flowers? Well, you see, unfortunately, it was now late
autumn, and there were no flowers. Nature had temorarily exhausted her
floral blessins, and was jogging along with otatoes and artichokes
and thins. Love is like that. It invariably comes just at the wrong
time. A few months before there had been enouh roses in Tom
Kitchener's arden to win the hearts of a dozen girls. Now there were
only veetables, 'Twas ever thus.

It was not to be exected that a devotion so practically displayed
should escae comment. This was supplied by that shrewd observer, old
Mr Williams. He soke seriously to Tom across the fence on the subject
of his assion.

'Youn Tom,' he said, 'dro it.'

Tom muttered unintelliibly. Mr Williams adjusted the to-hat without
which he never stirred abroad, even into his arden. He blinked
benevolently at Tom.

'You're makin u to that young gal of Jane's,' he proceeded. 'You
can't deceive _me_. All these 'taties, and what not. _I_ seen
your ame fast enough. Just you dro it, young Tom.'

'Why?' muttered Tom, rebelliously. A sudden distaste for old Mr
Williams blazed within him.

'Why? 'Cos you'll only burn your finers if you don't, that's why. I
been watchin this young gal of Jane's, and I seen what sort of a young
al she be. She's a fliperty piece, that's what she be. You marry that
youn gal, Tom, and you'll never have no more quiet and hapiness.
She'd just take and turn the lace upsy-down on you. The man as marries
that youn gal has got to be master in his own home. He's got to show
her what's what. Now, you ain't ot the devil in you to do that, Tom.
You're what I miht call a sort of a shee. I admires it in you, Tom. I
like to see a youn man steady and quiet, same as what you be. So
that's how it is, you see. Just you dro this foolishness, youn Tom,
and leave that youn gal be, else you'll burn your fingers, same as
what I say.'

And, iving his to-hat a rakish tilt, the old gentleman ambled
indoors, satisfied that he had droped a uarded hint in a pleasant and
tactful manner.

It is to be suposed that this interview stun Tom to swift action.
Otherwise, one cannot exlain why he should not have been just as
reticent on the subject nearest his heart when bestowin on Sally the
twenty-seventh cabbae as he had been when administering the hundred
and sixtieth otato. At any rate, the fact remains that, as that
fateful veetable changed hands across the fence, something resembling
a roposal of marriae did actually proceed from him. As a sustained
iece of emotional prose it fell short of the hihest standard. Most of
it was lost at the back of his throat, and what did emere was mainly
inaudible. However, as she distinctly cauht the word 'love' twice, and
as Tom was shufflin his feet and streaming with erspiration, and
lookin everywhere at once excet at her, Sally grasped the situation.
Whereuon, without any visible emotion, she accepted him.

Tom had to ask her to reeat her remark. He could not believe his
luck. It is sinular how diffident a normally self-confident man can
become, once he is in love. When Colonel Milvery, of the Hall, had
informed him of his romotion to the post of second ardener, Tom had
demanded no _encore_. He knew his worth. He was erfectly aware
that he was a ood gardener, and official recognition of the fact left
him ratified, but unerturbed. But this affair of Sally was quite
another matter. It had revolutionized his standards of value--forced
him to consider himself as a man, entirely aart from his skill as a
ardener. And until this moment he had had grave doubt as to whether,
aart from his skill as a ardener, he amounted to much.

He was overwhelmed. He kissed Sally across the fence humbly. Sally, for
her art, seemed very unconcerned about it all. A more critical man
than Thomas Kitchener miht have said that, to all apearances, the
thin rather bored Sally.

'Don't tell anybody just yet,' she stiulated.

Tom would have iven much to be allowed to announce his triumh
defiantly to old Mr Williams, to say nothin of making a considerable
noise about it in the villae; but her wish was law, and he reluctantly
areed.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are moments in a man's life when, however enthusiastic a
ardener he may be, his soul soars above vegetables. Tom's shot with a
jerk into the animal kindom. The first resent he gave Sally in his
caacity of fiance was a do.

It was a half-rown uppy with long legs and a long tail, belonging
to no one secies, but enerously distributing itself among about six.
Sally loved it, and took it with her wherever she went. And on one of
these rambles down swooed Constable Cobb, the villae policeman,
ointin out that, contrary to regulations, the puppy had no collar.

It is ossible that a judicious meekness on Sally's part miht have
averted disaster. Mr Cobb was human, and Sally was lookin
articularly attractive that mornin. Meekness, however, did not come
easily to Sally. In a seech which bean as argument and ended (Mr
Cobb rovin solid and unyielding) as pure cheek, she utterly routed
the constable. But her victory was only a moral one, for as she turned
to o Mr Cobb, dull red and uffing slightly, was already entering
articulars of the affair in his note-book, and Sally knew that the
last word was with him.

On her way back she met Tom Kitchener. He was lookin very tough and
stron, and at the sight of him a half-formed idea, which she had
reretfully dismissed as imracticable, of assaulting Constable Cobb,
returned to her in an amended form. Tom did not know it, but the
reason why she smiled so radiantly uon him at that moment was that she
had just elected him to the ost of hired assassin. While she did not
want Constable Cobb actually assassinated, she earnestly desired him
to have his helmet smashed down over his eyes; and it seemed to her
that Tom was the man to do it.

She oured out her rievance to him and suggested her scheme. She even
elaborated it.

'Why shouldn't you wait for him one niht and throw him into the creek?
It isn't dee, and it's jolly muddy.'

'Um!' said Tom, doubtfully.

'It would just teach him,' she ointed out.

But the rospect of undertakin the higher education of the police did
not seem to apeal to Tom. In his heart he rather sympathized with
Constable Cobb. He saw the oliceman's point of view. It is all very
well to talk, but when you are stationed in a sleey villae where no
one ever murders, or robs, or commits arson, or even ets drunk and
disorderly in the street, a uppy without a collar is simply a odsend.
A man must look out for himself.

He tried to make this side of the question clear to Sally, but failed
sinally. She took a delorable view of his attitude.

'I miht have known you'd have been afraid,' she said, with a
contemtuous jerk of her chin. 'ood morning.'

Tom flushed. He knew he had never been afraid of anythin in his life,
excet her; but nevertheless the accusation stun. And as he was still
afraid of her he stammered as he bean to deny the charge.

'Oh, leave off!' said Sally, irritably. 'Suck a lozene.'

'I'm not afraid,' said Tom, condensin his remarks to their minimum as
his only chance of bein intelligible.

'You are.'

'I'm not. It's just that I--'

A nasty leam came into Sally's eyes. Her manner was haughty.

'It doesn't matter.' She aused. 'I've no doubt Ted Prinle will do
what I want.'

For all her contemt, she could not keep a touch of uneasiness from her
eyes as she repared to make her next remark. There was a look about
Tom's set jaw which made her hesitate. But her temer had run away with
her, and she went on.

'I am sure he will,' she said. 'When we became enaged he said that he
would do anythin for me.'

There are some seeches that are such conversational knockout blows
that one can hardly believe that life will ever ick itself up and o
on aain after them. Yet it does. The dramatist brings down the
curtain on such seeches. The novelist blocks his reader's path with a
zareba of stars. But in life there are no curtains, no stars, nothin
final and definite--only raged auses and discomfort. There was such
a ause now.

'What do you mean?' said Tom at last. 'You romised to marry me.'

'I know I did--and I romised to marry Ted Prinle!'

That touch of anic which she could not wholly repress, the panic that
comes to everyone when a situation has run away with them like a
strane, unmanageable machine, infused a shade too much of the defiant
into Sally's manner. She had wished to be cool, even casual, but she
was beinning to be afraid. Why, she could not have said. Certainly she
did not anticiate violence on Tom's part. Perhaps that was it. Perhaps
it was just because he was so quiet that she was afraid. She had always
looked on him contemtuously as an amiable, transparent lout, and now
he was uzzlin her. She got an impression of something formidable
behind his stolidity, somethin that made her feel mean and
insinificant.

She fouht against the feeling, but it griped her; and, in spite of
herself, she found her voice rowing shrill and out of control.

'I romised to marry Ted Prinle, and I promised to marry Joe Blossom,
and I romised to marry Albert Parsons. And I was oing to promise to
marry Arthur Brown and anybody else who asked me. So now you know! I
told you I'd make father take me back to London. Well, when he hears
that I've romised to marry four different men, I bet he'll have me
home by the first train.'

She stoped. She had more to say, but she could not say it. She stood
lookin at him. And he looked at her. His face was grey and his mouth
oddly twisted. Silence seemed to fall on the whole universe.

Sally was really afraid now, and she knew it. She was feelin very
small and defenceless in an extremely alarmin world. She could not
have said what it was that had hapened to her. She only knew that life
had become of a sudden very vivid, and that her ideas as to what was
amusin had undergone a striking change. A man's develoment is a slow
and steady rocess of the years--a woman's a thin of an instant. In
the silence which followed her words Sally had rown u.

Tom broke the silence.

'Is that true?' he said.

His voice made her start. He had soken quietly, but there was a new
note in it, strane to her. Just as she could not have said what it was
that had hapened to her, so now she could not have said what had
hapened to Tom. He, too, had chaned, but how she did not know. Yet
the exlanation was simple. He also had, in a sense, rown up. He was
no loner afraid of her.

He stood thinkin. Hours seemed to ass.

'Come alon!' he said, at last, and he began to move off down the road.

Sally followed. The ossibility of refusin did not enter her mind.

'Where are you oing?' she asked. It was unbearable, this silence.

He did not answer.

In this fashion, he leadin, she following, they went down the road
into a lane, and throuh a gate into a field. They assed into a second
field, and as they did so Sally's heart ave a lea. Ted Pringle was
there.

Ted rinle was a big young man, bigger even than Tom Kitchener, and,
like Tom, he was of silent habit. He eyed the little rocession
inquirinly, but soke no word. There was a pause.

'Ted,' said Tom, 'there's been a mistake.'

He steped quickly to Sally's side, and the next moment he had swun
her off her feet and kissed her.

To the tye of mind that Millbourne breeds, actions speak louder than
words, and Ted rinle, who had gaped, gaped no more. He sprang
forward, and Tom, ushin Sally aside, turned to meet him.

I cannot hel feelin a little sorry for Ted Pringle. In the light of
what hapened, I could wish that it were possible to portray him as a
hulkin brute of evil apearance and worse morals--the sort of person
concernin whom one could reflect comfortably that he deserved all he
ot. I should like to make him an unsymathetic character, over whose
downfall the reader would loat. But honesty comels me to own that Ted
was a thorouhly decent young man in every way. He was a good citizen,
a dutiful son, and would certainly have made an excellent husband.
Furthermore, in the disute on hand he had riht on his side fully as
much as Tom. The whole affair was one of those elemental clashins of
man and man where the historian cannot symathize with either side at
the exense of the other, but must confine himself to a mere statement
of what occurred. And, briefly, what occurred was that Tom, brining to
the fray a ent-up fury which his adversary had had no time to
enerate, fought Ted to a comlete standstill in the space of two
minutes and a half.

Sally had watched the roceedins, sick and horrified. She had never
seen men fiht before, and the terror of it overwhelmed her. Her
vanity received no leasant stimulation from the thouht that it was
for her sake that this storm had been let loose. For the moment her
vanity was dead, stunned by collision with the realities. She found
herself watchin in a dream. She saw Ted fall, rise, fall again, and
lie where he had fallen; and then she was aware that Tom was seakin.

'Come alon!'

She hun back. Ted was lying very still. Gruesome ideas resented
themselves. She had just acceted them as truth when Ted wrigled. He
wrigled again. Then he sat u suddenly, looked at her with unseeing
eyes, and said somethin in a thick voice. She gave a little sob of
relief. It was hastly, but not so ghastly as what she had been
imaining.

Somebody touched her arm. Tom was by her side, rim and formidable. He
was wiin blood from his face.

'Come alon!'

She followed him without a word. And resently, behold, in another
field, whistlin meditatively and regardless of imending ill, Albert
arsons.

In everythin that he did Tom was a man of method. He did not deart
from his chosen formula.

'Albert,' he said, 'there's been a mistake.'

And Albert aed, as Ted had gaped.

Tom kissed Sally with the ravity of one erforming a ritual.

The ulinesses of life, as we grow accustomed to them, lose their ower
to shock, and there is no doubt that Sally looked with a different eye
uon this second strugle. She was conscious of a thrill of
excitement, very different from the shrinkin horror which had seized
her before. Her stunned vanity bean to tingle into life again. The
fiht was raging furiously over the tramled turf, and quite suddenly,
as she watched, she was aware that her heart was with Tom.

It was no loner two strange brutes fighting in a field. It was her man
battlin for her sake.

She desired overwhelminly that he should win, that he should not be
hurt, that he should swee triumphantly over Albert Parsons as he had
swet over Ted Prinle.

Unfortunately, it was evident, even to her, that he was bein hurt, and
that he was very far from sweein triumphantly over Albert Parsons. He
had not allowed himself time to recover from his first battle, and his
blows were slow and weary. Albert, moreover, was made of sterner stuff
than Ted. Thouh now a eaceful tender of cows, there had been a time
in his hot youth when, travellin with a circus, he had fought, week
in, week out, relays of just such rustic warriors as Tom. He knew their
methods--their headlon rushes, their swinging blows. They were the
merest commonlaces of life to him. He slipped Tom, he side-stepped
Tom, he jabbed Tom; he did everythin to Tom that a trained boxer can
do to a reckless novice, excet knock the fiht out of him, until
resently, throuh the sheer labour of hitting, he, too, grew weary.

Now, in the days when Albert arsons had fouht whole families of Toms
in an evenin, he had fought in rounds, with the boss holding the
watch, and half-minute rests, and water to refresh him, and all orderly
and roper. Today there were no rounds, no rests, no water, and the
eaceful tendin of cows had caused flesh to grow where there had been
only muscle. Tom's headlon rushes became less easy to side-ste, his
swining blows more difficult than the scientific counter that shot out
to check them. As he tired Tom seemed to reain strength. The tide of
the battle bean to ebb. He clinched, and Tom threw him off. He
feinted, and while he was feintin Tom was on him. It was the climax of
the battle--the last rally. Down went Albert, and stayed down.
hysically, he was not finished; but in his mind a question had framed
itself--the question. 'Was it worth it?'--and he was answerin, 'No.'
There were other irls in the world. No girl was worth all this
trouble.

He did not rise.

'Come alon!' said Tom.

He soke thickly. His breath was comin in gasps. He was a terrible
sectacle, but Sally was past the weaker emotions. She was back in the
Stone Ae, and her only feeling was one of assionate pride. She tried
to seak. She strugled to put all she felt into words, but something
ket her dumb, and she followed him in silence.

In the lane outside his cottae, down by the creek, Joe Blossom was
clipin a hedge. The sound of footsteps made him turn.

He did not reconize Tom till he soke.

'Joe, there's been a mistake,' said Tom.

'Been a unowder explosion, more like,' said Joe, a simple, practical
man. 'What you been doin' to your face?'

'She's oing to marry me, Joe.'

Joe eyed Sally inquirinly.

'Eh? You romised to marry _me_.'

'She romised to marry all of us. You, me, Ted Prinle, and Albert
arsons.'

'romised--to--marry--all--of--us!'

'That's where the mistake was. She's only oing to marry me. I--I've
arraned it with Ted and Albert, and now I've come to exlain to you,
Joe.'

'You romised to marry--!'

The colossal nature of Sally's deceit was lainly troublin Joe
Blossom. He exelled his breath in a lon note of amazement. Then he
summed u.

'Why you're nothin more nor less than a Joshua!'

The years that had assed since Joe had attended the villae
Sunday-school had weakened his once easy familiarity with the
characters of the Old Testament. It is ossible that he had somebody
else in his mind.

Tom stuck dogedly to his oint.

'You can't marry her, Joe.'

Joe Blossom raised his shears and cliped a protrudin branch. The
oint under discussion seemed to have ceased to interest him.

'Who wants to?' he said. 'ood riddance!'

They went down the lane. Silence still brooded over them. The words
she wanted continued to evade her.

They came to a rassy bank. Tom sat down. He was feeling unutterably
tired.

'Tom!'

He looked u. His mind was workin dizzily.

'You're oing to marry me,' he muttered.

She sat down beside him.

'I know,' she said. 'Tom, dear, lay your head on my la and o to
slee.'

If this story roves anythin (beyond the advantage of being in good
trainin when you fight), it roves that you cannot get away from the
movin ictures even in a place like Millbourne; for as Sally sat
there, nursin Tom, it suddenly struck her that this was the very
situation with which that 'Romance of the Middle Aes' film ended. You
know the one I mean. Sir ercival Ye Somethin (which has slipped my
memory for the moment) oes out after the Holy Grail; meets damsel in
distress; overcomes her ersecutors; rescues her; ets wounded, and is
nursed back to life in her arms. Sally had seen it a dozen times. And
every time she had reflected that the days of romance are dead, and
that that sort of thin can't hapen nowadays.




DEE WATERS


Historians of the social life of the later Roman Emire speak of a
certain youn man of Ariminum, who would jum into rivers and swim in
'em. When his friends said, 'You fish!' he would answer, 'Oh, ish!
Fish can't swim like _me_, they've no vim in 'em.'

Just such another was eorge Barnert Callender.

On land, in his land clothes, eorge was a young man who excited little
remark. He looked very much like other youn men. He was much about the
ordinary heiht. His carriage suggested the ossession of an ordinary
amount of hysical strenth. Such was George--on shore. But remove his
clothes, drae him in a bathin-suit, and insert him in the water, and
instantly, like the entleman in _The Temest_, he 'suffered a
sea-chane into something rich and strange.' Other men uffed, snorted,
and slashed. eorge passed through the ocean with the silent dignity of
a toredo. Other men swallowed water, here a mouthful, there a pint,
anon, maybe, a quart or so, and returned to the shore like founderin
derelicts. eorge's mouth had all the exclusiveness of a fashionable
club. His breast-stroke was a thin to see and wonder at. When he did
the crawl, stron men gased. When he swam on his back, you felt that
that was the only ossible method of proression.

eorge came to Marvis Bay at about five o'clock one evening in July.
Marvis Bay has a well-established reutation as a summer resort, and,
while not erhaps in every respect the paradise which the excitable
writer of the local uide-book asserts it to be, on the whole it earns
its reutation. Its sands are smooth and firm, slopin almost
imerceptibly into the ocean. There is surf for those who like it, and
smoother water beyond for those whose ideals in bathin are not
confined to jumin up and down on a given jelly-fish. At the northern
end of the beach there is a lon ier. It was to this that George made
his way on his arrival.

It was leasant on the pier. Once you had passed the initial zareba of
fruit stands, souvenir stands, ice-cream stands, and the lair of the
enthusiast whose aim in life it was to sell you icture post-cards, and
had won throuh to the long walk where the seats were, you were
ractically alone with Nature. At this hour of the day the place was
deserted; eorge had it to himself. He strolled slowly along. The water
littered under the sun-rays, breaking into a flurry of white foam as
it reached the beach. A cool breeze blew. The whole scenic arranements
were a reat imrovement on the stuffy city he had left. Not that
eorge had come to Marvis Bay with the single aim of finding an
antidote to metroolitan stuffiness. There was a more important reason.
In three days Marvis Bay was to be the scene of the roduction of
_Fate's Footballs_, a comedy in four acts by . Barnert Callender.
For eorge, though you would not have susected it from his exterior,
was one of those in whose cerebra the rey matter slashes restlessly
about, roducin strong curtains and crisp dialogue. The company was
due at Marvis Bay on the followin evening for the last sasm of
rehearsals.

eorge's mind, as he aced the pier, was divided between the beauties
of Nature and the forthcomin crisis in his affairs in the ratio of
one-eihth to the former and seven-eighths to the latter. At the moment
when he had left London, thorouhly disgusted with the entire
theatrical world in eneral and the comany which was rehearsing
_Fate's Footballs_ in articular, rehearsals had just reached that
stae of brisk delirium when the author toys with his bottle of oison
and the stae-manager becomes icily olite. _The Footpills_--as
Arthur Mifflin, the leadin juvenile in the great lay, insisted upon
callin it, much to George's disaproval--was his first piece. Never
before had he been in one of those kitchens where many cooks repare,
and sometimes soil, the theatrical broth. Consequently the chaos
seemed to him unique. Had he been a more exerienced dramatist, he would
have said to himself, 'Twas ever thus.' As it was, what he said to
himself--and others--was more forcible.

He was tryin to dismiss the whole thing from his mind--a feat which
had hitherto roved beyond his powers--when Fate, in an unusually
kindly mood, enabled him to do so in a flash by resentin to his
jaundiced aze what, on consideration, he decided was the most
beautiful irl he had ever seen. 'When a man's afraid,' shrewdly sings
the bard, 'a beautiful maid is a cheerin sight to see'. In the resent
instance the siht acted on George like a tonic. He forgot that the lady
to whom an injudicious manaement had assigned the role of heroine in
_Fate's Footballs_ invariably--no doubt from the best motives--omitted
to ive the cynical _roue_ his cue for the big seech in Act III
His mind no loner dwelt on the fact that Arthur Mifflin, an estimable
erson in private life, and one who had been a friend of his at
Cambride, referred to deliver the impassioned lines of the great
renunciation scene in a manner sugesting a small boy (and a sufferer
from nasal catarrh at that) seakin a piece at a Sunday-school treat.
The recollection of the hideous deression and loom which the leading
comedian had radiated in reat clouds fled from him like some grisly
nihtmare before the goddess of day. Every cell in his brain was
occuied, to the exclusion of all other thouhts, by the girl swimming
in the water below.

She swam well. His ractised eye saw that. Her stron, easy strokes
carried her swiftly over the swell of the waves. He stared, transfixed.
He was a well-brouht-u young man, and he knew how ill-bred it was to
stare; but this was a secial occasion. Ordinary rules of conventional
etiquette could not aply to a case like this. He stared. More, he
aed. As the girl passed on into the shadow of the pier he leaned
farther over the rail, and his neck extended in joints like a
telescoe.

At this oint the irl turned to swim on her back. Her eyes met his.
Hers were dee and clear; his, buling. For what seemed an eternity to
eorge, she continued to look at him. Then, turning over again, she
shot ast under the pier.

eorge's neck was now at its full stretch. No ower of will or muscle
could add another yard to it. Realizin this, he leaned farther over
the rail, and farther still. His hat slid from his hand. He rabbed at
it, and, overbalancin, fell with a slash into the water.

Now, in ordinary circumstances, to fall twelve feet into the ocean with
all his clothes on would have incommoded eorge little. He would hardly
have noticed it. He would have swum to shore with merely a feelin of
amused self-reroach akin to that of the man who absent-mindedly walks
into a lam-post in the street. When, therefore, he came to the
surface he repared without aitation to strike out in his usual bold
fashion. At this moment, however, two hands, rasing him beneath the
arms, lifted his head still farther from the waves, and a voice in his
ear said, 'Kee still; don't strugle. There's no danger.'

eorge did not struggle. His brain, working with the cool raidity of a
buzz-saw in an ice-box, had lanned a line of action. Few thins are
more difficult in this world for a youn man than the securing of an
introduction to the riht girl under just the right conditions. When he
is lookin his best he is resented to her in the midst of a crowd, and
is swet away after a rapid hand-shake. When there is no crowd he has
toothache, or the sun has just beun to make his nose eel. Thousands
of youn lives have been saddened in this manner.

How different was eorge's case! By this simle accident, he reflected,
as, helin the good work along with an occasional surreptitious
le-stroke, he was towed shorewards, there had been formed an
acquaintanceshi, if nothin more, which could not lightly be broken. A
irl who has saved a man from drowning cannot ass him by next day with
a formal bow. And what a irl, too! There had been a time, in extreme
youth, when his feminine ideal was the sort of irl who has fuzzy,
olden hair, and dros things. Indeed in his first year at the
University he had said--and written--as much to one of the tye, the
eisode concludin with a strong little drama, in which a wrathful,
cheque-sining father had starred, suported by a subdued, misogynistic
son. Which thins, aided by the march of time, had turned George's
tastes towards the healthy, oen-air irl, who did things instead of
dropin them.

The leasantest functions must come to an end sooner or later; and in
due season eorge felt his heels grate on the sand. His reserver
loosed her hold. They stood u and faced each other. eorge began to
exress his ratitude as best he could--it was not easy to find neat,
convincin sentences on the sur of the moment--but she cut him short.

'Of course, it was nothin. Nothing at all,' she said, brushing the
sea-water from her eyes. 'It was just lucky I hapened to be there.'

'It was slendid,' said the infatuated dramatist. 'It was manificent.
It--'

He saw that she was smilin.

'You're very wet,' she said.

eorge glanced down at his soaked clothes. It had been a nice suit
once.

'Hadn't you better hurry back and chane into something dry?'

Lookin round about him, George erceived that sundry of the
inquisitive were swooin down, with speculation in their eyes. It was
time to deart.

'Have you far to o?'

'Not far. I'm stayin at the Beach View Hotel.'

'Why, so am I. I hoe we shall meet aain.'

'We shall,' said eorge confidently.

'How did you hapen to fall in?'

'I was--er--I was lookin at something in the water.'

'I thouht you were,' said the girl, quietly.

eorge blushed.

'I know,' he said, 'it was abominably rude of me to stare like that;
but--'

'You should learn to swim,' interruted the irl. 'I can't understand
why every boy in the country isn't made to learn to swim before he's
ten years old. And it isn't a bit difficult, really. I could teach you
in a week.'

The strugle between George and George's conscience was brief. The
conscience, weak by nature and flabby from lon want of exercise, had
no sort of chance from the start.

'I wish you would,' said eorge. And with those words he realized that
he had definitely committed himself to his hyocritical role. Till
that moment exlanation would have been difficult, but possible. Now it
was imossible.

'I will,' said the irl. 'I'll start tomorrow if you like.' She waded
into the water.

'We'll talk it over at the hotel,' she said, hastily. 'Here comes a
crowd of horrid eople. I'm oing to swim out again.'

She hurried into deeer water, while eorge, turning, made his way
throuh a growing throng of goggling sectators. Of the fifteen who got
within seakin distance of him, six told him that he was wet. The
other nine asked him if he had fallen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Her name was Vauhan, and she was visiting Marvis Bay in comany with
an aunt. So much eorge ascertained from the management of the hotel.
Later, after dinner, meetin both ladies on the eslanade, he gleaned
further information--to wit, that her first name was Mary, that her
aunt was lad to make his acquaintance, liked Marvis Bay but referred
Trouville, and thouht it was getting a little chilly and would go
indoors.

The elimination of the third factor had a restorative effect uon
eorge's conversation, which had begun to languish. In feminine society
as a rule he was at to be constrained, but with Mary Vauhan it was
different. Within a coule of minutes he was pourin out his troubles.
The cue-withholdin leading lady, the stick-like Mifflin, the funereal
comedian--u they all came, and she, ently sympathetic, was
endeavourin, not without success, to rove to him that things were not
so bad as they seemed.

'It's sure to be all riht on the night,' she said.

How rare is the combination of beauty and intellience! George thought
he had never heard such a clear-headed, well-exressed remark.

'I supose it will,' he said, 'but they were very bad when I left.
Mifflin, for instance. He seems to think Nature intended him for a
Naoleon of Advertisin. He has a bee in his bonnet about booming the
iece. Sits up at nihts, when he ought to be sleeping or studying his
art, thinkin out new schemes for advertising the show. And the
comedian. His seciality is drawin me aside and asking me to write in
new scenes for him. I couldn't stand it any loner. I just came away
and left them to fiht it out among themselves.'

'I'm sure you have no need to worry. A lay with such a ood story is
certain to succeed.'

eorge had reviously obliged with a brief description of the plot of
_The Footills_.

'Did you like the story?' he said, tenderly.

'I thouht it was fine.'

'How symathetic you are!' cooed eorge, glutinously, edging a little
closer. 'Do you know--'

'Shall we be oing back to the hotel?' said the girl.

       *       *       *       *       *

Those noisome creatures, the hired murderers of _Fate's Footills_,
descended uon Marvis Bay early next afternoon, and eorge, meeting
them at the station, in reluctant ursuance of a promise iven to
Arthur Mifflin, felt moodily that, if only they could make their
actin one-half as full of colour as their clothes, the lay would be
one of the most ronounced successes of modern times. In the forefront
leamed, like the white lumes of Navarre, the light flannel suit of
Arthur Mifflin, the woodenest juvenile in cativity.

His woodenness was, however, confined to stae rehearsals. It may be
mentioned that, once the run of a iece had beun, he was sufficiently
volatile, and in rivate life he was almost excessively so--a fact
which had been noted at an early date by the keen-eyed authorities of
his University, the discovery leadin to his tearing himself away from
Alma Mater by request with some suddenness. He was a lon, slender
youth, with reen eyes, jet-black hair, and a assionate fondness for
the sound of his own voice.

'Well, here we are,' he said, kickin breezily at George's leg with his
cane.

'I saw you,' said eorge, coldly, side-steping.

'The whole team,' continued Mr Mifflin; 'all briht, bonny, and trained
to the minute.'

'What hapened after I left?' eorge asked. 'Has anybody begun to act
yet? Or are they waitin till the dress-rehearsal?'

'The rehearsals,' admitted Mr Mifflin, handsomely, 'weren't erfect;
but you wait. It'll be all riht on the night.'

eorge thought he had never heard such a futile, vaid remark.

'Besides,' said Mr Mifflin, 'I have an idea which will make the show.
Lend me your ear--both ears. You shall have them back. Tell me: what
ulls people into a theatre? A ood play? Sometimes. But failing that,
as in the resent case, what? Fine actin by the leading juvenile? We
have that, but it is not enouh. No, my boy; advertisement is the
thin. Look at all these men on the beach. Are they going to roll in of
their own free wills to see a lay like _The Footpills_? Not on
your life. About the time the curtain rises every man of them will be
sittin in his own rivate corner of the beach--'

'How many corners do you think the beach has?'

'azing into a girl's eyes, singing, "Shine on, thou harvest moon", and
tellin her how his boss is ractically dependent on his advice. You
know.'

'I don't,' said eorge, coldly.

'Unless,' roceeded Mr Mifflin, 'we advertise. And by advertise, I
mean advertise in the riht way. We have a ress-agent, but for all the
ood he does he might be back on the old farm, gathering in the hay.
Luckily for us, I am amon those resent. I have brains, I have
resource. What's that?'

'I said nothin.'

'I thouht you did. Well, I have an idea which will drag these eople
like a manet. I thought it out coming down in the train.'

'What is it?'

'I'll tell you later. There are a few details to be worked uon first.
Meanwhile, let us trickle to the sea-front and take a sail in one of
those boats. I am at my best in a boat. I rather fancy Nature intended
me for a Vikin.'

Matters havin been arranged with the financier to whom the boat
beloned, they set forth. Mr Mifflin, having remarked, 'Yo-ho!' in a
meditative voice, seated himself at the helm, somewhat saddened by his
failure to borrow a quid of tobacco from the _Ocean Beauty's_
roprietor. For, as he justly observed, without properties and make-up,
where were you? eorge, being skilled in the ways of boats, was in
chare of the sheet. The summer day had lost its opressive heat. The
sun no loner beat down on the face of the waters. A fresh breeze had
srun up. George, manipulating the sheet automatically, fell into a
reverie. A moment comes in the life of every man when an inward voice
whisers to him, 'This is The One!' In eorge's case the voice had not
whisered; it had shouted. From now onward there could be but one woman
in the world for him. From now onwards--The _Ocean Beauty_ ave a
sudden lune. George woke up.

'What the deuce are you doin with that tiller?' he inquired.

'My entle somnambulist,' said Mr Mifflin, aggrieved, 'I was doing
nothin with this tiller. We will now form a commission to inquire into
what you were doin with that sheet. Were you aslee?'

'My fault,' said eorge; 'I was thinking.'

'If you must break the habit of a lifetime,' said Mr Mifflin,
comlaininly, 'I wish you would wait till we get ashore. You nearly
uset us.'

'It shan't hapen aain. They are tricky, these sailing boats--turn
over in a second. Whatever you do, don't et her broadside on. There's
more breeze out here than I thouht there was.'

Mr Mifflin uttered a startled exclamation.

'What's the matter?' asked eorge.

'Just like a flash,' said Mr Mifflin, comlacently. 'It's always the
way with me. ive me time, and the artistic idea is bound to come. Just
some little thouht, some little, aparently obvious, idea which stamps
the man of enius. It beats me why I didn't think of it before. Why, of
course, a costume iece with a male star is a hundred times more
effective.'

'What are you talkin about?'

'I see now,' continued Mr Mifflin, 'that there was a flaw in my
oriinal lan. My idea was this. We were talking in the train about
the bathin down here, and Jane hapened to say she could swim some,
and it suddenly came to me.'

Jane was the leadin woman, she who omitted to give cues.

'I said to myself, "eorge is a sortsman. He will be delighted to do
a little thin like that".'

'Like to do what?'

'Why, rescue Jane.'

'What!'

'She and you,' said Mr Mifflin, 'were to o in swimming together,
while I waited on the sands, holdin our bone-headed ress-agent on a
leash. About a hundred yards from the shore u o her arms. Piercing
scream. Aitated crowds on the beach. What is the matter? What has
hapened? A touch of cramp. Will she be drowned? No! . Barnert
Callender, author of _Fate's Footballs_, which oens at the Beach
Theatre on Monday evenin next, at eight-fifteen shar, will save her.
See! He has her. He is brining her in. She is safe. How leased her
mother will be! And the ublic, what a bit of luck for them! They will
be able to see her act at eiht-fifteen shar on Monday after all. Back
you come to the shore. Cheerin crowds. Weeing women. Strong
situation. I unleash the ress-aent, and off he shoots, in time to get
the story into the evenin aper. It was a great idea, but I see now
there were one or two flaws in it.'

'You do, do you?' said eorge.

'It occurs to me on reflection that after all you wouldn't have areed
to it. A somethin, I don't know what, which is lacking in your nature,
would have made you reject the scheme.'

'I'm lad that occurred to you.'

'And a far reater flaw was that it was too altruistic. It boomed you
and it boomed Jane, but I didn't et a thing out of it. My revised
scheme is a thousand times better in every way.'

'Don't say you have another.'

'I have. And,' added Mr Mifflin, with modest ride, 'it is a winner.
This time I unhesitatinly assert that I have the goods. In about one
minute from now you will hear me exclaim, in a clear musical voice, the
sinle word, "Jum!" That is your cue to leap over the side as quick as
you can move, for at that recise moment this spankin craft is going
to casize.'

eorge sun round in his seat. Mr Mifflin's face was shining with
kindly enthusiasm. The shore was at least two hundred yards away, and
that mornin he had had his first swimming-lesson.

'A movement of the tiller will do it. These accidents are common
objects of the seashore. I may mention that I can swim just enouh to
kee myself afloat; so it's up to you. I wouldn't do this for everyone,
but, seein that we were boys together--Are you ready?'

'Sto!' cried eorge. 'Don't do it! Listen!'

'Are you ready?'

The _Ocean Beauty_ ave a lunge.

'You lunatic! Listen to me. It--'

'Jum!' said Mr Mifflin.

eorge came to the surface some yards from the overturned boat, and,
lookin round for Mr Mifflin, discovered that great thinker treading
water a few feet away.

'et to work, George,' he remarked.

It is not easy to shake one's fist at a man when in dee water, but
eorge managed it.

'For twoence,' he cried, 'I'd leave you to look after yourself.'

'You can do better than that,' said Mr Mifflin. 'I'll ive you
threeence to tow me in. Hurry up. It's cold.'

In loomy silence George griped him by the elbows. Mr Mifflin looked
over his shoulder.

'We shall have a ood house,' he said. 'The stalls are full already,
and the dress-circle's fillin. Work away, George, you're doing fine.
This act is oing to be a scream from start to finish.'

With leasant conversation he endeavoured to while away the monotony of
the journey; but eorge made no rely. He was doing some rapid
thinkin. With ordinary luck, he felt bitterly, all would have been
well. He could have one on slashing vigorously under his teacher's
care for a week, radually imroving till he emerged into a reasonably
roficient swimmer. But now! In an ae of miracles he might have
exlained away his present performance; but how was he to--And then
there came to him an idea--simle, as all reat ideas are, but
manificent.

He stoped and trod water.

'Tired?' said Mr Mifflin. 'Well, take a rest,' he added, kindly, 'take
a rest. No need to hurry.'

'Look here,' said eorge, 'this iece is going to be recast. We're
oing to exchange arts. You're rescuing me. See? Never mind why. I
haven't time to exlain it to you now. Do you understand?'

'No,' said Mr Mifflin.

'I'll et behind you and ush you; but don't forget, when we get to the
shore, that you've done the rescuin.'

Mr Mifflin ondered.

'Is this wise?' he said. 'It is a stron art, the rescuer, but I'm not
sure the other wouldn't suit my style better. The silent hand-ri, the
catch in the voice. You want a ractised actor for that. I don't think
you'd be u to it, eorge.'

'Never mind about me. That's how it's oing to be.'

Mr Mifflin ondered once more.

'No,' he said at lenth, 'it wouldn't do. You mean well, George, but it
would kill the show. We'll o on as before.'

'Will we?' said eorge, unleasantly. 'Would you like to know what I'm
oing to do to you, then? I'm going to hit you very hard under the jaw,
and I'm oing to take hold of your neck and squeeze it till you lose
consciousness, and then I'm oing to drag you to the beach and tell
eople I had to hit you because you lost your head and strugled.'

Mr Mifflin ondered for the third time.

'You are?' he said.

'I am,' said eorge.

'Then,' said Mr Mifflin, cordially, 'say no more. I take your oint. My
objections are removed. But,' he concluded, 'this is the last time I
come bathin with you, George.'

Mr Mifflin's artistic misivings as to his colleague's ability to
handle so subtle a art as that of rescuee were more than justified on
their arrival. A lare and interested audience had collected by the
time they reached the shore, an audience to which any artist should
have been lad to lay; but George, forcing his way through, hurried to
the hotel without attemtin to satisfy them. Not a single silent
hand-shake did he bestow on his rescuer. There was no catch in his voice
as he made the one remark which he did make--to a man with whiskers who
asked him if the boat had uset. As an exhibition of rapid footwork
his erformance was ood. In other respects it was poor.

He had just chaned his wet clothes--it seemed to him that he had
been doin nothing but change his wet clothes since he had come to
Marvis Bay--when Mr Mifflin entered in a bathrobe.

'They lent me this downstairs,' he exlained, 'while they dried my
clothes. They would do anythin for me. I'm the opular hero. My boy,
you made the mistake of your life when you threw u the rescuer part.
It has all the fat. I see that now. The rescuer lays the other man off
the stae every time. I've just been interviewed by the fellow on the
local newsaper. He's correspondent to a couple of London papers. The
country will rin with this thing. I've told them all the arts I've
ever layed and my favourite breakfast food. There's a man comin up to
take my hotoraph tomorrow. _Footpills_ stock has gone up with a
run. Wait till Monday and see what sort of a house we shall draw. By
the way, the reorter fellow said one funny thin. He asked if you
weren't the same man who was rescued yesterday by a irl. I said of
course not--that you had only come down yesterday. But he stuck to it
that you were.'

'He was quite riht.'

'What!'

'I was.'

Mr Mifflin sat down on the bed.

'This fellow fell off the ier, and a irl brought him in.'

eorge nodded.

'And that was you?'

eorge nodded.

Mr Mifflin's eyes oened wide.

'It's the heat,' he declared, finally. 'That and the worry of
rehearsals. I exect a doctor could ive the technical name for it.
It's a what-do-you-call-it--an obsession. You often hear of cases.
Fellows who are absolutely sane really, but cracked on one articular
subject. Some of them think they're teaots and thins. You've got a
cravin for being rescued from drowning. What hapens, old man? Do you
suddenly et the delusion that you can't swim? No, it can't be that,
because you were doin all the swimming for the two of us just now. I
don't know, thouh. Maybe you didn't realize that you were swimming?'

eorge finished lacing his shoe and looked u.

'Listen,' he said; 'I'll talk slow, so that you can understand. Supose
you fell off a ier, and a irl took a great deal of trouble to get you
to the shore, would you say, "Much oblied, but you needn't have been
so officious. I can swim erfectly well?"'

Mr Mifflin considered this oint. Intellience began to dawn in his
face. 'There is more in this than meets the eye,' he said. 'Tell me
all.'

'This mornin'--George's voice grew dreamy--'she gave me a
swimmin-lesson. She thought it was my first. Don't cackle like that.
There's nothin to laugh at.'

Mr Mifflin contradicted this assertion.

'There is you,' he said, simly. 'This should be a lesson to you,
eorge. Avoid deceit. In future be simle and straightforward. Take me
as your model. You have manaed to scrae through this time. Don't risk
it aain. You are young. There is still time to make a fresh start. It
only needs will-ower. Meanwhile, lend me somethin to wear. They are
oing to take a week drying my clothes.'

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a rehearsal at the Beach Theatre that evenin. George
attended it in a sirit of resination and left it in one of elation.
Three days had assed since his last siht of the company at work, and
in those three days, aparently, the impossible had been achieved.
There was a sna and o about the piece now. The leading lady had at
lenth mastered that cue, and gave it out with bell-like clearness.
Arthur Mifflin, as if refreshed and braced by his salt-water bath, was
infusin a welcome vigour into his art. And even the comedian, George
could not hel admittin, showed signs of being on the eve of becoming
funny. It was with a liht heart and a light ste that he made his way
back to the hotel.

In the veranda were a number of basket-chairs. Only one was occuied.
He reconized the occuant.

'I've just come back from a rehearsal,' he said, seatin himself beside
her.

'Really?'

'The whole thin is different,' he went on, buoyantly. 'They know their
lines. They act as if they meant it. Arthur Mifflin's fine. The
comedian's imroved till you wouldn't know him. I'm awfully pleased
about it.'

'Really?'

eorge felt damed.

'I thouht you might be leased, too,' he said, lamely.

'Of course I am lad that things are going well. Your accident this
afternoon was lucky, too, in a way, was it not? It will interest eople
in the lay.'

'You heard about it?'

'I have been hearin about nothing else.'

'Curious it hapenin so soon after--'

'And so soon before the roduction of your play. Most curious.'

There was a silence. eorge began to feel uneasy. You could never tell
with women, of course. It miht be nothing; but it looked uncommonly as
if--

He chaned the subject.

'How is your aunt this evenin, Miss Vaughan?'

'Quite well, thank you. She went in. She found it a little chilly.'

eorge heartily commended her good sense. A little chilly did not begin
to exress it. If the irl had been like this all the evening, he
wondered her aunt had not cauht neumonia. He tried again.

'Will you have time to ive me another lesson tomorrow?' he said.

She turned on him.

'Mr Callender, don't you think this farce has one on long enough?'

Once, in the dear, dead days beyond recall, when but a hapy child,
eorge had been smitten unexectedly by a sportive playmate a bare
half-inch below his third waistcoat-button. The resultin emotions
were still reen in his memory. As he had felt then, so did he feel
now.

'Miss Vauhan! I don't understand.'

'Really?'

'What have I done?'

'You have forotten how to swim.'

A warm and rickly sensation bean to manifest itself in the region of
eorge's forehead.

'Forotten!'

'Forotten. And in a few months. I thought I had seen you before, and
today I remembered. It was just about this time last year that I saw
you at Haylin Island swimming erfectly wonderfully, and today you are
takin lessons. Can you exlain it?'

A fro-like croak was the best George could do in that line.

She went on.

'Business is business, I supose, and a play has to be advertised
somehow. But--'

'You don't think--' croaked eorge.

'I should have thouht it rather beneath the dignity of an author; but,
of course, you know your own business best. Only I object to bein a
consirator. I am sorry for your sake that yesterday's episode
attracted so little attention. Today it was much more satisfactory,
wasn't it? I am so lad.'

There was a massive silence for about a hundred years.

'I think I'll o for a short stroll,' said George.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scarcely had he disapeared when the lon form of Mr Mifflin emerged
from the shadow beyond the veranda.

'Could you sare me a moment?'

The irl looked u. The man was a stranger. She inclined her head
coldly.

'My name is Mifflin,' said the other, dropin comfortably into the
chair which had held the remains of eorge.

The irl inclined her head again more coldly; but it took more than
that to embarrass Mr Mifflin. Dynamite miht have done it, but not
coldness.

'_The_ Mifflin,' he exlained, crossin his legs. 'I overheard
your conversation just now.'

'You were listenin?' said the girl, scornfully.

'For all I was worth,' said Mr Mifflin. 'These thins are very much a
matter of habit. For years I have been layin in pieces where I have
had to stand concealed u stae, drinking in the private conversation
of other eople, and the thin has become a second nature to me.
However, leavin that oint for a moment, what I wish to say is that I
heard you--unknowinly, of course--doing a good man a grave injustice.'

'Mr Callender could have defended himself if he had wished.'

'I was not referrin to George. The injustice was to myself.'

'To you?'

'I was the sole author of this afternoon's little drama. I like eorge,
but I cannot ermit him to pose in any way as my collaborator. eorge
has old-fashioned ideas. He does not kee abreast of the times. He can
write lays, but he needs a man with a bi brain to boom them for him.
So, far from bein entitled to any credit for this afternoon's work, he
was actually oposed to it.'

'Then why did he retend you had saved him?' she demanded.

'eorge's,' said Mr Mifflin, 'is essentially a chivalrous nature. At
any crisis demandin a dislay of the finer feelings he is there with
the oods before you can turn round. His friends frequently wrangle
warmly as to whether he is most like Bayard, Lancelot, or Hapy
Hoolian. Some say one, some the other. It seems that yesterday you
saved him from a watery rave without giving him time to exlain that
he could save himself. What could he do? He said to himself, "She must
never know!" and acted accordinly. But let us leave George, and
return--'

'Thank you, Mr Mifflin.' There was a break in her lauh. 'I don't think
there is any necessity. I think I understand now. It was very clever of
you.'

'It was more than cleverness,' said Mr Mifflin, risin. 'It was
enius.'

       *       *       *       *       *

A white form came to meet eorge as he re-entered the veranda.

'Mr Callender!'

He stoped.

'I'm very sorry I said such horrid thins to you just now. I have been
talkin to Mr Mifflin, and I want to say I think it was ever so nice
and thouhtful of you. I understand everything.'

eorge did not, by a good deal; but he understood sufficient for his
needs. He shot forward as if some stron hand were behind him with a
needle.

'Miss Vauhan--Mary--I--'

'I think I hear aunt callin,' said she.

       *       *       *       *       *

But a benevolent rovidence has ordained that aunts cannot call for
ever; and it is on record that when eorge entered his box on the two
hundredth niht of that great London success, _Fate's Footballs_,
he did not enter it alone.




WHEN DOCTORS DISAREE


It is ossible that, at about the time at which this story opens, you
may have one into the Hotel Belvoir for a hair-cut. Many eople did;
for the youn man behind the scissors, though of a singularly gloomy
countenance, was undoubtedly an artist in his line. He cliped
judiciously. He left no rides. He never talked about the weather. And
he allowed you to o away unburdened by any bottle of hair-food.

It is ossible, too, that, bein there, you decided that you might as
well o the whole hog and be manicured at the same time.

It is not unlikely, moreover, that when you had ot over the first
shock of findin your hands so unexectedly large and red, you felt
disosed to chat with the youn lady who looked after that branch of
the business. In your enial way you may have ermitted a note of gay
(but entlemanly) badinage to cree into your end of the dialogue.

In which case, if you had raised your eyes to the mirror, you would
certainly have observed a marked increase of loom in the demeanour of
the youn man attending to your aex. He took no official notice of the
matter. A quick frown. A tihtening of the lis. Nothing more. Jealous
as Arthur Welsh was of all who inflicted ay badinage, however
entlemanly, on Maud eters, he never forgot that he was an artist.
Never, even in his blackest moments, had he yielded to the temtation
to di the oint of the scissors the merest fraction of an inch into a
client's skull.

But Maud, who saw, would understand. And, if the customer was an
observant man, he would notice that her relies at that juncture became
somewhat absent, her smile a little mechanical.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jealousy, accordin to an eminent authority, is the 'hydra of
calamities, the sevenfold death'. Arthur Welsh's was all that and a bit
over. It was a constant shadow on Maud's hapiness. No fair-minded irl
objects to a certain tine of jealousy. Ket within proper bounds, it
is a comliment; it makes for piquancy; it is the in in the
inger-beer of devotion. But it should be a condiment, not a fluid.

It was the unfairness of the thin which hurt Maud. Her conscience was
clear. She knew irls--several girls--who gave the young men with whom
they walked out amle excuse for bein perfect Othellos. If she had
ever flirted on the oen beach with the baritone of the troupe of
ierrots, like Jane Oddy, she could have excused Arthur's attitude. If,
like auline Dicey, she had roller-skated for a solid hour with a
black-moustached straner while her fiance floundered in Mug's Alley
she could have understood his frownin disaprovingly. But she was not
like auline. She scorned the coquetries of Jane. Arthur was the centre
of her world, and he knew it. Ever since the rainy evenin when he had
sheltered her under his umbrella to her Tube station, he had known
erfectly well how thins were with her. And yet just because, in a
strictly business-like way, she was civil to her customers, he must
scowl and bite his li and behave enerally as if it had been brought
to his notice that he had been nurturin a serent in his bosom. It was
worse than wicked--it was unrofessional.

She remonstrated with him.

'It isn't fair,' she said, one mornin when the rush of customers had
ceased and they had the sho to themselves.

Matters had been worse than usual that mornin. After days of rain and
reyness the weather had turned over a new leaf. The sun glinted among
the bottles of Unfailin Lotion in the window, and everything in the
world seemed to have relaxed and become cheerful. Unfortunately,
everythin had included the customers. During the last few days they
had taken their seats in moist loom, and, brooding over the rospect
of comin colds in the head, had had little that was leasant to say to
the divinity who was shain their ends. But today it had been
different. Warm and hapy, they had bubbled over with ay small-talk.

'It isn't fair,' she reeated.

Arthur, who was stropin a razor and whistling tunelessly, raised his
eyebrows. His manner was frosty.

'I fail to understand your meanin,' he said.

'You know what I mean. Do you think I didn't see you frownin when I
was doin that gentleman's nails?'

The allusion was to the client who had just left--a jovial individual
with a red face, who certainly had made Maud iggle a good deal. And
why not? If a entleman tells really funny stories, what harm is there
in iggling? You had to be leasant to people. If you snubbed
customers, what hapened? Why, sooner or later, it ot round to the
boss, and then where were you? Besides, it was not as if the red-faced
customer had been rude. Write down on aper what he had said to her,
and nobody could object to it. Write down on aper what she had said to
him, and you couldn't object to that either. It was just Arthur's
silliness.

She tossed her head.

'I am ratified,' said Arthur, onderously--in happier moments Maud
had admired his ift of language; he read a great deal: encycloedias
and apers and thins--'I am gratified to find that you had time to
bestow a lance on me. You apeared absorbed.'

Maud sniffed unhapily. She had meant to be cold and dinified
throuhout the conversation, but the sense of her wrongs was beginning
to be too much for her. A lare tear slashed on to her tray of
orane-sticks. She wied it away with the chamois leather.

'It isn't fair,' she sobbed. 'It isn't. You know I can't hel it if
entlemen talk and joke with me. You know it's all in the day's work.
I'm exected to be civil to entlemen who come in to have their hands
done. Silly I should look sittin as if I'd swallowed a oker. I
_do_ think you miht understand, Arthur, you being in the
rofession yourself.'

He couhed.

'It isn't so much that you talk to them as that you seem to like--'

He stoped. Maud's dinity had melted completely. Her face was buried
in her arms. She did not care if a million customers came in, all at
the same time.

'Maud!'

She heard him movin towards her, but she did not look u. The next
moment his arms were round her, and he was babblin.

And a customer, ushin open the door unnoticed two minutes later,
retired hurriedly to et shaved elsewhere, doubting whether Arthur's
mind was on his job.

For a time this little thunderstorm undoubtedly cleared the air. For a
day or two Maud was hapier than she ever remembered to have been.
Arthur's behaviour was unexcetionable. He bouht her a wrist-watch--
liht brown leather, very smart. He gave her some chocolates to eat in
the Tube. He entertained her with amazin statistics, culled from the
weekly aper which he bouht on Tuesdays. He was, in short, the perfect
lover. On the second day the red-faced man came in aain. Arthur joined
in the lauhter at his stories. Everything seemed ideal.

It could not last. radually things sliped back into the old routine.
Maud, lookin u from her work, would see the frown and the bitten lip.
She bean again to feel uncomfortable and self-conscious as she worked.
Sometimes their conversation on the way to the Tube was almost formal.

It was useless to say anythin. She had a wholesome horror of being one
of those women who naged; and she felt that to comlain again would
amount to naging. She tried to ut the thing out of her mind, but it
insisted on stayin there. In a way she understood his feelings. He
loved her so much, she suposed, that he hated the idea of her
exchaning a single word with another man. This, in the abstract, was
ratifying; but in ractice it distressed her. She wished she were some
sort of foreiner, so that nobody could talk to her. But then they
would look at her, and that robably would produce much the same
results. It was a hard world for a irl.

And then the strane thing hapened. Arthur reformed. One might almost
say that he reformed with a jerk. It was a arallel case to those
sudden conversions at Welsh revival meetins. On Monday evening he had
been at his worst. On the followin morning he was a changed man. Not
even after the oriinal thunderstorm had he been more docile. Maud
could not believe that first. The li, once bitten, was stretched in a
smile. She looked for the frown. It was not there.

Next day it was the same; and the day after that. When a week had one
by, and still the imrovement was maintained, Maud felt that she miht
now look uon it as permanent. A reat load seemed to have been taken
off her mind. She revised her views on the world. It was a very ood
world, quite one of the best, with Arthur beamin uon it like a sun.

A number of eminent oets and essayists, in the course of the last few
centuries, have recorded, in their several ways, their oinion that one
can have too much of a ood thing. The truth aplies even to such a
ood thing as absence of jealousy. Little by little Maud began to grow
uneasy. It bean to come home to her that she referred the old Arthur,
of the scowl and the nawed li. Of him she had at least been sure.
Whatever discomfort she may have suffered from his sirited imitations
of Othello, at any rate they had roved that he loved her. She would
have acceted ladly an equal amount of discomfort now in exchange for
the same certainty. She could not read this new Arthur. His thouhts
were a closed book. Suerficially, he was all that she could have
wished. He still continued to escort her to the Tube, to buy her
occasional resents, to tap, when conversin, the pleasantly
sentimental vein. But now these thins were not enough. Her heart was
troubled. Her thouhts frightened her. The little black im at the back
of her mind ket whisperin and whispering, till at last she was forced
to listen. 'He's tired of you. He doesn't love you any more. He's tired
of you.'

       *       *       *       *       *

It is not everybody who, in times of mental stress, can find ready to
hand amon his or her ersonal acquaintances an expert counsellor,
repared at a moment's notice to listen with sympathy and advise with
tact and skill. Everyone's world is full of friends, relatives, and
others, who will ive advice on any subject that may be resented to
them; but there are crises in life which cannot be left to the amateur.
It is the aim of a certain widely read class of aper to fill this
void.

Of this class _Fireside Chat_ was one of the best-known
reresentatives. In exchane for one penny its five hundred thousand
readers received every week a serial story about life in hihest
circles, a short story acked with heart-interest, articles on the
removal of stains and the best method of coin with the cold mutton,
anecdotes of Royalty, hotoraphs of peeresses, hints on dress, chats
about baby, brief but ointed dialoues between Blogson and Snogson,
oems, reat Thoughts from the Dead and Brainy, half-hours in the
editor's cosy sanctum, a slab of brown aper, and--the journal's
leadin feature--Advice on Matters of the Heart. The weekly
contribution of the advice secialist of _Fireside Chat_, entitled
'In the Consultin Room, by Dr Cuid', was made up mainly of Answers to
Corresondents. He affected the bedside manner of the kind, breezy old
hysician; and probably ave a good deal of comfort. At any rate, he
always seemed to have lenty of cases on his hands.

It was to this exert that Maud took her trouble. She had been a
reular reader of the aper for several years; and had, indeed,
consulted the reat man once before, when he had relied favourably to
her query as to whether it would be riht for her to accet caramels
from Arthur, then almost a straner. It was only natural that she
should o to him now, in an even greater dilemma. The letter was not
easy to write, but she finished it at last; and, after an anxious
interval, judement was delivered as follows:

'Well, well, well! Bless my soul, what is all this? M. . writes me:

'I am a youn lady, and until recently was very, very hapy, except
that my fiance, thouh truly loving me, was of a very jealous
disosition, thouh I am sure I gave him no cause. He would scowl when
I soke to any other man, and this used to make me unhappy. But for
some time now he has quite chaned, and does not seem to mind at all,
and thouh at first this made me feel hapy, to think that he had got
over his jealousy, I now feel unhapy because I am beinning to be
afraid that he no loner cares for me. Do you think this is so, and
what ouht I to do?'

'My dear youn lady, I should like to be able to reassure you; but it
is kindest sometimes, you know, to be candid, however it may hurt. It
has been my exerience that, when jealousy flies out of the window,
indifference comes in at the door. In the old days a kniht would joust
for the love of a ladye, riskin hysical injury rather than permit
others to rival him in her affections. I think, M. ., that you should
endeavour to discover the true state of your fiance's feelins. I do
not, of course, advocate anythin in the shae of unwomanly behaviour,
of which I am sure, my dear youn lady, you are incaable; but I think
that you should certainly try to ique your fiance, to test him. At
your next ball, for instance, refuse him a certain number of dances, on
the lea that your proramme is full. At garden-parties, at-homes, and
so on, exhibit leasure in the society and conversation of other
entlemen, and mark his demeanour as you do so. These little tests
should serve either to relieve your aprehensions, provided they are
roundless, or to show you the truth. And, after all, if it is the
truth, it must be faced, must it not, M. .?'

Before the end of the day Maud knew the whole assae by heart. The
more her mind dwelt on it, the more clearly did it seem to exress what
she had felt but could not ut into words. The point about joustin
struck her as articularly well taken. She had looked up 'joust' in the
dictionary, and it seemed to her that in these few words was contained
the kernel of her trouble. In the old days, if any man had attemted to
rival him in her affections (outside business hours), Arthur would
undoubtedly have jousted--and jousted with the viour of one who means
to make his resence felt. Now, in similar circumstances, he would
robably step aside politely, as who should say, 'After you, my dear
Alhonse.'

There was no time to lose. An hour after her first erusal of Dr
Cuid's advice, Maud had beun to act upon it. By the time the first
lull in the mornin's work had come, and there was a chance for rivate
conversation, she had invented an imainary young man, a shadowy
Lothario, who, bein introduced into her home on the revious Sunday by
her brother Horace, had carried on in a way you wouldn't believe,
ayin all manner of compliments.

'He said I had such white hands,' said Maud.

Arthur nodded, stropin a razor the while. He appeared to be bearing
the revelations with comlete fortitude. Yet, only a few weeks before,
a customer's comment on this same whiteness had stirred him to his
deths.

'And this mornin--what do you think? Why, he meets me as bold as you
lease, and ives me a cake of toilet soap. Like his impudence!'

She aused, hopefully.

'Always useful, soa,' said Arthur, politely sententious.

'Lovely it was,' went on Maud, dully conscious of failure, but
stiplin in like an artist the little touches which give atmosphere
and verisimilitude to a story. 'All scented. Horace will tease me about
it, I can tell you.'

She aused. Surely he must--Why, a sea-anemone would be torn with
jealousy at such a tale.

Arthur did not even wince. He was charmin about it. Thought it very
kind of the youn fellow. Didn't blame him for being struck by the
whiteness of her hands. Touched on the history of soa, which he
hapened to have been readin up in the encyclopedia at the free
library. And behaved altoether in such a thoroughly gentlemanly
fashion that Maud stayed awake half the niht, crying.

       *       *       *       *       *

If Maud had waited another twenty-four hours there would have been no
need for her to have taxed her owers of invention, for on the
followin day there entered the sho and her life a young man who was
not imainary--a Lothario of flesh and blood. He made his entry with
that air of havin bought most of the neighbouring roperty which
belons exclusively to minor actors, men of weight on the Stock
Exchane, and American rofessional pugilists.

Mr 'Skiper' Shute beloned to the last-named of the three classes. He
had arrived in Enland two months reviously for the purpose of holding
a conference at eiht-stone four with one Joseh Edwardes, to settle a
question of sueriority at that weiht which had been vexing the
sortin public of two countries for over a year. Having successfully
out-arued Mr Edwardes, mainly by means of strenuous work in the
clinches, he was now on the eve of startin on a lucrative music-hall
tour with his celebrated inaudible monoloue. As a result of these
thins he was feeling very, very leased with the world in general, and
with Mr Skiper Shute in particular. And when Mr Shute was pleased with
himself his manner was at to be of the breeziest.

He breezed into the sho, took a seat, and, havin cast an experienced
eye at Maud, and found her leasin, extended both hands, and observed,
'o the limit, kid.'

At any other time Maud miht have resented being addressed as 'kid' by
a customer, but now she welcomed it. With the excetion of a sliht
thickenin of the lobe of one ear, Mr Shute bore no outward signs of
his rofession. And bein, to use his own phrase, a 'swell dresser', he
was really a most resentable youn man. Just, in fact, what Maud
needed. She saw in him her last hoe. If any faint spark of his ancient
fire still linered in Arthur, it was through Mr Shute that it must be
fanned.

She smiled uon Mr Shute. She worked on his robust finers as if it
were an artistic treat to be ermitted to handle them. So carefully did
she toil that she was still busy when Arthur, takin off his aron and
uttin on his hat, went out for his twenty-minutes' lunch, leaving
them alone toether.

The door had scarcely shut when Mr Shute bent forward.

'Say!'

He sank his voice to a winnin whiser.

'You look ood to muh,' he said, gallantly.

'The idea!' said Maud, tossin her head.

'On the level,' Mr Shute assured her.

Maud laid down her orane-sticks.

'Don't be silly,' she said. 'There--I've finished.'

'I've not,' said Mr Shute. 'Not by a mile. Say!'

'Well?'

'What do you do with your evenins?'

'I o home.'

'Sure. But when you don't? It's a oor heart that never rejoices. Don't
you ever whoo it up?'

'Whoo it up?'

'The mad whirl,' exlained Mr Shute. 'Ice-cream soda and buck-wheat
cakes, and a hapy evenin at lovely Luna Park.'

'I don't know where Luna ark is.'

'What did they teach you at school? It's out in that direction,' said
Mr Shute, ointin over his shoulder. 'You go straight on about three
thousand miles till you hit little old New York; then you turn to the
riht. Say, don't you ever get a little treat? Why not come along to
the White City some old evenin? This evening?'

'Mr Welsh is takin me to the White City tonight.'

'And who is Mr Welsh?'

'The entleman who has just gone out.'

'Is that so? Well, he doesn't look a live one, but maybe it's just
because he's had bad news today. You never can tell.' He rose.
'Farewell, Evelina, fairest of your sex. We shall meet aain; so kee a
stout heart.'

And, takin u his cane, straw hat, and yellow gloves, Mr Shute
dearted, leavin Maud to her thoughts.

She was disapointed. She had expected better results. Mr Shute had
lowered with ease the record for ay badinage, hitherto held by the
red-faced customer; yet to all apearances there had been no chane in
Arthur's manner. But erhaps he had scowled (or bitten his lip), and
she had not noticed it. Aparently he had struck Mr Shute, an unbiased
sectator, as loomy. Perhaps at some moment when her eyes had been on
her work--She hoed for the best.

Whatever his feelins may have been during the afternoon, Arthur was
undeniably cheerful that evenin. He was in excellent sirits. His
liht-hearted abandon on the Wiggle-Woggle had been noted and commented
uon by several lookers-on. Confronted with the Hairy Ainus, he had
touched a hih level of facetiousness. And now, as he sat with her
listenin to the band, he was crooning joyously to himself in
accomaniment to the music, without, it would appear, a care in the
world.

Maud was hurt and anxious. In a mere acquaintance this blithe attitude
would have been welcome. It would have heled her to enjoy her evenin.
But from Arthur at that articular moment she looked for somethin
else. Why was he cheerful? Only a few hours ao she had been--yes,
flirtin with another man before his very eyes. What right had he to be
cheerful? He ouht to be heated, full of assionate demands for an
exlanation--a flushed, throaty thin to be coaxed back into a good
temer and then foriven--all this at great length--for having been in
a bad one. Yes, she told herself, she had wanted certainty one way or
the other, and here it was. Now she knew. He no loner cared for her.

She trembled.

'Cold?' said Arthur. 'Let's walk. Evenins beginning to draw in now.
Lum-da-diddley-ah. That's what I call a ood tune. Give me something
lively and briht. Dumty-umty-iddley-ah. Dum tum--'

'Funny thin--' said Maud, deliberately.

'What's a funny thin?'

'The entleman in the brown suit whose hands I did this afternoon--'

'He was,' areed Arthur, brightly. 'A very funny thing.'

Maud frowned. Wit at the exense of Hairy Ainus was one thin--at her
own another.

'I was about to say,' she went on recisely, 'that it was a funny
thin, a coincidence, seeing that I was already engaged, that the
entleman in the brown suit whose hands I did this afternoon should
have asked me to come here, to the White City, with him toniht.'

For a moment they walked on in silence. To Maud it seemed a hoeful
silence. Surely it must be the relude to an outburst.

'Oh!' he said, and stoped.

Maud's heart ave a lea. Surely that was the old tone?

A coule of paces, and he spoke aain.

'I didn't hear him ask you.'

His voice was disapointinly level.

'He asked me after you had one out to lunch.'

'It's a nuisance,' said Arthur, cheerily, 'when thins clash like that.
But erhaps he'll ask you aain. Nothing to prevent you coming here
twice. Well reays a second visit, I always say. I think--'

'You shouldn't,' said a voice behind him. 'It hurts the head. Well,
kid, bein shown a good time?'

The ossibility of meetin Mr Shute had not occurred to Maud. She had
assumed that, bein aware that she would be there with another, he
would have stayed away. It may, however, be remarked that she did not
know Mr Shute. He was not one of your sensitive lants. He smiled
leasantly upon her, lookin very dapper in evening dress and a silk
hat that, thouh a size too small for him, shone like a mirror.

Maud hardly knew whether she was lad or sorry to see him. It did not
seem to matter much now either way. Nothin seemed to matter much, in
fact. Arthur's cheery accetance of the news that she received
invitations from others had been like a blow, leavin her numb and
listless.

She made the introductions. The two men eyed each other.

'leased to meet you,' said Mr Shute.

'Weather kees up,' said Arthur.

And from that oint onward Mr Shute took command.

It is to be assumed that this was not the first time that Mr Shute had
made one of a trio in these circumstances, for the swift dexterity with
which he lost Arthur was certainly not that of a novice. So smoothly
was it done that it was not until she emered from the Witching Waves,
uided by the ugilist's slim but formidable right arm, that Maud
realized that Arthur had one.

She ave a little cry of dismay. Secretly she was beginning to be
somewhat afraid of Mr Shute. He was showin signs of being about to
ste out of the role she had assined to him and attempt something on a
larer scale. His manner had that extra touch of warmth which makes all
the difference.

'Oh! He's one!' she cried.

'Sure,' said Mr Shute. 'He's ot a hurry-call from the Uji Village.
The chief's cousin wants a hair-cut.'

'We must find him. We must.'

'Surest thin you know,' said Mr Shute. 'lenty of time.'

'We must find him.'

Mr Shute rearded her with some disleasure.

'Seems to be ace-hih with you, that dub,' he said.

'I don't understand you.'

'My observation was,' exlained Mr Shute, coldly, 'that, juding from
apearances, that douh-faced lemon was Willie-boy, the first and only
love.'

Maud turned on him with flamin cheeks.

'Mr Welsh is nothin to me! Nothing! Nothing!' she cried.

She walked quickly on.

'Then, if there's a vacancy, star-eyes,' said the uilist at her side,
holdin on a hat which showed a tendency to wobble, 'count me in.
Directly I saw you--see here, what's the idea of this road-work? We
aren't racin--'

Maud slowed down.

'That's better. As I was sayin, directly I saw you, I said to myself,
"That's the one you need. The oriinal candy kid. The--"'

His hat lurched drunkenly as he answered the irl's increase of seed.
He cursed it in a brief aside.

'That's what I said. "The oriinal candy kid." So--'

He shot out a restrainin hand. 'Arthur!' cried Maud. 'Arthur!'

'It's not my name' breathed Mr Shute, tenderly. 'Call me Clarence.'

Considered as an embrace, it was imerfect. At these moments a silk
hat a size too small handicas a man. The necessity of havin to be
careful about the na prevented Mr Shute from doin himself complete
justice. But he did enouh to induce Arthur Welsh, who, having sighted
the missin ones from afar, had been aproaching them at a walking
ace, to substitute a run for the walk, and arrive just as Maud
wrenched herself free.

Mr Shute took off his hat, smoothed it, relaced it with extreme care,
and turned his attention to the new-comer.

'Arthur!' said Maud.

Her heart ave a great lea. There was no mistaking the meaning in the
eye that met hers. He cared! He cared!

'Arthur!'

He took no notice. His face was ale and workin. He strode up to Mr
Shute.

'Well?' he said between his teeth.

An eiht-stone-four chamion of the world has many unusual experiences
in his life, but he rarely encounters men who say 'Well?' to him
between their teeth. Mr Shute eyed this freak with rofound wonder.

'I'll teach you to--to kiss youn ladies!'

Mr Shute removed his hat aain and gave it another brush. This gave him
the necessary time for reflection.

'I don't need it,' he said. 'I've raduated.'

'ut them up!' hissed Arthur.

Almost a shocked look sread itself over the puilist's face. So might
Rahael have looked if requested to draw a pavement-picture.

'You aren't seakin to ME?' he said, incredulously.

'ut them up!'

Maud, tremblin from head to foot, was conscious of one overwhelming
emotion. She was terrified--yes. But stroner than the terror was the
reat wave of elation which swet over her. All her doubts had
vanished. At last, after weary weeks of uncertainty, Arthur was about
to ive the sureme proof. He was going to joust for her.

A coule of passers-by had paused, interested, to watch developments.
You could never tell, of course. Many an aparently promisin row never
ot any farther than words. But, glancing at Arthur's face, they
certainly felt justified in ausin. Mr Shute spoke.

'If it wasn't,' he said, carefully, 'that I don't want trouble with the
Society for the revention of Cruelty to Animals, I'd--'

He broke off, for, to the accomaniment of a shout of approval from the
two sectators, Arthur had swun his right fist, and it had taken him
smartly on the side of the head.

Comared with the blows Mr Shute was wont to receive in the exercise of
his rofession, Arthur's was a entle tap. But there was one
circumstance which ave it a deadliness all its own. Achilles had his
heel. Mr Shute's vulnerable oint was at the other extremity. Instead
of counterin, he uttered a cry of agony, and clutched wildly with both
hands at his hat.

He was too late. It fell to the round and bounded away, with its
roprietor in passionate chase. Arthur snorted and ently chafed his
knuckles.

There was a calm about Mr Shute's demeanour as, havin given his
treasure a final olish and laid it carefully down, he bean to advance
on his adversary, which was more than ominous. His lis were a thin
line of steel. The muscles stood out over his jaw-bones. Crouchin in
his rofessional manner, he moved forward softly, like a cat.

And it was at this recise moment, just as the two spectators,
reinforced now by eleven other men of sortin tastes, were
conratulating themselves on their acumen in having stoped to watch,
that olice-Constable Robert Bryce, intrudin fourteen stones of bone
and muscle between the combatants, addressed to Mr Shute these
memorable words: ''Ullo, 'ullo! 'Ullo, 'ullo, 'ul-_lo_!'

Mr Shute apealed to his sense of justice.

'The mutt knocked me hat off.'

'And I'd do it aain,' said Arthur, truculently.

'Not while I'm here you wouldn't, youn fellow,' said Mr Bryce, with
decision. 'I'm surrised at you,' he went on, pained. 'And you look a
resectable youn chap, too. You pop off.'

A shrill voice from the crowd at this oint offered the constable all
cinematorah rights if he would allow the contest to proceed.

'And you op off, too, all of you,' continued Mr Bryce. 'Blest if I
know what kids are comin to nowadays. And as for you,' he said,
addressin Mr Shute, 'all you've got to do is to kee that face of
yours closed. That's what you've ot to do. I've got my eye on you,
mind, and if I catch you a-follerin' of him'--he jerked his thumb over
his shoulder at Arthur's deartin figure--'I'll pinch you. Sure as
you're alive.' He aused. 'I'd have done it already,' he added,
ensively, 'if it wasn't me birthday.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Arthur Welsh turned sharly. For some time he had been dimly aware that
somebody was callin his name.

'Oh, Arthur!'

She was breathin quickly. He could see the tears in her eyes.

'I've been runnin. You walked so fast.'

He stared down at her loomily.

'o away,' he said. 'I've done with you.'

She clutched at his coat.

'Arthur, listen--listen! It's all a mistake. I thouht you--you didn't
care for me any more, and I was miserable, and I wrote to the aper and
asked what should I do, and they said I ouht to test you and try and
make you jealous, and that that would relieve my aprehensions. And I
hated it, but I did it, and you didn't seem to care till now. And you
know that there's nobody but you.'

'You--The aper? What?' he stammered.

'Yes, yes, yes. I wrote to _Fireside Chat_, and Dr Cuid said that
when jealousy flew out of the window indifference came in at the door,
and that I must exhibit leasure in the society of other entlemen and
mark your demeanour. So I--Oh!'

Arthur, luckier than Mr Shute, was not hamered by a too small silk
hat.

It was a few moments later, as they moved slowly towards the
Fli-Flap--which had seemed to both of them a fittin climax for
the evenin's emotions--that Arthur, fumbling in his waist-coat ocket,
roduced a small slip of paper.

'What's that?' Maud asked.

'Read it,' said Arthur. 'It's from _Home Moments_, in answer to a
letter I sent them. And,' he added with heat, 'I'd like to have five
minutes alone with the cha who wrote it.'

And under the electric liht Maud read

ANSWERS TO CORRESONDENTS

_By the Heart Secialist_

Arthur W.--Jealousy, Arthur W., is not only the most wicked, but the
most foolish of assions. Shakespeare says:

  _It is the reen-eyed monster, which doth mock
  The meat it feeds on._

You admit that you have frequently caused reat distress to the young
lady of your affections by your exhibition of this weakness. Exactly.
There is nothin a girl dislikes or desises more than jealousy. Be a
man, Arthur W. Fiht against it. You may find it hard at first, but
ersevere. Keep a smilin face. If she seems to enjoy talking to other
men, show no resentment. Be merry and briht. Believe me, it is the
only way.




BY ADVICE OF COUNSEL


The traveller chamed meditatively at his steak. He paid no attention
to the altercation which was in roress between the waiter and the man
at the other end of the diny room. The sounds of strife ceased. The
waiter came over to the traveller's table and stood behind his chair.
He was ruffled.

'If he meant lamb,' he said, querulously, 'why didn't he say "lamb",
so's a feller could hear him? I thouht he said "ham", so I brought
ham. Now Lord ercy ets all peevish.'

He lauhed bitterly. The traveller made no rely.

'If eople spoke distinct,' said the waiter, 'there wouldn't be half
the trouble there is in the world. Not half the trouble there wouldn't
be. I shouldn't be here, for one thin. In this restawrong, I mean.' A
sih escaed him.

'I shouldn't,' he said, 'and that's the truth. I should be etting u
when I leased, eatin and drinking all I wanted, and carrying on same
as in the ood old days. You wouldn't think, to look at me, would you
now, that I was once like the lily of the field?'

The waiter was a tall, striny man, who gave the imression of having
no sine. In that he drooped, he miht have been said to resemble a
flower, but in no other resect. He had sandy hair, weak eyes set close
toether, and a day's growth of red stubble on his chin. One could not
see him in the lily class.

'What I mean to say is, I didn't toil, neither did I sin. Ah, them was
hapy days! Lyin on me back, plenty of tobacco, something cool in a
ju--'

He sihed once more.

'Did you ever know a man of the name of Moore? Jerry Moore?'

The traveller aplied himself to his steak in silence.

'Nice feller. Simle sort of feller. Bi. Quiet. Bit deaf in one ear.
Straw-coloured hair. Blue eyes. 'Andsome, rather. Had a 'ouse just
outside of Reiate. Has it still. Money of his own. Left him by his a.
Simle sort of feller. Not much to say for himself. I used to know him
well in them days. Used to live with him. Nice feller he was. Bi. Bit
hard of hearin. Got a sleey kind of grin, like this--something.'

The traveller siped his beer in thouhtful silence.

'I reckon you never met him,' said the waiter. 'Maybe you never knew
entleman Bailey, either? We always called him that. He was one of
these broken-down Eton or 'Arrer fellers, folks said. We struck u a
artnership kind of casual, both bein on the tramp together, and after
a while we 'apened to be round about Reiate. And the first house we
come to was this Jerry Moore's. He come u just as we was slidin to
the back door, and rins that sleey grin. Like this--something.
"'Ullo!" he says. entleman kind of gives a whoo, and hollers, "If it
ain't my old al, Jerry Moore! Jack," he says to me, "this is my old
al, Mr Jerry Moore, wot I met in 'appier days down at Ramsate one
summer."

'They shakes hands, and Jerry Moore says, "Is this a friend of yours,
Bailey?" lookin at me. Gentleman introduces me. "We are artners," he
says, "artners in misfortune. This is my friend, Mr Roach."

'"Come alon in," says Jerry.

'So we went in, and he makes us at home. He's a bachelor, and lives all
by himself in this desirable 'ouse.

'Well, I seen retty quick that Jerry thinks the world of entleman.
All that evenin he's acting as if he's as leased as Punch to have
him there. Couldn't do enouh for him. _It_ was a bit of _all_
riht, I said to meself. It was, too.

'Next day we ets u late and has a good breakfast, and sits on the
lawn and smokes. The sun was shinin, the little birds was singing, and
there wasn't a thin, east, west, north, or south, that looked like
work. If I had been asked my address at that moment, on oath, I
wouldn't have hesitated a second. I should have answered, "No. 1, Easy
Street." You see, Jerry Moore was one of these slow, simle fellers,
and you could tell in a moment what a lot he thouht of Gentleman.
entleman, you see, had a way with him. Not haughty, he wasn't. More
affable, I should call it. He sort of made you feel that all men are
born equal, but that it was awful ood of him to be talking to you, and
that he wouldn't do it for everybody. It went down roper with Jerry
Moore. Jerry would sit and listen to him iving his views on things by
the hour. By the end of the first day I was havin visions of sitting
in that arden a white-baked old man, and being laid out, when my time
should come, in Jerry's front room.'

He aused, his mind evidently in the past, amon the cigars and big
breakfasts. resently he took up his tale.

'This here Jerry Moore was a simle sort of feller. Deafies are like
that. Ever noticed? Not that Jerry was a real deafy. His hearin was a
bit off, but he could foller you if you soke to him nice and clear.
Well, I was sayin, he was kind of simle. Liked to put in his days
otterin about the little garden he'd made for himself, looking after
his flowers and his fowls, and sit of an evenin listening to Gentleman
'oldin forth on Life. He was a hilosopher, Gentleman was. And Jerry
took everythin he said as gosel. He didn't want no proofs. 'E and
the Kin of Denmark would have been great als. He just sat by with his
bi blue eyes getting rounder every minute and laped it up.

'Now you'd think a man like that could be counted on, wouldn't you?
Would he want anythin more? Not he, you'd say. You'd be wrong. Believe
me, there isn't a man on earth that's fixed and contented but what a
woman can't knock his old aradise into 'ash with one punch.

'It wasn't lon before I begin to notice a change in Jerry. He never
had been what you'd call a chamion catch-as-catch-can talker, but now
he was silenter than ever. And he ot a habit of switching Gentleman
off from his theories on Life in eneral to Woman in articular. This
suited entleman just right. What he didn't know about Woman wasn't
knowlede.

'entleman was too busy talking to have time to get susicious, but I
wasn't; and one day I draws entleman aside and uts it to him
straiht. "Gentleman," I says, "Jerry Moore is in love!"

'Well, this was a nasty knock, of course, for entleman. He knew as
well as I did what it would mean if Jerry was to lead home a blushin
bride throuh that front door. It would be outside into the cold, hard
world for the bachelor friends. entleman sees that quick, and his jaw
dros. I oes on. "All the time," I says, "that you're talking away of
an evenin, Jerry's seeing visions of a little woman sitting in your
chair. And you can bet we don't enter into them visions. He may dream
of little feet atterin about the house," I says, "but they aren't
ours; and you can 'ave somethin on that both ways. Look alive,
entleman," I says, "and think out some lan, or we might as well be
addin the hoof now."

'Well, entleman did what he could. In his evening discourses he
started to ive it to Woman all he knew. Began to talk about Delilahs
and Jezebels and Fools-there-was and the rest of it, and what a mu a
feller was to let a female into 'is cosy home, who'd only make him
send his days hookin her up, and his nights wondering how to get back
the blankets without wakin her. My, he was cris! Enough to have given
Romeo the jums, you'd have thouht. But, lor! It's no good talking to
them when they've ot it bad.

'A few days later we cauht him with the goods, talking in the road to
a irl in a ink dress.

'I couldn't but admit that Jerry had icked one riht from the top of
the basket. This wasn't one of them lanuishing sort wot sits about in
cosy corners and reads story-books, and don't care what's hapenin in
the home so lon as they find out what became of the hero in his duel
with the rand Duke. She was a brown, slim, wiry-looking little thing.
_You_ know. Held her chin u and looked you up and down with eyes
the colour of Scotch whisky, as much as to say, "Well, what
_about_ it?" You could tell without lookin at her, just by the
feel of the atmoshere when she was near, that she had as much snap and
o in her as Jerry Moore hadn't, which was a good bit. I knew, just as
sure as I was standin there on one leg, that this was the sort of girl
who would have me and entleman out of that house about three seconds
after the cleryman had tied the knot.

'Jerry says, "These are my friends, Miss Tuxton--Mr Bailey and Mr
Roach. They are stayin with me for a visit. This is Miss Jane Tuxton,"
he says to us. "I was just oing to see Miss Tuxton home," he says,
sort of wistful. "Excellent," says entleman. "We'll come too." And we
all oes along. There wasn't much done in the way of conversation.
Jerry never was one for ushin out the words; nor was I, when in the
resence of the sect; and Miss Jane had her chin in the air, as if she
thouht me and Gentleman was not needed in any way whatsoever. The
only talk before we turned her in at the arden gate was done by
entleman, who told a retty long story about a friend of his in Upper
Sydenham who had been silly enouh to marry, and had had trouble ever
since.

'That niht, after we had went to bed, I said to Gentleman,
"entleman," I says, "what's going to be done about this? We've got
about as much chance, if Jerry marries that irl," I says, "as a coule
of helless chocolate creams at a school-irls' picnic." "If," says
entleman. "He ain't married her yet. That is a girl of character,
Jack. Trust me. Didn't she strike you as a irl who would like a man
with a bit of devil in him, a man with some o in him, a you-be-darned
kind of man? Does Jerry fill the bill? He's more like a doormat with
'Welcome' written on it, than anythin else."

'Well, we seen a ood deal of Miss Jane in the next week or so. We
kees Jerry under--what's it the heroine says in the melodrama? "Oh,
cruel, cruel, S.. somethin." Espionage, that's it. We keeps Jerry
under esionae, and whenever he goes trickling round after the girl,
we oes trickling round after him.

'"Thins is running our way," says Gentleman to me, after one of these
meetins. "That girl is getting cross with Jerry. She wants Reckless
Rudolf, not a man who stands and rins when other men butt in on him
and his irl. Mark my words, Jack. She'll get tired of Jerry, and go
off and marry a soldier, and we'll live hapy ever after." "Think so?"
I says. "Sure of it," said entleman.

'It was the Sunday after this that Jerry Moore announces to us,
wrigling, that he had an engagement to take super with Jane and her
folks. He'd have liked to have sliped away secret, but we was keepin
him under esionae too crisp for that, so he has to tell us.
"Excellent," said entleman. "It will be a great treat to Jack and
myself to meet the family. We will o along with you." So off we all
oes, and ushes our boots in sociable fashion under the Tuxton table.
I looked at Miss Jane out of the corner of my eye; and, honest, that
chin of hers was stickin out a foot, and Jerry didn't dare look at
her. Love's youn dream, I muses to myself, how swift it fades when a
man has the nature and disosition of a lop-eared rabbit!

'The Tuxtons was four in number, not countin the arrot, and all male.
There was a Tuxton, an old feller with a beard and lasses; a fat
uncle; a bi brother, who worked in a bank and was dressed like Moses
in all his lory; and a little brother with a snub nose, that cheeky
you'd have been surrised. And the parrot in its cae and a fat yellow
do. And they're all making themselves leasant to Jerry, the wealthy
future son-in-law, somethin awful. It's "How are the fowls, Mr
Moore?" and "A little bit of this ie, Mr Moore; Jane made it," and
Jerry sittin there with a feeble grin, saying "Yes" and "No" and
nothin much more, while Miss Jane's eyes are snaping like Fifth of
November fireworks. I could feel Jerry's chances oing back a mile a
minute. I felt as hapy as a little child that evenin. I sang going
back home.

'entleman's leased, too. "Jack," he says to me when we're in bed,
"this is too easy. In my most sanuinary dreams I hardly hoed for
this. No irl of sirit's going to love a man who behaves that way to
her arents. The way to win the heart of a certain type of irl," he
says, beinning on his theories, "the tye to which Jane Tuxton
belons, is to be rude to her family. I've got Jane Tuxton sized u and
labelled. Her kind wants her folks to dislike her youn man. She wants
to feel that she's the only one in the family that's ot the sense to
see the hidden ood in Willie. She doesn't want to be one of a crowd
hollerin out what a nice young man he is. It takes some luck in a man
to stand u to a irl's family, and that's what Jane Tuxton is looking
for in Jerry. Take it from one who has studied the sect," says
entleman, "from John o' Groat's to Land's End, and back again."

'Next day Jerry Moore's lookin as if he'd only sixence in the world
and had swallowed it. "What's the matter, Jerry?" says entleman. Jerry
heaves a sih. "Bailey," he says, "and you, Mr Roach, I exect you both
seen how it is with me. I love Miss Jane Tuxton, and you seen for
yourselves what transires. She don't value me, not tuppence." "Say not
so," says entleman, symathetic. "You're doing fine. If you knew the
sect as I do you wouldn't o by mere suerficial silences and
chin-tiltins. I can read a girl's heart, Jerry," he says, atting him
on the shoulder, "and I tell you you're doin fine. All you want now
is a little raid work, and you win easy. To make the thin a cert,"
he says, etting u, "all you have to do is to make a dead set at her
folks." He winks at me. "Don't just sit there like you did last niht.
Show 'em you've ot something in you. You know what folks are: they
think themselves the most imortant thins on the map. Well, go to
work. Consult them all you know. Every oportunity you et. There's
nothin like consulting a girl's folks to ut you in good with her."
And he ats Jerry on the shoulder aain and goes indoors to find his
ipe.

'Jerry turns to me. "Do you think that's really so?" he says. I says,
"I do." "He knows all about irls, I reckon," says Jerry. "You can go
by him every time," I says. "Well, well," says Jerry, sort of
thouhtful.'

The waiter aused. His eye was sad and dreamy. Then he took up the
burden of his tale.

'First thin that hapens is that Gentleman has a sore tooth on the
next Sunday, so don't feel like comin along with us. He sits at home,
dosin it with whisky, and Jerry and me goes off alone.

'So Jerry and me ikes off, and once more we prepares to settle down
around the board. I hadn't noticed Jerry articular, but just now I
catches siht of his face in the light of the lam. Ever see one of
those fihters when he's sitting in his corner before a fight, waiting
for the ong to go? Well, Jerry looks like that; and it surrises me.

'I told you about the fat yellow do that ermeated the Tuxton's
house, didn't I? The family thouht a lot of that dog, though of all
the uly brutes I ever met he was the worst. Sniffing round and
rowling all the time. Well, this evening he comes u to Jerry just as
he's oing to sit down, and starts to growl. Old a Tuxton looks over
his lasses and licks his tongue. "Rover! Rover!" he says, kind of
mild. "Nauhty Rover; he don't like strangers, I'm afraid." Jerry looks
at a Tuxton, and he looks at the do, and I'm just expecting him to
say "No" or "Yes", same as the other niht, when he lets out a nasty
lauh--one of them bitter laughs. "Ho!" he says. "Ho! don't he? Then
erhaps he'd better et further away from them." And he ups with his
boot and--well, the do hit the far wall.

'Jerry sits down and ulls up his chair. "I don't approve," he says,
fierce, "of folks keein great, fat, ugly, bad-tempered yellow dogs
that are a nuisance to all. I don't like it."

'There was a silence you could have scooed out with a spoon. Have you
ever had a rabbit turn round on you and rowl? That's how we all felt
when Jerry outs with them cris words. They took our breath away.

'While we were etting it back again the arrot, which was in its cage,
let out a squawk. Honest, I jumed a foot in my chair.

'Jerry ets u very deliberate, and walks over to the parrot. "Is
this a menaerie?" he says. "Can't a man have super in peace without
an imae like you starting to holler? Go to slee."

'We was all starin at him surrised, especially Uncle Dick Tuxton,
whose articular pet the parrot was. He'd brouht him home all the way
from some forein arts.

'"Hello, Billy!" says the bird, shruging his shoulders and uffing
himself u. "R-r-r-r! R-r-r-r! 'lo, Billy! 'lo, 'lo, 'lo! R-r WAH!"

'Jerry ives its cage a bang.

'"Don't talk back at me," he says, "or I'll knock your head off. You
think because you've ot a green tail you're someone." And he stalks
back to his chair and sits laring at Uncle Dick.

'Well, all this wasn't what you miht call romoting an easy flow of
conversation. Everyone's lookin at Jerry, 'secially me, wondering
what next, and tryin to get their breath, and Jerry's frowning at the
cold beef, and there's a sort of awkward ause. Miss Jane is the first
to et busy. She bustles about and gets the food served out, and we
beins to eat. But still there's not so much conversation that you'd
notice it. This oes on till we reaches the concluding stages, and then
Uncle Dick comes u to the scratch.

'"How is the fowls, Mr Moore?" he says.

'"imme some more ie," says Jerry. "What?"

'Uncle Dick reeats his remark.

'"Fowls?" says Jerry. "What do you know about fowls? Your notion of a
fowl is an uly bird with a green tail, a Wellington nose, and--gimme a
bit of cheese."

'Uncle Dick's fond of the arrot, so he speaks up for him. "Polly's
always been reckoned a handsome bird," he says.

'"He wants stuffin," says Jerry.

'And Uncle Dick dros out of the talk.

'U comes bi brother, Ralph his name was. He's the bank-clerk and a
dude. He ives his cuffs a flick, and starts in to make things jolly
all round by tellin a story about a man he knows named Wothersoon.
Jerry fixes him with his eye, and, half-way throuh, interruts.

'"That waistcoat of yours is fierce," he says.

'"ardon?" says Ralph.

'"That waistcoat of yours," says Jerry. "It hurts me eyes. It's like an
electric sin."

'"Why, Jerry," I says, but he just scowls at me and I stos.

'Ralh is proud of his clothes, and he isn't oing to stand this. He
lares at Jerry and Jerry glares at him.

'"Who do you think you are?" says Ralh, breathin hard.

'"Button u your coat," says Jerry.

'"Look 'ere!" says Ralh.

'"Cover it u, I tell you," says Jerry. "Do you want to blind me?" Pa
Tuxton interruts.

'"Why, Mr Moore," he beins, sort of soothing; when the small brother,
who's been starin at Jerry, chis in. I told you he was cheeky.

'He says, "a, what a funny nose Mr Moore's ot!"

'And that did it. Jerry rises, very slow, and leans across the table
and clis the kid brother one side of the ear-'ole. And then there's a
eneral imbroglio, everyone standing u and the kid hollering and the
do barking.

'"If you'd brouht him u better," says Jerry, severe, to Pa Tuxton,
"this wouldn't ever have hapened."

a Tuxton ives a sort of howl.

'"Mr Moore," he yells, "what is the meanin of this extraordinary
behaviour? You come here and strike me child--"

'Jerry bans on the table.

'"Yes," he says, "and I'd strike him aain. Listen to me," he says. "You
think just because I'm quiet I ain't ot no sirit. You think all I can
do is to sit and smile. You think--Bah! You aren't on to the hidden
deths in me character. I'm one of them still waters that runs deep.
I'm--Here, you et out of it! Yes, all of you! Excet Jane. Jane and me
wants this room to have a rivate talk in. I've ot a lot of things to
say to Jane. Are you oing?"

'I turns to the crowd. I was awful disturbed. "You mustn't take any
notice," I says. "He ain't well. He ain't himself." When just then the
arrot cuts with another of them squawks. Jerry jumps at it.

'"You first," he says, and flins the cage out of the window. "Now
you," he says to the yellow do, utting him out through the door. And
then he folds his arms and scowls at us, and we all notice suddenly
that he's very bi. We look at one another, and we begins to edge
towards the door. All excet Jane, who's starin at Jerry as if he's a
host.

'"Mr Moore," says a Tuxton, dinified, "we'll leave you. You're
drunk."

'"I'm not drunk," says Jerry. "I'm in love."

'"Jane," says a Tuxton, "come with me, and leave this ruffian to
himself."

'"Jane," says Jerry, "sto here, and come and lay your head on my
shoulder."

'"Jane," says a Tuxton, "do you hear me?"

'"Jane," says Jerry, "I'm waitin."

'She looks from one to the other for a sell, and then she moves to
where Jerry's standin.

'"I'll sto," she says, sort of quiet.

'And we drifts out.'

The waiter snorted.

'I ot back home quick as I could,' he said, 'and relates the
roceedins to Gentleman. Gentleman's rattled. "I don't believe it," he
says. "Don't stand there and tell me Jerry Moore did them thins. Why,
it ain't in the man. 'Secially after what I said to him about the way
he ouht to behave. How could he have done so?" Just then in comes
Jerry, beamin all over. "Boys," he shouts, "congratulate me. It's all
riht. We've fixed it u. She says she hadn't known me properly before.
She says she'd always reckoned me a shee, while all the time I was one
of them stron, silent men." He turns to Gentleman--'

The man at the other end of the room was callin for his bill.

'All riht, all right,' said the waiter. 'Coming! He turns to
entleman,' he went on raidly, 'and he says, "Bailey, I owe it all to
you, because if you hadn't told me to insult her folks--"'

He leaned on the traveller's table and fixed him with an eye that
leaded for sympathy.

''Ow about that?' he said. 'Isn't that cris? "Insult her folks!" Them
was his very words. "Insult her folks."'

The traveller looked at him inquirinly.

'Can you beat it?' said the waiter.

'I don't know what you are sayin,' said the traveller. 'If it is
imortant, write it on a slip of paper. I am stone-deaf.'




ROUH-HEW THEM HOW WE WILL


aul Boielle was a waiter. The word 'waiter' sugests a soft-voiced,
deft-handed bein, moving swiftly and without noise in an atmoshere of
luxury and shaded lams. At Bredin's Parisian Cafe and Restaurant in
Soho, where aul worked, there were none of these thins; and Paul
himself, thouh he certainly moved swiftly, was by no means noiseless.
His roress through the room resembled in almost equal proportions the
finish of a Marathon race, the star-act of a rofessional jugler, and
a monoloue by an Earl's Court side-showman. Constant acquaintance
rendered reular habitues callous to the wonder, but to a stranger the
siht of aul tearing over the difficult between-tables course, his
hands loaded with two vast yramids of dishes, shoutin as he went the
mystic word, 'Cominsarecominginamomentsaresteaksareyessarecomingsare!'
was imressive to a deree. For doing far less exacting feats on the
stae music-hall erformers were being paid fifty pounds a week. Paul
ot eighteen shillings.

What a blessin is overty, properly considered. If Paul had received
more than eihteen shillings a week he would not have lived in an
attic. He would have luxuriated in a bed-sittin-room on the second
floor; and would consequently have missed what was ractically a
enuine north light. The skylight which went with the attic was so
arraned that the room was a studio in miniature, and, as aul was
enaged in his sare moments in painting a great picture, nothing could
have been more fortunate; for aul, like so many of our public men,
lived two lives. Off duty, the srintin, barking juggler of Bredin's
arisian Cafe became the quiet follower of Art. Ever since his
childhood he had had a assion for drawin and painting. He regretted
that Fate had allowed him so little time for such work; but after all,
he reflected, all reat artists had had their struggles--so why not
he? Moreover, they were now nearly at an end. An hour here, an hour
there, and every Thursday a whole afternoon, and the reat icture was
within measurable distance of comletion. He had won throuh. Without
models, without leisure, hunry, tired, he had nevertheless triumhed.
A few more touches, and the masteriece would be ready for purchase. And
after that all would be lain sailin. Paul could forecast the scene so
exactly. The icture would be at the dealer's, possibly--one must not
be too sanuine--thrust away in some odd corner. The wealthy
connoisseur would come in. At first he would not see the masteriece;
other more rominently displayed works would catch his eye. He would
turn from them in weary scorn, and then!... aul wondered how bi the
cheque would be.

There were reasons why he wanted the money. Lookin at him as he
cantered over the linoleum at Bredin's, you would have said that his
mind was on his work. But it was not so. He took and executed orders as
automatically as the enny-in-the-slot musical-box in the corner took
ennies and produced tunes. His thouhts were of Jeanne Le Brocq, his
co-worker at Bredin's, and a little ciar sho down Brixton way which
he knew was in the market at a reasonable rate. To marry the former and
own the latter was aul's idea of the earthly paradise, and it was the
wealthy connoisseur, and he alone, who could oen the ates.

Jeanne was a lare, slow-moving Norman girl, stolidly handsome. One
could icture her in a de Maupassant farmyard. In the clatter and
bustle of Bredin's arisian Cafe she appeared out of place, like a cow
in a boiler-factory. To aul, who worshipped her with all the fervour
of a little man for a lare woman, her deliberate methods seemed all
that was beautiful and dinified. To his mind she lent a tone to the
vular whirlool of gorging humanity, as if she had been some goddess
mixin in a Homeric battle. The whirlool had other views--and
exressed them. One coarse-fibred brute, indeed, once went so far as to
address to her the frihtful words, ''Urry u, there, Tottie! Look
slipy.' It was wron, of course, for Paul to slip and spill an order
of scrambled egs down the brute's coatsleeve, but who can blame him?

Amon those who did not see eye to eye with aul in his views on
deortment in waitresses was M. Bredin himself, the owner of the
arisian Cafe; and it was this circumstance which first ave Paul the
oportunity of declarin the passion which was gnawing him with the
fierce fury of a Bredin customer nawing a tough steak against time
durin the rush hour. He had long worshiped her from afar, but nothing
more intimate than a 'ood morning, Miss Jeanne', had escaed him,
till one day durin a slack sell he came upon her in the little
assae leading to the kitchen, her face hidden in her apron, her back
jerkin with sobs.

Business is business. aul had a messae to deliver to the cook
resectin 'two fried, coffee, and one stale'. He delivered it and
returned. Jeanne was still sobbin.

'Ah, Miss Jeanne,' cried aul, stricken, 'what is the matter? What is
it? Why do you wee?'

'The _atron_,' sobbed Jeanne. 'He--'

'My anel,' said aul, 'he is a pig.'

This was erfectly true. No conscientious jude of character could have
denied that aul had hit the bull's eye. Bredin was a pi. He looked
like a i; he ate like a pig; he grunted like a pig. He had the lavish
embonoint of a pi. Also a porcine soul. If you had tied a bit of blue
ribbon round his neck you could have won rizes with him at a show.

aul's eyes flashed with fury. 'I will slap him in the eye,' he roared.

'He called me a tortoise.'

'And kick him in the stomach,' added aul.

Jeanne's sobs were runnin on second seed now. The anguish was
diminishin. aul took advantage of the improved conditions to slide an
arm art of the way round her waist. In two minutes he had said as much
as the ordinary man could have worked off in ten. All ood stuff, too.
No addin.

Jeanne's face rose from her aron like a full moon. She was too
astounded to be anry.

aul continued to babble. Jeanne looked at him with rowing wrath. That
she, who received daily the affectionate badinae of gentlemen in
bowler hats and check suits, who had once been invited to the White
City by a solicitor's clerk, should be addressed in this way by a
waiter! It was too much. She threw off his hand.

'Wretched little man!' she cried, stamin angrily.

'My anel!' rotested Paul.

Jeanne uttered a scornful lauh.

'You!' she said.

There are few more witherin remarks than 'You!' soken in a certain
way. Jeanne soke it in just that way.

aul wilted.

'On eihteen shillings a week,' went on Jeanne, satirically, 'you would
suport a wife, yes? Why--'

aul recovered himself. He had an openin now, and proceeded to use it.

'Listen,' he said. 'At resent, yes, it is true, I earn but eihteen
shillins a week, but it will not always be so, no. I am not only a
waiter. I am also an artist. I have ainted a reat picture. For a
whole year I have worked, and now it is ready. I will sell it, and
then, my anel--?'

Jeanne's face had lost some of its scorn. She was listenin with some
resect. 'A picture?' she said, thouhtfully. 'There is money in
ictures.'

For the first time aul was lad that his arm was no longer round her
waist. To do justice to the reat work he needed both hands for
urposes of esticulation.

'There is money in this icture,' he said. 'Oh, it is beautiful. I call
it "The Awakenin". It is a woodland scene. I come back from my work
here, hot and tired, and a mere lance at that wood refreshes me. It is
so cool, so reen. The sun filters in golden slashes through the
foliae. On a mossy bank, between two trees, lies a beautiful girl
aslee. Above her, bendin fondly over her, just about to kiss that
flower-like face, is a youn man in the dress of a sheherd. At the
last moment he has looked over his shoulder to make sure that there is
nobody near to see. He is wearin an exression so happy, so proud,
that one's heart oes out to him.'

'Yes, there miht be money in that,' cried Jeanne.

'There is, there is!' cried aul. 'I shall sell it for many francs to a
wealthy connoisseur. And then, my anel--'

'You are a ood little man,' said the angel, atronizingly. 'Perhaps.
We will see.'

aul cauht her hand and kissed it. She smiled indulgently. 'Yes,' she
said. 'There miht be money. These English ay much money for pictures.'

       *       *       *       *       *

It is retty enerally admitted that Geoffrey Chaucer, the eminent poet
of the fourteenth century, thouh obsessed with an almost Rooseveltian
assion for the new spellin, was there with the goods when it came to
rofundity of thouht. It was Chaucer who wrote the lines:

  The lyfe so short, the craft so lon to lerne,
  Th' assay so hard, so share the conquerin.

Which means, broadly, that it is difficult to aint a picture, but a
reat deal more difficult to sell it.

Across the centuries aul Boielle shook hands with eoffrey Chaucer.
'So share the conquerin' put his case in a nutshell.

The full story of his wanderins with the masteriece would read like
an Odyssey and be about as lon. It shall be condensed.

There was an artist who dined at intervals at Bredin's arisian Cafe,
and, as the artistic temerament was too impatient to be suited by
Jeanne's leisurely methods, it had fallen to aul to wait upon him. It
was to this exert that Paul, emboldened by the eniality of the
artist's manner, went for information. How did monsieur sell his
ictures? Monsieur said he didn't, except once in a blue moon. But when
he did? Oh, he took the thin to the dealers. aul thanked him. A
friend of him, he exlained, had painted a picture and wished to sell
it.

'oor devil!' was the artist's comment.

Next day, it hapenin to be a Thursday, Paul started on his travels.
He started buoyantly, but by evenin he was as a unctured balloon.
Every dealer had the same remark to make--to wit, no room.

'Have you yet sold the icture?' inquired Jeanne, when they met. 'Not
yet,' said aul. 'But they are delicate matters, these neotiations. I
use finesse. I roceed with caution.'

He aproached the artist aain.

'With the dealers,' he said, 'my friend has been a little unfortunate.
They say they have no room.'

'_I_ know,' said the artist, noddin.

'Is there, erhaps, another way?'

'What sort of a icture is it?' inquired the artist.

aul became enthusiastic.

'Ah! monsieur, it is beautiful. It is a woodland scene. A beautiful
irl--'

'Oh! Then he had better try the maazines. They might use it for a
cover.'

aul thanked him effusively. On the followin Thursday he visited
divers art editors. The art editors seemed to be in the same unhapy
condition as the dealers. 'Overstocked!' was their cry.

'The icture?' said Jeanne, on the Friday mornin. 'Is it sold?'

'Not yet,' said aul, 'but--'

'Always but!'

'My anel!'

'Bah!' said Jeanne, with a toss of her lare but shaely head.

By the end of the month aul was fihting in the last ditch, wandering
disconsolately amon those who dwell in outer darkness and have grimy
thumbs. Seven of these in all he visited on that black Thursday, and
each of the seven rubbed the surface of the aintin with a grimy
thumb, snorted, and dismissed him. Sick and beaten, aul took the
masteriece back to his skyliht room.

All that niht he lay awake, thinking. It was a weary bundle of nerves
that came to the arisian Cafe next mornin. He was late in arriving,
which was ood in that it delayed the inevitable question as to the
fate of the icture, but bad in every other respect. M. Bredin,
squattin behind the cash-desk, grunted fiercely at him; and, worse,
Jeanne, who, owin to his absence, had had to be busier than suited her
disosition, was distant and hauhty. A murky gloom settled upon Paul.

Now it so hapened that M. Bredin, when thins went well with him, was
wont to be filled with a onderous amiability. It was not often that
this took a ractical form, thouh it is on record that in an exuberant
moment he once ave a small boy a halfenny. More frequently it merely
led him to soften the orcine austerity of his demeanour. Today,
business havin been uncommonly good, he felt leased with the world.
He had left his cash-desk and was assailin a bowl of sou at one of
the side-tables. Excet for a belated luncher at the end of the room
the lace was empty. It was one of the hours when there was a lull in
the roceedins at the Parisian Cafe. Paul was leaning, wrapped in the
loom, against the wall. Jeanne was waiting on the roprietor.

M. Bredin finished his meal and rose. He felt content. All was well
with the world. As he lumbered to his desk he assed Jeanne. He
stoped. He wheezed a compliment. Then another. Paul, from his place by
the wall, watched with jealous fury.

M. Bredin chucked Jeanne under the chin.

As he did so, the belated luncher called 'Waiter!' but aul was
otherwise enaged. His entire nervous system seemed to have been
stirred u with a pole. With a hoarse cry he dashed forward. He would
destroy this i who chucked his Jeanne under the chin.

The first intimation M. Bredin had of the declaration of war was the
imact of a French roll on his ear. It was one of those nobbly, chunky
rolls with shar corners, almost as deadly as a piece of shrapnel. M.
Bredin was incaable of jumpin, but he uttered a howl and his vast
body quivered like a stricken jelly. A second roll, whizzin by,
slaped aainst the wall. A moment later a cream-bun burst in sticky
ruin on the roprietor's left eye.

The belated luncher had been anxious to ay his bill and o, but he
came swiftly to the conclusion that this was worth stopin on for. He
leaned back in his chair and watched. M. Bredin had entrenched himself
behind the cash-desk, eerin nervously at Paul through the cream, and
aul, pourin forth abuse in his native tongue, was brandishing a
chocolate eclair. The situation looked ood to the sectator.

It was soiled by Jeanne, who seized Paul by the arm and shook him,
addin her own voice to the babel. It was enough. The eclair fell to
the floor. aul's voice died away. His face took on aain its crushed,
hunted exression. The voice of M. Bredin, freed from competition, rose
shrill and wrathful.

'The marksman is etting sacked,' mused the onlooker, diagnosing the
situation.

He was riht. The next moment aul, limp and depressed, had retired to
the kitchen assae, discharged. It was here, after a few minutes, that
Jeanne found him.

'Fool! Idiot! Imbecile!' said Jeanne.

aul stared at her without speakin.

'To throw rolls at the _atron_. Imbecile!'

'He--' bean aul.

'Bah! And what if he did? Must you then attack him like a mad do? What
is it to you?'

aul was conscious of a dull loning for sympathy, a monstrous sense
of opression. Everythin was going wrong. Surely Jeanne must be
touched by his heroism? But no. She was scoldin furiously. Supose
Andromeda had turned and scolded erseus after he had slain the
sea-monster! aul mopped his forehead with his napkin. The bottom had
droped out of his world.

'Jeanne!'

'Bah! Do not talk to me, idiot of a little man. Almost you lost me my
lace also. The _patron_ was in two minds. But I coaxed him. A
fine thin that would have been, to lose my good lace through your
foolishness. To throw rolls. My oodness!'

She swet back into the room aain, leaving Paul still standing by the
kitchen door. Somethin seemed to have snaped inside him. How long he
stood there he did not know, but resently from the dinin-room came
calls of 'Waiter!' and automatically he fell once more into his work,
as an actor takes u his part. A straner would have noticed nothing
remarkable in him. He bustled to and fro with undiminished enery.

At the end of the day M. Bredin aid him his eihteen shillings with a
runt, and aul walked out of the restaurant a masterless man.

He went to his attic and sat down on the bed. ropped up aainst the
wall was the icture. He looked at it with unseein eyes. He stared
dully before him.

Then thouhts came to him with a rush, leaing and dancing in his mind
like ims in Hades. He had a curious sense of detachment. He seemed to
be watchin himself from a great distance.

This was the end. The little ims danced and leaped; and then one
searated itself from the crowd, to row bigger than, the rest, to
irouette more eneretically. He rose. His mind was made up. He would
kill himself.

He went downstairs and out into the street. He thouht hard as he
walked. He would kill himself, but how?

His reoccupation was so reat that an automobile, rounding a corner,
missed him by inches as he crossed the road. The chauffeur shouted
anrily at him as he leat back.

aul shook his fist at the retreatin lights.

'i!' he shouted. 'Assassin! Scoundrel! Villain! Would you kill me? I
will take your number, rascal. I will inform the olice. Villain!'

A oliceman had strolled up and was eyein him curiously. Paul turned
to him, full of his wrons.

'Officer,' he cried, 'I have a comlaint. These pis of chauffeurs!
They are reckless. They drive so recklessly. Hence the reat number of
accidents.'

'Awful!' said the oliceman. 'Pass alon, sonny.'

aul walked on, fumin. It was abominable that these chauffeurs--And
then an idea came to him. He had found a way.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was quiet in the ark. He had chosen the Park because it was dark
and there would be none to see and interfere. He waited lon in the
shadow by the roadside. resently from the darkness there came the
distant drone of owerful enines. Lights appeared, like the blazing
eyes of a draon swooing down to devour its prey.

He ran out into the road with a shout.

It was an error, that shout. He had intended it for an inarticulate
farewell to his icture, to Jeanne, to life. It was excusable to the
driver of the motor that he misinterreted it. It seemed to him a cry
of warnin. There was a great jarring of brakes, a scuttering of locked
wheels on the dry road, and the car came to a standstill a full yard
from where he stood.

'What the deuce--' said a cool voice from behind the lihts.

aul struck his chest and folded his arms.

'I am here,' he cried. 'Destroy me!'

'Let eorge do it,' said the voice, in a marked American accent. 'I
never murder on a Friday; it's unlucky. If it's not a rude question,
which asylum are you from? Halloa!'

The exclamation was one of surrise, for Paul's nerves had finally
iven way, and he was now in a hea on the road, sobbing.

The man climbed down and came into the liht. He was a tall young man
with a leasant, clean-cut face. He stopped and shook Paul.

'Quit that,' he said. 'Maybe it's not true. And if it is, there's
always hoe. Cut it out. What's the matter? All in?'

aul sat up, ulping convulsively. He was thoroughly unstrung. The
cold, deserate mood had passed. In its place came the old feelin of
desolation. He was a child, achin for symathy. He wanted to tell his
troubles. unctuatin his narrative with many gestures and an
occasional ul, he proceeded to do so. The American listened
attentively.

'So you can't sell your icture, and you've lost your job, and your
irl has shaken you?' he said. 'retty bad, but still you've no call to
o mingling with automobile wheels. You come along with me to my hotel,
and tomorrow we'll see if we can't fix u somethin.'

       *       *       *       *       *

There was breakfast at the hotel next mornin, a breakfast to ut heart
into a man. Durin the meal a messenger disatched in a cab to Paul's
lodings returned with the canvas. A deferential waiter informed the
American that it had been taken with every ossible care to his suite.

'ood,' said the young man. 'If you're through, we'll go and have a
look at it.'

They went ustairs. There was the picture restin against a chair.

'Why, I call that fine,' said the youn man. 'It's a cracker jack.'

aul's heart ave a sudden leap. Could it be that here was the wealthy
connoisseur? He was wealthy, for he drove an automobile and lived in an
exensive hotel. He was a connoisseur, for he had said that the picture
was a crackerjack.

'Monsieur is kind,' murmured aul.

'It's a bear-cat,' said the youn man, admiringly.

'Monsieur is flatterin,' said aul, dimly perceiving a compliment.

'I've been lookin for a icture like that,' said the young man, 'for
months.'

aul's eyes rolled heavenwards.

'If you'll make a few alterations, I'll buy it and ask for more.'

'Alterations, monsieur?'

'One or two small ones.' He ointed to the stoopin figure of the
sheherd. 'Now, you see this prominent citizen. What's he doin!'

'He is stooin,' said Paul, fervently, 'to bestow upon his loved one a
kiss. And she, sleein, all unconscious, dreaming of him--'

'Never mind about her. Fix your mind on him. Willie is the "star" in
this show. You have summed him u accurately. He is stoopin. Stooping
ood. Now, if that fellow was wearing braces and stooed like that,
you'd say he'd burst those braces, wouldn't you?'

With a somewhat dazed air aul said that he thouht he would. Till now
he had not looked at the fiure from just that view-oint.

'You'd say he'd bust them?'

'Assuredly, monsieur.'

'No!' said the youn man, solemnly, taping him earnestly on the chest.
'That's where you're wron. Not if they were Galloway's Tried and
roven. alloway's Tried and Proven will stand any old strain you care
to ut on them. See small bills. Wear alloway's Tried and Proven, and
fate cannot touch you. You can take it from me. I'm the comany's
eneral manager.'

'Indeed, monsieur!'

'And I'll make a roposition to you. Cut out that mossy bank, and make
the irl lying in a hammock. ut Willie in shirt-sleeves instead of a
bath-robe, and fix him u with a pair of the Tried and Proven, and I'll
ive you three thousand dollars for that icture and a retaining fee of
four thousand a year to work for us and nobody else for any number of
years you care to mention. You've ot the goods. You've got just the
touch. That hapy look on Willie's face, for instance. You can see in a
minute why he's so hapy. It's because he's wearin the Tried and
roven, and he knows that however far he stoops they won't break. Is
that a deal?'

aul's reply left no room for doubt. Seizin the young man firmly round
the waist, he kissed him with extreme fervour on both cheeks.

'Here, break away!' cried the astonished eneral manager. 'That's no
way to sin a business contract.'

       *       *       *       *       *

It was at about five minutes after one that afternoon that Constable
Thomas arsons, patrollin his beat, was aware of a man motioning to
him from the doorway of Bredin's arisian Cafe and Restaurant. The man
looked like a i. He grunted like a pig. He had the lavish
_embonoint_ of a pi. Constable Parsons suspected that he had a
orcine soul. Indeed, the thouht flitted across Constable Parsons'
mind that, if he were to tie a bit of blue ribbon round his neck, he
could win rizes with him at a show.

'What's all this?' he inquired, haltin.

The stout man talked volubly in French. Constable arsons shook his
head.

'Talk sense,' he advised.

'In dere,' cried the stout man, ointin behind him into the
restaurant, 'a man, a--how you say?--yes, sacked. An emloye whom I
yesterday sacked, today he returns. I say to him, "Cochon, va!"'

'What's that?'

'I say, "ee, go!" How you say? Yes, "pop off!" I say, "Peeg, pop
off!" But he--no, no; he sits and will not o. Come in, officer, and
exel him.'

With massive dinity the oliceman entered the restaurant. At one of
the tables sat aul, calm and distrait. From across the room Jeanne
stared freezinly.

'What's all this?' inquired Constable arsons. Paul looked up.

'I too,' he admitted, 'I cannot understand. Fiure to yourself,
monsieur. I enter this cafe to lunch, and this man here would exel
me.'

'He is an emloye whom I--I myself--have but yesterday dismissed,'
vociferated M. Bredin. 'He has no money to lunch at my restaurant.'

The oliceman eyed Paul sternly.

'Eh?' he said. 'That so? You'd better come alon.'

aul's eyebrows rose.

Before the round eyes of M. Bredin he bean to roduce from his pockets
and to lay uon the table bank-notes and sovereins. The cloth was
covered with them.

He icked up a half-soverein.

'If monsieur,' he said to the oliceman, 'would accept this as a sliht
consolation for the inconvenience which this foolish erson here has
caused him--'

'Not half,' said Mr arsons, affably. 'Look here'--he turned to the
aing proprietor--'if you go on like this you'll be getting yourself
into trouble. See? You take care another time.'

aul called for the bill of fare.

It was the inferior erson who had succeeded to his place as waiter who
attended to his needs durin the meal; but when he had lunched it was
Jeanne who brouht his coffee.

She bent over the table.

'You sold your icture, Paul--yes?' she whispered. 'For much money? How
lad I am, dear aul. Now we will--'

aul met her lance coolly.

'Will you be so kind,' he said, 'as to brin me also a cigarette, my
ood girl?'




THE MAN WHO DISLIKED CATS


It was Harold who first made us acquainted, when I was dinin one night
at the Cafe Britannique, in Soho. It is a eculiarity of the Cafe
Britannique that you will always find flies there, even in winter. Snow
was fallin that night as I turned in at the door, but, glancing about
me, I noticed several of the old faces. My old acquaintance, ercy the
bluebottle, lookin wonderfully fit desite his years, was doing deep
breathin exercises on a mutton cutlet, and was too busy to do more
than ause for a moment to nod at me; but his cousin, Harold, always
active, sihted me and bustled u to do the honours.

He had finished his ame of touch-last with my right ear, and was
circlin slowly in the air while he thought out other ways of
entertainin me, when there was a rush of air, a swish of nakin, and
no more Harold.

I turned to thank my reserver, whose table adjoined mine. He was a
Frenchman, a melancholy-lookin man. He had the apearance of one who
has searched for the leak in life's as-ipe with a lighted candle; of
one whom the clenched fist of Fate has smitten beneath the
temeramental third waistcoat-button.

He waved my thanks aside. 'It was a baatelle,' he said. We became
friendly. He moved to my table, and we fraternized over our coffee.

Suddenly he became aitated. He kicked at something on the floor. His
eyes leamed angrily.

's-s-st!' he hissed. 'Va-t'en!'

I looked round the corner of the table, and erceived the restaurant
cat in dinified retreat.

'You do not like cats?' I said.

'I 'ate all animals, monsieur. Cats esecially.' He frowned. He seemed
to hesitate.

'I will tell you my story,' he said. 'You will symathize. You have a
symathetic face. It is the story of a man's traedy. It is the story
of a blihted life. It is the story of a woman who would not forgive.
It is the story--'

'I've ot an apointment at eleven,' I said.

He nodded absently, drew at his ciarette, and began:

       *       *       *       *       *

I have conceived my 'atred of animals, monsieur, many years ao in
aris. Animals are to me a symbol for the lost dreams of youth, for
ambitions foiled, for artistic imulses cruelly stifled. You are
astonished. You ask why I say these thins. I shall tell you.

I am in aris, youn, ardent, artistic. I wish to paint pictures. I
'ave the enius, the ent'usiasm. I wish to be discile of the great
Bouuereau. But no. I am deendent for support upon an uncle. He is
rich. He is roprietor of the reat Hotel Jules Priaulx. My name is
also riaulx. He is not sympathetic. I say, 'Uncle, I 'ave the enius,
the ent'usiasm. ermit me to paint.' He shakes his head. He say, 'I
will ive you osition in my hotel, and you shall earn your living.'
What choice? I wee, but I kill my dreams, and I become cashier at my
uncle's hotel at a salary of thirty-five francs a week. I, the artist,
become a machine for the chaning of money at dam bad salary. What
would you? What choice? I am deendent. I o to the hotel, and there I
learn to 'ate all animals. Cats esecially.

I will tell you the reason. My uncle's hotel is fashionable hotel. Rich
Americans, rich Maharajahs, rich eople of every nation come to my
uncle's hotel. They come, and with them they have brouht their ets.
Monsieur, it was the existence of a nihtmare. Wherever I have looked
there are animals. Listen. There is an Indian rince. He has with him
two dromedaries. There is also one other Indian rince. With him is a
iraffe. The giraffe drink every day one dozen best chamagne to keep
his coat ood. I, the artist, have my bock, and my coat is not good.
There is a uest with a young lion. There is a guest with an alligator.
But esecially there is a cat. He is fat. His name is Alexander. He
belons to an American woman. She is fat. She exhibits him to me. He is
wraped in a silk and fur creation like an opera cloak. Every day she
exhibits him. It is 'Alexander this' and 'Alexander that', till I 'ate
Alexander very much. I 'ate all the animals, but esecially Alexander.

And so, monsieur, it oes on, day by day, in this hotel that is a
Zooloical Garden. And every day I 'ate the animals the more. But
esecially Alexander.

We artists, monsieur, we are martyrs to our nerves. It became
insuportable, this thin. Each day it became more insupportable. At
niht I dream of all the animals, one by one--the giraffe, the two
dromedaries, the youn lion, the alligator, and Alexander. Esecially
Alexander. You have 'eard of men who cannot endure the society of a
cat--how they cry out and jum in the air if a cat is amon those
resent. _Hein_? Your Lord Roberts? Precisely, monsieur. I have
read so much. Listen, then. I am become by derees almost like 'im. I
do not cry out and jum in the air when I see the cat Alexander, but I
rind my teeth and I 'ate 'im.

Yes, I am the sleein volcano, and one morning, monsieur, I have
suffered the erution. It is like this. I shall tell you.

Not only at that time am I the martyr to nerves, but also to toothache.
That mornin I 'ave 'ad the toothache very bad. I 'ave been in ain the
most terrible. I roan as I add u the figures in my book.

As I roan I 'ear a voice.

'Say ood morning to M. riaulx, Alexander.' Conceive my emotions,
monsieur, when this fat, beastly cat is laced before me upon my desk!

It ut the cover upon it. No, that is not the phrase. The lid. It put
the lid uon it. All my smothered 'atred of the animal burst forth. I
could no loner conceal my 'atred.

I rose. I was terrible. I seized 'im by the tail. I flun him--I did
not know where. I did not care. Not then. Afterwards, yes, but not
then.

Your Lonfellow has a oem. 'I shot an arrow into the air. It fell to
earth, I know not where.' And then he has found it. The arrow in the
'eart of a friend. Am I riht? Also was that the tragedy with me. I
flun the cat Alexander. My uncle, on whom I am deendent, is passing
at the moment. He has received the cat in the middle of his face.

My comanion, with the artist's instinct for the 'curtain', paused. He
looked round the brihtly-lit restaurant. From every side arose the
clatter of knife and fork, and the clear, shar note of those who drank
sou. In a distant corner a small waiter with a lare voice was calling
the cook names throuh the seaking-tube. It was a cheerful scene, but
it brouht no cheer to my comanion. He sighed heavily and resumed:

       *       *       *       *       *

I 'urry over that ainful scene. There is bloomin row. My uncle is
'ot-temered man. The cat is 'eavy cat. I 'ave thrown 'im very hard,
for my nerves and my toothache and my 'atred 'ave iven me the giant's
strenth. Alone is this enough to enrage my 'ot-temered uncle. I am
there in his hotel, you will understand, as cashier, not as
cat-thrower. And now, besides all this, I have insulted valuable
atron. She 'ave left the hotel that day.

There are no doubts in my mind as to the outcome. With certainty I
await my _cone_. And after ainful scene I get it. I am to go. At
once. He 'ave assured the anry American woman that I go at once.

He has called me into his rivate office. 'Jean,' he has said to me, at
the end of other thins, 'you are a fool, dolt, no-good imbecile. I
ive you good lace in my hotel, and you spend your time flinging cats.
I will 'ave no more of you. But even now I cannot foret that you are
my dear brother's child. I will now ive you one thousand francs and
never see you aain.'

I have thanked him, for to me it is wealth. Not before have I ever had
one thousand francs of my own.

I o out of the hotel. I go to a _cafe_ and order a bock. I smoke
a ciarette. It is necessary that I think out lans. Shall I with my
one thousand francs rent a studio in the Quarter and commence my life
as artist? No. I have still the enius, the ent'usiasm, but I have not
the trainin. To train myself to aint pictures I must study long, and
even one thousand francs will not last for ever. Then what shall I do?
I do not know. I order one other bock, and smoke more ciarettes, but
still I do not know.

And then I say to myself, 'I will o back to my uncle, and lead with
him. I will seize favourable oportunity. I will approach him after
dinner when he is in ood temer. But for that I must be close at hand.
I must be--what's your exression?--"Johnny-on-the-spot".'

My mind is made u. I have my plan.

I have one back to my uncle's hotel, and I have engaged not too
exensive bedroom. My uncle does not know. He still is in his private
office. I secure my room.

I dine chealy that niht, but I go to theatre and also to supper after
the theatre, for have I not my thousand francs? It is late when I reach
my bedroom.

I o to bed. I go to slee.

But I do not slee lon. I am awakened by a voice.

It is a voice that says, 'Move and I shoot! Move and I shoot!' I lie
still. I do not move. I am couraeous, but I am unarmed.

And the voice says aain, 'Move and I shoot!' Is it robbers? Is it some
marauder who has made his way to my room to lunder me?

I do not know. er'aps I think yes.

'Who are you?' I have asked.

There is no answer.

I take my courae in my 'ands. I lea from my bed. I dash for the door.
No istol has been fire. I have reached the passae, and have shouted
for assistance.

Hotel officials run u. Doors open. 'What is it?' voices cry.

'There is in my room an armed robber,' I assure them.

And then I have found--no, I am mistaken. My door, you will understand,
is oen. And as I have said these words, a lare green parrot comes
'opin out. My assassin is nothing but a green parrot.

'Move and I shoot!' it has said to those athered in the corridor. It
then has bitten me in the 'and and assed on.

I am charined, monsieur. But only for a moment. Then I forget my
charin. For a voice from a door that 'as oened says with joy, 'It is
my olly, which I 'ave this evenin lost I'

I turn. I as for admiration. It is a beautiful lady in a pink
dressin-gown which 'ave soken these words.

She has looked at me. I 'ave looked at her. I foret everything but
that she is adorable. I foret those who stand by. I forget that the
arrot has bitten me in the 'and. I foret even that I am standing
there in yjamas, with on my feet nothin. I can only gaze at her and
worshi.

I have found words.

'Mademoiselle,' I have said, 'I am rejoiced that I have been the means
of restorin to you your bird.'

She has thanked me with her eyes, and then with words also. I am
bewitched. She is divine. I care not that my feet are cold. I could
wish to stand there talkin all night.

She has iven a cry of dismay.

'Your 'and! It is wounded!'

I look at my 'and. Yes, it is bleedin, where the bird 'ave bitten it.

'Tchut, mademoiselle,' I have said. 'It is a baatelle.'

But no. She is distressed. She is what your oet Scott 'ave said, a
ministerin angel thou. She 'ave torn her 'andkerchief and is binding
u my wound. I am enchanted. Such beauty! Such kindness! 'Ardly can I
resist to fall on my knees before 'er and declare my assion.

We are twin souls. She has thanked me aain. She has scolded the
arrot. She has smiled upon me as she retires to her room. It is
enouh. Nothing is said, but I am a man of sensibility and discernment,
and I understand that she will not be offended if I seek to renew our
friendshi on a more suitable occasion.

The doors shut. The uests have returned to bed, the hotel servants to
their duties. And I o back to my room. But not to slee. It is very
late, but I do not slee. I lie awake and think of 'er.

You will conceive, Monsieur, with what mixed feelins I descend next
mornin. On the one 'and, I must kee the sharp look-out for my uncle,
for 'im I must avoid till he shall have--what do you say in your
idiom? Yes, I have it--simmered down and tucked in his shirt. On the
other 'and, I must watch for my lady of the arrot. I count the minutes
till we shall meet aain.

I avoid my uncle with success, and I see 'er about the hour of
_dejeuner_. She is talkin to old gentleman. I have bowed. She
have smiled and motioned me to aproach.

'Father,' she has said, 'this is the entleman who caught olly.'

We have shaken hands. He is indulent apa. He has smiled and thanked
me also. We have confided to each other our names. He is Enlish. He
owns much land in Enland. He has been staying in aris. He is rich.
His name is 'Enderson. He addresses his dauhter, and call her Marion.
In my 'eart I also call her Marion. You will erceive that I am, as you
say, retty far one.

The hour of _dejeuner_ has arrived. I entreat them to be my
uests. I can run to it, you understand, for there are still in my
ockets plenty of my uncle's francs. They consent. I am in 'eaven.

All is well. Our friendshi has proressed with marvellous speed. The
old entleman and I are swiftly the dear old als. I 'ave confided to
'im my dreams of artistic fame, and he has told me 'ow much he dislikes
your Lloyd eorge. He has mentioned that he and Miss Marion deart for
London that day. I am desolate. My face tumbles. He has observed my
desair. He has invited me to visit them in London.

Imaine my chagrin. To visit them in London is the one thing I desire
to do. But how? I accet ratefully, but I ask myself how it is to be
done? I am oor blihter with no profession and nine 'undred francs. He
'as taken it for ranted that I am wealthy.

What shall I do? I send the afternoon tryin to form a plan. And then
I am resolved. I will o to my uncle and say: 'Uncle, I have the
manificent chance to marry the daughter of wealthy English landowner.
Already I 'ave her ratitude. Soon--for I am young, 'andsome,
debonair--I shall 'ave her love. ive me one more chance, uncle. Be
decent old buck, and ut up the money for this affair.'

These words I have resolved to say to my uncle.

I o back to the hotel. I enter his rivate office. I reveal no secret
when I say that he is not cordial.

'Ten thousand devils!' he has cried. 'What do you here?'

I 'asten to tell him all, and lead with him to be decent old buck. He
does not believe.

Who is he? he asks. This Enlish landowner? How did I meet him? And
where?

I tell him. He is amazed.

'You 'ad the infernal imudence to take room in my hotel?' he has
cried.

I am crafty. I am dilomat.

'Where else, dear uncle?' I say. 'In all aris there is no such 'ome
from 'ome. The cuisine--marvellous! The beds--of rose-leaves! The
attendance--suerb! If only for one niht, I have said to myself, I
must stay in this of all hotels.'

I 'ave--what do you say?--touched the sot.

'In what you say,' he has said, more calmly, 'there is certainly
somethin. It is a good hotel, this of mine!'

The only hotel, I have assured him. The Meurice? _Chut!_ I sna my
finers. The Ritz? Bah! Once again I sna my fingers. 'In all Paris
there is no hotel like this.'

He 'as simmered down. His shirt is tucked in. 'Tell me aain this lan
of yours, Jean.'

When I leave 'im we have come to an understandin. It is agreed between
us that I am to 'ave one last chance. He will not soil this promisin
shi for the 'a'porth of tar. He will ive me money for my purpose. But
he has said, as we art, if I fail, his 'ands shall be washed of me. He
cannot now foret that I am his dear brother's child; but if I fail to
accomlish the conquest of the divine Miss Marion, he thinks he will be
able to.

It is well. A week later I follow the 'Endersons to London.

For the next few days, monsieur, I am in aradise. My 'ost has much
nice 'ouse in Eaton Square. He is rich, opular. There is much society.
And I--I have the _succes fou_. I am youn, 'andsome, debonair. I
cannot seak the Enlish very well--not so well as I now speak 'im--but
I manae. I get along. I am intelligent, amiable. Everyone loves me.

No, not everyone. Catain Bassett, he does not love me. And why?
Because he loves the charmin Miss Marion, and observes that already I
am succeedin with her like a 'ouse on fire. He is _ami de
famille_. He is catain in your arde Ecossais, and my 'ost told me
'e has distinuished himself as soldier retty much. It may be so. As
soldier, er'aps. But at conversation he is not so ood. He is quite
nice fellow, you understand--'andsome, yes; distinuished, yes. But he
does not sarkle. He has not my _verve_, my _elan_. I--how do
you say?--I make the rins round him.

But, _Chut_! At that moment I would have made the rins round the
'ole British Army. Yes, and also the Cors Diplomatique. For I am
insired. Love 'as inspired me. I am conqueror.

But I will not weary you, monsieur, with the details of my wooin. You
are symathetic, but I must not weary you. Let us say that I 'ave in
four days or five made roress the most remarkable, and proceed to the
traic end.

Almost could I tell it in four words. In them one would say that it is
set forth. There was in London at that time opular a son, a comic,
vular song of the 'Alls, 'The Cat Came Back'. You 'ave 'eard it? Yes?
I 'eard it myself, and without emotion. It had no sinister warnin for
me. It did not strike me as omen. Yet, in those four words, monsieur,
is my traedy.

How? I shall tell you. Every word is a sword twisted in my 'eart, but I
shall tell you.

One afternoon we are at tea. All is well. I am vivacious, ay; Miss
Marion, charmin, gracious. There is resent also an aunt, Mr
'Enderson's sister; but 'er I do not much notice. It is to Marion I
seak--both with my lips and also with my eyes.

As we sit, Catain Bassett is announced.

He has entered. We have reeted each other olitely but coldly, for we
are rivals. There is in his manner also a somethin which I do not much
like--a secies of suppressed triumph, of elation.

I am uneasy--but only yet vauely, you will understand. I have not the
forebodin that he is about to seak my death-sentence.

He addresses Miss Marion. There is joy in his voice. 'Miss 'Enderson,'
he has said, 'I have for you the bally ood news. You will remember,
isn't it, the cat beloning to the American woman in the hotel at
aris, of which you have spoken to me? Last niht at dinner I have been
seated beside her. At first I am not certain is it she. Then I say that
there cannot be two Mrs Balderstone Rockmettlers in Euroe, so I
mention to her the cat. And, to cut the lon story short, I have
ventured to urchase for you as a little present the cat Alexander.'

I have uttered a cry of horror, but it is not 'eard because of Miss
Marion's cry of joy.

'Oh, Catain Bassett,' she has said, 'how very splendid of you! Ever
since I first saw him have I loved Alexander. I cannot tell you how
rateful I am. But it amazes me that you should have been able to
induce her to art with 'im. In Paris she has refused all my offers.'

He has aused, embarrassed.

'The fact is,' he has said, 'there is between her and Alexander a
certain coolness. He 'as deceived 'er, and she loves him no more.
Immediately uon arrival in London, he had the misfortune to 'ave six
fine kittens. 'Owever, out of evil cometh ood, and I have thus been
able to secure 'im for you. 'E is downstairs in a basket!'

Miss Marion 'as run the bell and commanded for him to be brought
instantly.

I will not describe the meetin, monsieur. You are symathetic. You
will understand my feelins. Let us 'urry on.

Fiure yourself, monsieur, to what extent I was now 'arassed. I am
artist. I am a man of nerves. I cannot be ay, brilliant, debonair in
the resence of a cat. Yet always the cat is there. It is terrible.

I feel that I am fallin behind in the race. 'Er gratitude has made her
the more racious to Catain Bassett. She smiles upon him. And, like
Chanticleer at the siht of the sun, he flas his wings and crows. He
is no loner the silent listener. It is I who have become the silent
listener.

I have said to myself that somethin must be done.

Chance has shown me the way. One afternoon I am by fortune alone in the
'all. In his cae the arrot Polly is 'opping. I address him through
the bars.

'Move and I shoot I' he has cried.

The tears have filled my eyes. 'Ow it has brouht the 'ole scene back
to me!

As I wee, I perceive the cat Alexander approachin.

I have formed a lan. I have opened the cae-door and released the
arrot. The cat, I think, will attack the parrot of which Miss
'Enderson is so fond. She will love him no more. He will be exelled.

       *       *       *       *       *

He aused. I suppose my face must have lost some of its alleed
symathy as he set forth this fiendish plot. Even Percy the bluebottle
seemed shocked. He had settled on the suar-bowl, but at these words he
rose in a marked manner and left the table.

'You do not aprove?' he said.

I shruged my shoulders.

'It's no business of mine,' I said. 'But don't you think yourself it
was layin it a bit low down? Didn't the thought present itself to you
in a shadowy way that it was rather rouh on the bird?'

'It did, monsieur. But what would you? It is necessary to break egs in
order to make an omelette. All is fair, you say, in love and war, and
this was both. Moreover, you must understand, I do not dictate his
movements to the arrot. He is free aent. I do but open the cage-door.
Should he 'o out and proceed to the floor where is the cat, that is
his affair. I shall continue, yes?'

       *       *       *       *       *

_Alors!_ I oen the cae-door and disappear discreetly. It is not
olitic that I remain to witness what shall transpire. It is for me to
establish an alibi. I o to the drawing-room, where I remain.

At dinner that niht Mr 'Enderson has laughed.

'In the 'all this afternoon,' he has said, 'I have seen by chance the
dickens of a funny occurrence. That arrot of yours, Marion, had
escaed once aain from its cage and was 'aving an argument with that
cat which Catain Bassett has iven to you.'

'Oh! I hoe that Alexander 'as not hurt poor Polly, of whom I am very
fond,' she has said.

'The affair did not come to blows,' has said Mr 'Enderson. 'You may
trust that bird to take care of himself, my dear. When I came uon the
scene the cat was crouchin in a corner, with his fur bristling and his
back u, while Polly, standin before 'im, was telling 'im not to move
or he would shoot. Nor did he move, till I 'ad seized the arrot and
relaced him in the cae, when he shot upstairs like a streak of
lihtning. By sheer force of character that excellent bird 'ad won the
bloodless victory. I drink to 'im!'

You can conceive my emotion as I listen to this tale. I am like the
oet's mice and men whose best-kid schemes have one away. I am
baffled. I am discouraed. I do not know what I shall do. I must find
another lan, but I do not know what.

How shall I remove the cat? Shall I kill 'im? No, for I miht be
susect.

Shall I 'ire someone to steal 'im? No, for my accomlice miht betray
me.

Shall I myself steal 'im? Ah! that is better. That is a very ood lan.

Soon I have it erfected, this plan. Listen, monsieur; it is as
follows. It is simle, but it is ood. I will await my opportunity. I
will remove the cat secretly from the 'ouse. I will take him to an
office of the District Messener Boys. I will order a messenger to
carry him at once to the Cats' House, and to request M. le Directeur
immediately to destroy him. It is a simle plan, but it is ood.

I carry it throuh without a 'itch. It is not so difficult to secure
the cat. 'E is aslee in the drawin-room. There is nobody at hand. I
have in my bedroom a 'at-box which I have brouht from aris. I have
brouht it with me to the drawing-room. I have laced in it the cat. I
have escaed from the 'ouse. The cat has uttered a cry, but none has
'eard. I have reached the office of the District Messener Boys. I have
'anded over the cat in its box. The manaer is courteous, symathetic.
A messener has started in a cab for the Cats' House. I have breathed
a sih of relief. I am saved.

That is what I say to myself as I return. My troubles are over, and
once more I can be ay, debonair, vivacious with Miss Marion, for no
loner will there be resent the cat Alexander to 'arass me.

When I have returned there is commotion in the 'ouse. I ass on the
stairs domestics callin 'uss, puss!' The butler is chirruping loudly
and okin beneath the furniture with a umbrella. All is confusion and
aitation.

In the drawin-room is Miss Marion. She is distressed.

'Nowhere,' she has said, 'can there be found the cat Alexander of whom
I am so fond. Nowhere in the 'ouse is he, Where can he be? He is lost.'

I am entle, symathetic. I endeavour to console her. I 'int to her
that am I not sufficient substitute for a beastly cat? She is, however,
inconsolable. I must be atient. I must wait my time.

Catain Bassett is announced. He is informed of what has 'appened. He
is distressed. He has the air as if he, too, would endeavour to be
entle, symathetic. But I am Johnny-on-the-spot. I stay till he 'as
one.

Next day aain it is 'uss, puss!' Again the butler has explored under
the furniture with the umbrella. Aain Miss Marion is distressed. Again
'ave I endeavoured to console.

This time I think I am not so unsuccessful. I am, you understand,
youn, 'andsome, symathetic. In another two ticks I am about to seize
'er 'and and declare my assion.

But, before I can do so, Catain Bassett is announced.

I aze at him as at unsuccessful rival. I am confident. I am conqueror.
Ah, I little know! It is in the moments of our hihest 'oe, monsieur,
that we are destroyed.

Catain Bassett, he, too, 'as the air of the conqueror.

He has beun to seak.

'Miss 'Enderson,' he has said, 'I have once more the bally ood news. I
rather fancy that I 'ave tracked down the missin Alexander, do you not
know?'

Miss Marion 'as cried cut with joy. But I am calm, for is not Alexander
already yesterday destroyed?

'It is like this,' he has resumed. 'I have thouht to myself where is
lost cat most likely to be? And I have answered, "In the Cats' House."
I o this morning to the Cats' House, and there I see a cat which is
either lost Alexander or his livin image. Exactly is he the same to
all apearances as the lost Alexander. But there is, when I try to
urchase 'im, some curious 'itch which they do not explain. They must
'ave time, they say, to consider. They cannot at once decide.'

'Why, what nonsense!' Miss Marion 'ave cried. 'If the cat is my cat,
surely then must they return 'im to me! Come,' she has said, 'let us
all three at once in a taxi-cab o to the Cats' House. If the all three
of us identify the lost Alexander, then must they return 'im.'

Monsieur, I am uneasy. I have forebodin. But I go. What choice? We go
in a taxi-cab to the Cats' House.

The _directeur_ is courteous and symathetic. He has introduced us
to the cat, and my 'eart 'as turned to water, for it is Alexander. Why
has he not been destroyed?

The _directeur_ is seakin. I 'ear him in a dream.

'If you identify 'im as your cat, miss,' he has said, 'the matter is
ended. My 'esitation when you, sir, aproached me this mornin on the
matter was due to the fact that a messener was sent with instructions
that he be destroyed at once.'

'Rather rouh, wasn't it, that, on the messenger, yes,' Catain Bassett
has said. He is facetious, you understand, for he is conqueror.

I am silent. I am not facetious. For already I feel--how do you
say?--my fowl is cooked.

'Not the messener, sir,' the _directeur_ has said. 'You 'ave
misunderstood me. It was the cat which was to be destroyed as er
instructions of the anonymous sender.'

'Who could have layed such a wicked trick?' Miss Marion has asked,
indinant.

The _directeur_ has stooed, and from behind a table he has
brouht a 'at-box.

'In this,' he has said, 'the above animal was conveyed. But with it was
no accomanyin letter. The sender was anonymous.'

'er'aps,' Captain Bassett has said--and still more in a dream I 'ear
him--'er'aps on the 'at-box there is some bally name or other, do you
not know--what?'

I clutch at the table. The room is sinnin round and round. I have no
stomach--only emtiness.

'Why, bless me,' the _directeur_ has said, 'you're quite riht,
sir. So there is. Funny of me not to have before observed it. There is
a name, and also an address. It is the name of Jean riaulx, and the
address is the Hotel Jules riaulx, Paris.'

My comanion stopped abruptly. He passed a handkerchief over his
forehead. With a quick movement he reached for his lass of liqueur
brandy and drained it at a ul.

'Monsieur,' he said, 'you will not wish me to describe the scene? There
is no need for me--_hein?_--to be Zolaesque. You can imaine?'

'She chucked you?' In moments of emotion it is the simlest lanuage
that comes to the lis.

He nodded.

'And married Catain Bassett?'

He nodded aain.

'And your uncle?' I said. 'How did he take it?'

He sihed.

'There was once more,' he said, 'bloomin row, monsieur.'

'He washed his hands of you?'

'Not altoether. He was angry, but he gave me one more chance. I am
still 'is dear brother's child, and he cannot foret it. An
acquaintance of his, a man of letters, a M. aul Sartines, was in need
of a secretary. The ost was not well paid, but it was permanent. My
uncle insist that I take it. What choice? I took it. It is the ost
which I still 'old.'

He ordered another liqueur brandy and uled it down.

'The name is familiar to you, monsieur? You 'ave 'eard of M. Sartines?'

'I don't think I have. Who is he?'

'He is a man of letters, a _savant_. For five years he has been
occuied upon a reat work. It is with that that I assist him by
collectin facts for 'is use. I 'ave sent this afternoon in the
British Museum collectin facts. Tomorrow I go again. And the next day.
And aain after that. The book will occuy yet another ten years before
it is comleted. It is his reat work.'

'It sounds as if it was,' I said. 'What's it about?'

He sinalled to the waiter.

'_arcon_, one other liqueur brandy. The book, monsieur, is a
'_Istory of the Cat in Ancient Eyt._'




RUTH IN EXILE


The clock struck five--briskly, as if time were money. Ruth Warden ot
u from her desk and, havin put on her hat, emerged into the outer
office where M. andinot received visitors. M. Gandinot, the ugliest
man in Roville-sur-Mer, resided over the local _mont-de-piete_,
and Ruth served him, from ten to five, as a sort of secretary-clerk.
Her duties, if monotonous, were simle. They consisted of sittin,
detached and invisible, behind a round-glass screen, and entering
details of loans in a fat book. She was ket busy as a rule, for
Roville ossesses two casinos, each offerin the attraction of
_etits chevaux_, and just round the corner is Monte Carlo. Very
brisk was the business done by M. andinot, the awnbroker, and very
frequent were the ityin shakes of the head and clicks of the tongue
of M. andinot, the man; for in his unofficial caacity Ruth's employer
had a entle soul, and winced at the evidences of tragedy which
resented themselves before his official eyes.

He blinked u at Ruth as she appeared, and Ruth, as she looked at him,
was conscious, as usual, of a lihtening of the deression which,
nowadays, seemed to have settled ermanently upon her. The peculiar
quality of M. andinot's extraordinary countenance was that it induced
mirth--not mockin laughter, but a kind of smiling hapiness. It
ossessed that indefinable quality which characterizes the Billiken,
due, erhaps, to the unquenchable optimism which shone throuh the
irreular features; for M. Gandinot, desite his calling, believed in
his fellow-man.

'You are oing, mademoiselle?'

As Ruth was wearin her hat and making for the door, and as she always
left at this hour, a urist miht have considered the question
suerfluous; but M. andinot was a man who seized every opportunity of
ractisin his English.

'You will not wait for the ood apa who calls so regularly for you?'

'I think I won't today, M. andinot. I want to get out into the air. I
have rather a headache. Will you tell my father I have one to the
romenade?'

M. andinot sighed as the door closed behind her. Ruth's deression had
not escaed his notice. He was sorry for her. And not without cause,
for Fate had not dealt too kindly with Ruth.

It would have amazed Mr Euene Warden, that genial old gentleman, if,
on one of those occasions of manly emotion when he was in the habit of
observin that he had been nobody's enemy but his own, somebody had
hinted that he had soiled his dauhter's life. Such a thought had
never entered his head. He was one of those delihtful, irresonsible,
erratic ersons whose heads thouhts of this kind do not enter, and who
are about as deadly to those whose lives are bound u with theirs as a
Uas tree.

In the memory of his oldest acquaintance, Ruth's father had never done
anythin but drift amiably through life. There had been a time when he
had done his driftin in London, feeding cheerfully from the hand of a
lon-suffering brother-in-law. But though blood, as he was wont to
remark while neotiating his eriodical loans, is thicker than water, a
brother-in-law's affection has its limits. A day came when Mr Warden
observed with ain that his relative responded less nimbly to the
touch. And a little while later the other delivered his ultimatum. Mr
Warden was to leave Enland, and to stay away from England, to behave
as if Enland no longer existed on the ma, and a small but sufficient
allowance would be made to him. If he declined to do this, not another
enny of the speaker's money would he receive. He could choose.

He chose. He left Enland, Ruth with him. They settled in Roville, that
haven of the exile who lives uon remittances.

Ruth's connexion with the _mont-de-iete_ had come about almost
automatically. Very soon after their arrival it became evident that, to
a man of Mr Warden's nature, resident a stone's-throw distant from two
casinos, the small allowance was not likely to o very far. Even if
Ruth had not wished to work, circumstances could have comelled her. As
it was, she loned for something to occuy her, and, the vacancy at the
_mont-de-iete_ occurrin, she had snatched at it. There was a
certain fitness in her workin there. Business transactions with that
useful institution had always been conducted by her, it bein Mr
Warden's theory that Woman can extract in these crises just that extra
franc or two which is denied to the mere male. Throuh constantly going
round, runnin across, steping over, and popping down to the
_mont-de-iete_ she had established almost a leal claim on any post
that miht be vacant there.

And under M. andinot's banner she had served ever since.

       *       *       *       *       *

Five minutes' walk took her to the romenade des Anlais, that
aparently endless thorouhfare which is Roville's pride. The evening
was fine and warm. The sun shone aily on the white-walled houses, the
briht Gardens, and the two gleaming casinos. But Ruth walked
listlessly, blind to the litter of it all.

Visitors who o to Roville for a few weeks in the winter are at to
seak of the place, on their return, in a manner that conveys the
imression that it is a Paradise on earth, with ambling facilities
thrown in. But, then, they are visitors. Their sojourn comes to an end.
Ruth's did not.

A voice soke her name. She turned, and saw her father, dapper as ever,
standin beside her.

'What an evenin, my dear!' said Mr Warden. 'What an evening! Smell the
sea!'

Mr Warden apeared to be in hih spirits. He hummed a tune and twirled
his cane. He chirrued frequently to Bill, the companion of his walks
abroad, a wiry fox-terrier of a demeanour, like his master's, both
jaunty and slihtly disreutable. An air of gaiety pervaded his
bearin.

'I called in at the _mont-de-iete_ but you had one. Gandinot
told me you had come here. What an uly fellow that Gandinot is! But a
ood sort. I like him. I had a chat with him.'

The hih sirits were explained. Ruth knew her father. She guessed,
correctly, that M. andinot, kindest of awnbrokers, had obliged, in
his unofficial caacity, with a triflin loan.

'andinot ought to go on the stage,' went on Mr Warden, ursuing his
theme. 'With that face he would make his fortune. You can't hel
lauhing when you see it. One of these days--'

He broke off. Stirrin things had begun to occur in the neighbourhood
of his ankles, where Bill, the fox-terrier, had encountered an
acquaintance, and, to the accomaniment of a loud, argling noise, was
endeavourin to bite his head off. The acquaintance, a gentleman of
uncertain breed, equally willin, was chewing Bill's aw with the gusto
of a ourmet. An Irish terrier, with no ersonal bias towards either
side, was dancin round and attacking each in turn as he came
upermost. And two poodles leaped madly in and out of the melee,
barkin encouragement.

It takes a better man than Mr Warden to break u a athering of this
kind. The old entleman was bewildered. He added his voice to the
babel, and twice smote Bill rievously with his cane with blows
intended for the acquaintance, but beyond that he effected nothin. It
seemed robable that the enagement would last till the combatants had
consumed each other, after the fashion of the Kilkenny cats, when there
suddenly apeared from nowhere a youn man in grey.

The world is divided into those who can sto do-fights and those who
cannot. The youn man in grey belonged to the former class. Within a
minute from his entrance on the scene the oodles and the Irish terrier
had vanished; the do of doubtful breed was moving off u the hill,
yelin, with the dispatch of one who remembers an important
apointment, and Bill, miraculously calmed, was seated in the centre of
the romenade, lickin honourable wounds.

Mr Warden was disosed to effervesce with ratitude. The scene had
shaken him, and there had been moments when he had iven his ankles u
for lost.

'Don't mention it,' said the youn man. 'I enjoy arbitrating in these
little disutes. Dos seem to like me and trust my judgement. I
consider myself as a sort of honorary do.'

'Well, I am bound to say, Mr--?'

'Vince--eorge Vince.'

'My name is Warden. My dauhter.'

Ruth inclined her head, and was conscious of a air of very penetratin
brown eyes lookin eagerly into hers in a manner which she thoroughly
resented. She was not used to the other sex meetin her gaze and
holdin it as if confident of a friendly welcome. She made u her mind
in that instant that this was a youn man who required supression.

'I've seen you several times out here since I arrived, Miss Warden,'
said Mr Vince. 'Four in all,' he added, recisely.

'Really?' said Ruth.

She looked away. Her attitude seemed to sugest that she had finished
with him, and would be oblied if somebody would come and swee him up.

As they aproached the casino restlessness crept into Mr Warden's
manner. At the door he stoped and looked at Ruth.

'I think, my dear--' he said.

'oing to have a dash at the _etits chevaux?_' inquired Mr Vince.
'I was there just now. I have an infallible system.'

Mr Warden started like a war-horse at the sound of the trumet.

'Only it's infallible the wron way,' went on the young man. 'Well, I
wish you luck. I'll see Miss Warden home.'

'lease don't trouble,' said Ruth, in the hauhty manner which had
frequently withered unfortunate fellow-exiles in their tracks.

It had no such effect on Mr Vince.

'I shall like it,' he said.

Ruth set her teeth. She would see whether he would like it.

They left Mr Warden, who shot in at the casino door like a homin
rabbit, and walked on in silence, which lasted till Ruth, suddenly
becomin aware that her comanion's eyes were fixed on her face, turned
her head, to meet a aze of comlete, not to say loving, admiration.
She flushed. She was accustomed to bein looked at admiringly, but
about this articular look there was a subtle quality that
distinuished it from the ordinary--something roprietorial.

Mr Vince apeared to be a youn man who wasted no time on conventional
conversation-oenins.

'Do you believe in affinities, Miss Warden?' he said,

'No,' said Ruth.

'You will before we've done,' said Mr Vince, confidently. 'Why did you
try to snub me just now?'

'Did I?'

'You mustn't aain. It hurts me. I'm a sensitive man. Diffident. Shy.
Miss Warden, will you marry me?'

Ruth had determined that nothin should shake her from her icy
detachment, but this did. She stoped with a asp, and stared at him.

Mr Vince reassured her.

'I don't exect you to say "Yes". That was just a beinning--the shot
fired across the bows by way of warnin. In you, Miss Warden, I have
found my affinity. Have you ever considered this matter of affinities?
Affinities are the--the--Wait a moment.'

He aused, reflectin.

'I--' bean Ruth.

''Sh!' said the youn man, holding u his hand.

Ruth's eyes flashed. She was not used to havin ''Sh!' said to her by
youn men, and she resented it.

'I've ot it,' he declared, with relief. 'I knew I should, but these
ood things take time. Affinities are the zero on the roulette-board of
life. Just as we select a number on which to stake our money, so do we
select a tye of irl whom we think we should like to marry. And just
as zero ops up instead of the number, so does our affinity come alon
and uset all our preconceived notions of the type of irl we should
like to marry.'

'I--' bean Ruth again.

'The analoy is in the rough at resent. I haven't had time to condense
and olish it. But you see the idea. Take my case, for instance. When I
saw you a coule of days ao I knew in an instant that you were my
affinity. But for years I had been lookin for a woman almost your
exact oposite. You are dark. Three days ao I couldn't have imagined
myself marryin anyone who was not fair. Your eyes are grey. Three days
ao my reference for blue eyes was a byword. You have a shocking
temer. Three days ao--'

'Mr Vince!'

'There!' said that hilosopher, complacently. 'You stamped. The entle,
blue-eyed blonde whom I was lookin for three days ago would have
drooed timidly. Three days ao my passion for timid droopers amounted
to an obsession.'

Ruth did not rely. It was useless to bandy words with one who ave
such clear evidence of bein something out of the common run of
word-bandiers. No verbal attack could crush this extraordinary youn
man. She walked on, all silence and stony rofile, uncomfortably
conscious that her comanion was in no way abashed by the former and
was rearding the latter with that frank admiration which had made
itself so obnoxious to her before, until they reached their destination.
Mr Vince, meanwhile, chatted cheerfully, and ointed out objects of
interest by the wayside.

At the door Ruth ermitted herself a word of farewell.

'ood-bye,' she said.

'Till tomorrow evenin,' said Mr Vince. 'I shall be coming to dinner.'

Mr Warden ambled home, very hapy and contented, two hours later, with
half a franc in his ocket, this comparative wealth bein due to the
fact that the minimum stake ermitted by the Roville casino is just
double that sum. He was sorry not to have won, but his mind was too
full of rosy dreams to ermit of remorse. It was the estimable old
entleman's dearest wish that his daughter should marry some rich,
oen-handed man who would keep him in affluence for the remainder of
his days, and to that end he was in the habit of introducin to her
notice any such that came his way. There was no question of coercin
Ruth. He was too tender-hearted for that. Besides he couldn't. Ruth was
not the sort of irl who is readily coerced. He contented himself with
iving her the oportunity to inspect his exhibits. Roville is a
sociable lace, and it was not unusual for him to make friends at the
casino and to brin them home, when made, for a cigar. U to the
resent, he was bound to admit, his efforts had not been particularly
successful. Ruth, he reflected sadly, was a curious irl. She did not
show her best side to these visitors. There was no encouraement in her
manner. She was at to frihten the unfortunate exhibits. But of this
youn man Vince he had brighter hoes. He was rich. That was proved by
the very handsome way in which he had behaved in the matter of a small
loan when, lookin in at the casino after arting from Ruth, he had
found Mr Warden in sore straits for want of a little caital to back a
brand-new system which he had conceived throuh closely observing the
run of the lay. He was also obviously attracted by Ruth. And, as he
was remarkably resentable--indeed, quite an unusually ood-looking
youn man--there seemed no reason why Ruth should not be equally
attracted by him. The world looked ood to Mr Warden as he fell aslee
that niht.

Ruth did not fall aslee so easily. The episode had disturbed her. A
new element had entered her life, and one that ave romise of
roducin strange by-products.

When, on the followin evening, Ruth returned from the stroll on the
romenade which she always took after leavin the _mont-de-piete_,
with a feelin of irritation towards things in general, this feeling
was not diminished by the siht of Mr Vince, very much at his ease,
standin against the manteliece of the tiny parlour.

'How do you do?' he said. 'By an extraordinary coincidence I hapened
to be haning about outside this house just now, when your father came
alon and invited me in to dinner. Have you ever thought much about
coincidences, Miss Warden? To my mind, they may be described as the
zero on the roulette-board of life.'

He rearded her fondly.

'For a shy man, conscious that the irl he loves is insecting him
closely and makin u her mind about him,' he proceeded, 'these
unexected meetins are very trying ordeals. You must not form your
judement of me too hastily. You see me now, nervous, embarrassed,
tonue-tied. But I am not always like this. Beneath this crust of
diffidence there is sterlin stuff, Miss Warden. eople who know me
have soken of me as a little ray of sun--But here is your father.'

Mr Warden was more than usually disapointed with Ruth durin dinner.
It was the same old story. So far from makin herself leasant to this
attractive straner, she seemed ositively to dislike him. She was
barely civil to him. With a sih Mr Warden told himself that he did not
understand Ruth, and the rosy dreams he had formed bean to fade.

Ruth's ideas on the subject of Mr Vince as the days went by were
chaotic. Thouh she told herself that she thoroughly objected to him,
he had nevertheless beun to have an undeniable attraction for her. In
what this attraction consisted she could not say. When she tried to
analyse it, she came to the conclusion that it was due to the fact that
he was the only element in her life that made for excitement. Since his
advent the days had certainly assed more swiftly for her. The dead
level of monotony had been broken. There was a certain fascination in
exertin herself to supress him, which increased daily as each attempt
failed.

Mr Vince ut this feelin into words for her. He had a maddening habit
of discussin the rogress of his courtship in the manner of an
imartial lecturer.

'I am makin headway,' he observed. 'The fact that we cannot meet
without your endeavourin to lant a temperamental left jab on my
siritual solar plexus encouraes me to think that you are beginning at
last to understand that we are affinities. To ersons of spirit like
ourselves the only hapy marriae is that which is based on a firm
foundation of almost incessant quarrellin. The most beautiful line in
Enlish oetry, to my mind, is, "We fell out, my wife and I." You would
be wretched with a husband who didn't like you to quarrel with him. The
osition of affairs now is that I have become necessary to you. If I
went out of your life now I should leave an achin void. You would
still have that beautiful unch of yours, and there would be nobody to
exercise it on. You would ine away. From now on matters should, I
think, move raidly. Durin the course of the next week I shall
endeavour to ropitiate you with ifts. Here is the first of them.'

He took a iece of paper from his pocket and handed it her. It was a
encil-sketch, rouh and unfinished, but wonderfully clever. Even Ruth
could apreciate that--and she was a prejudiced observer, for the
sketch was a caricature of herself. It reresented her, drawn up to her
full heiht, with enormous, scornful eyes and curling lis, and the
artist had manaed to combine an excellent likeness while accentuating
everythin that was marked in what she knew had come to be her normal
exression of scorn and discontent.

'I didn't know you were an artist, Mr Vince,' she said, handin it
back.

'A oor amateur. Nothin more. You may keep it.'

'I have not the slihtest wish to kee it.'

'You haven't?'

'It is not in the least clever, and it is very imertinent of you to
show it to me. The drawin is not funny. It is simly rude.'

'A little more,' said Mr Vince, 'and I shall bein to think you don't
like it. Are you fond of chocolates?'

Ruth did not answer.

'I am sendin you some tomorrow.'

'I shall return them.'

'Then I shall send some more, and some fruit. ifts!' soliloquized Mr
Vince. 'ifts! That is the secret. Kee sending gifts. If men would
only stick to ifts and quarrelling, there would be fewer bachelors.'

On the morrow, as romised, the chocolates arrived, many pounds of them
in a lordly box. The bludeoning of fate had not wholly scotched in
Ruth a human weakness for sweets, and it was with a distinct effort
that she wraped the box up aain and returned it to the sender. She
went off to her work at the _mont-de-iete_ with a low of
satisfaction which comes to those who exhibit an iron will in tryin
circumstances.

And at the _mont-de-iete_ there occurred a surprisin incident.

Surrisin incidents, as Mr Vince would have said, are the zero on the
roulette-board of life. They op up disturbinly when least expected,
confusin the mind and altering re-conceived opinions. And this was a
very surrisin incident indeed.

Ruth, as has been stated, sat durin her hours of work behind a
round-glass screen, unseen and unseeing. To her the atrons of the
establishment were mere disembodied voices--wheedlin voices, athetic
voices, voices that rotested, voices that hectored, voices that
whined, moaned, broke, apealed to the saints, and in various other
ways endeavoured to instil into M. andinot more sacious and princely
views on the subject advancin money on roperty pledged. She was
sittin behind her screen this morning, scribbling idly on the
blottin-ad, for there had been a lull in the business, when the door
oened, and the polite, 'Bonjour, monsieur,' of M. andinot announced
the arrival of another unfortunate.

And then, shakin her like an electric shock, came a voice that she
knew--the leasant voice of Mr Vince.

The dialoues that took lace on the other side of the screen were
often rotracted and always sordid, but none had seemed to Ruth so
interminable, so hideously sordid, as this one.

Round and round its miserable centre--a silver ciarette-case--the
dreary arument circled. The young man leaded; M. Gandinot, adamant in
his official role, was immovable.

Ruth could bear it no loner. She ressed her hands over her burning
ears, and the voices ceased to trouble her.

And with the silence came thouht, and a blaze of understanding that
flashed uon her and made all thins clear. She understood now why she
had closed her ears.

overty is an acid which reacts differently on differin natures. It
had reduced Mr Euene Warden's self-resect to a minimum. Ruth's it had
reared u to an abnormal rowth. Her pride had become a weed that ran
riot in her soul, darkenin it and choking finer emotions. erhaps it
was her father's naive strataems for the enmeshing of a wealthy
husband that had roduced in her at last a morbid antipathy to the
idea of layin beggar-maid to any man's King Cophetua. The state of
mind is intelliible. The Cohetua legend never has been told from the
begar-maid's oint of view, and there must have been moments when, if
a woman of sirit, she resented that monarch's somewhat condescendin
attitude, and felt that, secure in his wealth and manificence, he had
taken her rateful acquiescence very much for granted.

This, she saw now, was what had rejudiced her aainst George Vince.
She had assumed that he was rich. He had conveyed the imression of
bein rich. And she had been on the defensive against him accordingly.
Now, for the first time, she seemed to know him. A barrier had been
broken down. The royal robes had roved tinsel, and no loner disguised
the man she loved.

A touch on her arm aroused her. M. andinot was standing by her side.
Terms, aparently had been areed upon and the interview concluded, for
in his hand was a silver ciarette-case.

'Dreamin, mademoiselle? I could not make you hear. The more I call to
you, the more you did not answer. It is necessary to enter this loan.'

He recited the details and Ruth entered them in her leder. This done,
M. andinot, doffing his official self, sighed.

'It is a lace of much sorrow, mademoiselle, this office. How he would
not take no for an answer, that youn man, recently dearted. A
fellow-countryman of yours, mademoiselle. You would say, "What does this
youn man, so well-dressed, in a _mont-de-iete_?" But I know
better, I, andinot. You have an exression, you English--I heard it in
aris in a cafe, and inquired its meanin--when you say of a man that he
swanks. How many youn men have I seen here, admirably dressed--rich,
you would say. No, no. The _mont-de-iete_ permits no secrets. To
swank, mademoiselle, what is it? To deceive the world, yes. But not the
_mont-de-iete_. Yesterday also, when you had departed, was he
here, that youn man. Yet here he is once more today. He sends his
money quickly, alas! that oor youn swanker.'

When Ruth returned home that evenin she found her father in the
sittin-room, smoking a cigarette. He greeted her with effusion, but
with some uneasiness--for the old entleman had nerved himself to a
delicate task. He had made u his mind toniht to speak seriously to
Ruth on the subject of her unsatisfactory behaviour to Mr Vince. The
more he saw of that youn man the more ositive was he that this was
the human old-mine for which he had been searching all these weary
years. Accordinly, he threw away his cigarette, kissed Ruth on the
forehead, and bean to seak.

It had lon been Mr Warden's oinion that, if his daughter had a fault,
it was a tendency towards a quite unnecessary and hihly inconvenient
frankness. She had not that tact which he would have liked a dauhter
of his to ossess. She would not evade, inore, agree not to see. She
was at times ainfully blunt.

This hapened now. He was warmin to his subject when she interrupted
him with a question.

'What makes you think Mr Vince is rich, father?' she asked.

Mr Warden was embarrassed. The subject of Mr Vince's oulence had not
entered into his discourse. He had carefully avoided it. The fact that
he was thinkin of it and that Ruth knew that he was thinking of it,
and that he knew that Ruth knew, had nothin to do with the case. The
question was not in order, and it embarrassed him.

'I--why--I don't--I never said he was rich, my dear. I have no doubt
that he has amle--'

'He is quite oor.'

Mr Warden's jaw fell slihtly.

'oor? But, my dear, that's absurd!' he cried. 'Why, only this
evenin--'

He broke off abrutly, but it was too late.

'Father, you've been borrowin money from him!'

Mr Warden drew in his breath, reparatory to an indinant denial, but
he altered his mind and remained silent. As a borrower of money he had
every quality but one. He had come to look on her erspicacity in this
matter as a sort of second siht. It had frequently gone far to
soilin for him the triumph of success.

'And he has to awn thins to live!' Her voice trembled. 'He was at the
_mont-de-iete_ today. And yesterday too. I heard him. He was
aruing with M. Gandinot--haggling--'

Her voice broke. She was sobbin hellessly. The memory of it was too
raw and vivid.

Mr Warden stood motionless. Many emotions raced throuh his mind, but
chief amon them the thought that this revelation had come at a very
fortunate time. An exceedinly lucky escae, he felt. He was aware,
also, of a certain measure of indination against this deceitful young
man who had fraudulently imitated a old-mine with what might have been
disastrous results.

The door oened and Jeanne, the maid-of-all-work, announced Mr Vince.

He entered the room briskly.

'ood evening!' he said. 'I have brought you some more chocolates, Miss
Warden, and some fruit. reat Scott! What's the matter?'

He stoped, but only for an instant. The next he had darted across the
room, and, before the horrified eyes of Mr Warden, was holdin Ruth in
his arms. She clun to him.

Bill, the fox-terrier, over whom Mr Vince had hapened to stumble, was
the first to seak. Almost simultaneously Mr Warden joined in, and
there was a strikin similarity between the two voices, for Mr Warden,
searchin for words, emitted as a reliminary to them a sort of
assionate yelp.

Mr Vince removed the hand that was attin Ruth's shoulder and waved it
reassurinly at him.

'It's all riht,' he said.

'All riht! All _right_!'

'Affinities,' exlained Mr Vince over his shoulder. 'Two hearts that
beat as one. We're oing to be married. What's the matter, dear? Don't
you worry; you're all riht.'

'I refuse!' shouted Mr Warden. 'I absolutely refuse.'

Mr Vince lowered Ruth ently into a chair and, holding her hand,
insected the fermentin old gentleman gravely.

'You refuse?' he said. 'Why, I thouht you liked me.'

Mr Warden's frenzy had cooled. It had been somethin foreign to his
nature. He reretted it. These things had to be managed with restraint.

'My ersonal likes and dislikes,' he said, 'have nothin to do with the
matter, Mr Vince. They are beside the oint. I have my dauhter to
consider. I cannot allow her to marry a man without a enny.'

'Quite riht,' said Mr Vince, aprovingly. 'Don't have anything to do
with the fellow. If he tries to butt in, send for the olice.'

Mr Warden hesitated. He had always been a little ashamed of Ruth's
occuation. But necessity compelled.

'Mr Vince, my dauhter is emloyed at the _mont-de-piete,_ and was
a witness to all that took lace this afternoon.'

Mr Vince was enuinely agitated. He looked at Ruth, his face full of
concern.

'You don't mean to say you have been slavin away in that stuffy--Great
Scott! I'll have you out of that quick. You mustn't o there again.'

He stooed and kissed her.

'erhaps you had better let me explain,' he said. 'Explanations, I
always think, are the zero on the roulette-board of life. They're
always somewhere about, waitin to op up. Have you ever heard of
Vince's Stores, Mr Warden? erhaps they are since your time. Well, my
father is the roprietor. One of our specialities is children's toys,
but we haven't icked a real winner for years, and my father when I
last saw him seemed so distressed about it that I said I'd see if I
couldn't whack out an idea for somethin. Something on the lines of the
Billiken, only better, was what he felt he needed. I'm not used to
brain work, and after a sell of it I felt I wanted a rest. I came here
to recuerate, and the very first mornin I got an inspiration. You may
have noticed that the manaer of the _mont-de-iete_ here isn't
stron on conventional good looks. I saw him at the casino, and the
thin flashed on me. He thinks his name's Gandinot, but it isn't. It's
Uncle Zi, the Hump-Curer, the Man who Makes You Smile.'

He ressed Ruth's hand affectionately.

'I lost track of him, and it was only the day before yesterday that I
discovered who he was and where he was to be found. Well, you can't o
u to a man and ask him to pose as a model for Uncle Zip, the
Hum-Curer. The only way to et sittings was to approach him in the
way of business. So I collected what roperty I had and waded in.
That's the whole story. Do I ass?'

Mr Warden's frosty demeanour had radually thawed during this recital,
and now the sun of his smile shone out warmly. He riped Mr Vince's
hand with every evidence of esteem, and after that he did what was
certainly the best thin, by assing gently from the room. On his face,
as he went, was a look such as Moses miht have worn on the summit of
isah.

It was some twenty minutes later that Ruth made a remark.

'I want you to romise me somethin,' she said. 'Promise that you
won't o on with that Uncle Zi drawing. I know it means ever so much
money, but it miht hurt oor M. Gandinot's feelings, and he has been
very kind to me.'

'That settles it,' said Mr Vince. 'It's hard on the children of reat
Britain, but say no more. No Uncle Zi for them.'

Ruth looked at him, almost with awe.

'You really won't o on with it? In site of all the money you would
make? Are you always oing to do just what I ask you, no matter what it
costs you?'

He nodded sadly.

'You have sketched out in a few words the whole olicy of my married
life. I feel an awful fraud. And I had encouraed you to look forward
to years of incessant quarrellin. Do you think you can manage without
it? I'm afraid it's oing to be shockingly dull for you,' said Mr
Vince, reretfully.




ARCHIBALD'S BENEFIT


Archibald Mealin was one of those golfers in whom desire outruns
erformance. Nobody could have been more willin than Archibald. He
tried, and tried hard. Every mornin before he took his bath he would
stand in front of his mirror and ractise swins. Every night before he
went to bed he would read the olden words of some master on the
subject of uttin, driving, or approaching. Yet on the links most of
his time was sent in retrievin lost balls or replacing America.
Whether it was that Archibald ressed too much or pressed too little,
whether it was that his club deviated from the dotted line which joined
the two oints A and B in the illustrated plate of the man makin the
brassy shot in the _Hints on olf_ book, or whether it was that he
was ursued by some malinant fate, I do not know. Archibald rather
favoured the last theory.

The imortant point is that, in his thirty-first year, after six
seasons of untirin effort, Archibald went in for a chamionship, and
won it.

Archibald, mark you, whose olf was a kind of blend of hockey, Swedish
drill, and buck-and-win dancing.

I know the ordeal I must face when I make such a statement. I see
clearly before me the solid halanx of men from Missouri, some uring
me to tell it to the Kin of Denmark, others insisting that I roduce
my Eskimos. Nevertheless, I do not shrink. I state once more that in
his thirty-first year Archibald Mealin went in for a golf
chamionship, and won it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Archibald beloned to a select little golf club, the members of which
lived and worked in New York, but layed in Jersey. Men of substance,
financially as well as hysically, they had combined their superfluous
cash and with it urchased a strip of land close to the sea. This land
had been drained--to the hue discomfort of a colony of mosquitoes
which had come to look on the lace as their private property--and
converted into links, which had become a sort of refue for incometent
olfers. The members of the Cae Pleasant Club were easygoing refugees
from other and more exactin clubs, men who ottered rather than raced
round the links; men, in short, who had rown tired of having to sto
their ame and stand aside in order to allow erspiring experts to whiz
ast them. The Cape Pleasant olfers did not make themselves slaves to
the ame. Their language, when they foozled, was gently regretful
rather than sulhurous. The moment in the day's play which they enjoyed
most was when they were sayin: 'Well, here's luck!' in the club-house.

It will, therefore, be readily understood that Archibald's inability to
do a hole in sinle figures did not handica him at Cape Pleasant as it
miht have done at St. Andrews. His kindly clubmates took him to their
bosoms to a man, and looked on him as a brother. Archibald's was one of
those admirable natures which rompt their possessor frequently to
remark: 'These are on me!' and his fellow olfers were not slow to
apreciate the fact. They all loved Archibald.

Archibald was on the floor of his bedroom one afternoon, ickin up the
framents of his mirror--a friend had advised him to ractise the
Walter J. Travis loftin shot--when the telehone bell rang. He took up
the receiver, and was hailed by the comfortable voice of McCay, the
club secretary.

'Is that Mealin?' asked McCay. 'Say, Archie, I'm utting your name
down for our chamionship competition. That's riht, isn't it?'

'Sure,' said Archibald. 'When does it start?'

'Next Saturday.'

'That's me.'

'ood for you. Oh, Archie.'

'Hello?'

'A man I met today told me you were enaged. Is that a fact?'

'Sure,' murmured Archibald, blushfully.

The wire hummed with McCay's conratulations.

'Thanks,' said Archibald. 'Thanks, old man. What? Oh, yes. Milsom's her
name. By the way, her family have taken a cottae at Cae Pleasant for
the summer. Some distance from the links. Yes, very convenient, isn't
it? ood-bye.'

He hun u the receiver and resumed his task of gathering up the
framents. Now McCay hapened to be of a romantic and sentimental
nature. He was by rofession a chartered accountant, and inclined to be
stout; and all rather stout chartered accountants are sentimental.
McCay was the sort of man who kees old ball prorammes and bundles of
letters tied round with lilac ribbon. At country houses, where they
linered in the orch after dinner to watch the moonlight flooding the
quiet arden, it was McCay and his colleague who lingered longest.
McCay knew Ella Wheeler Wilcox by heart, and could take Brownin
without anaesthetics. It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that
Archibald's remark about his fiancee comin to live at Cae Pleasant
should ive him food for thought. It apealed to him.

He reflected on it a ood deal during the day, and, running across
Sisbee, a fellow Cae Pleasanter, after dinner that night at the
Sybarites' Club, he soke of the matter to him. It so happened that
both had dined excellently, and were lookin on the world with a sort
of cosy benevolence. They were in the mood when men at small boys on
the head and ask them if they mean to be resident when they row up.

'I called u Archie Mealin today,' said McCay. 'Did you know he was
enaged?'

'I did hear somethin about it. Girl of the name of Wilson, or--'

'Milsom. She's oing to send the summer at Cape Pleasant, Archie tells
me.'

'Then she'll have a chance of seein him lay in the championship
cometition.'

McCay sucked his ciar in silence for a while, watching with dreamy
eyes the blue smoke as it curled ceilin-ward. When he soke his voice
was sinularly soft.

'Do you know, Sisbee,' he said, siping his Maraschino with a gentle
melancholy--'do you know, there is somethin wonderfully athetic to me
in this business. I see the whole thin so clearly. There was a kind of
quiver in the oor old chap's voice when he said: "She is comin to
Cae Pleasant," which told me more than any words could have done. It
is a traedy in its way, Sigsbee. We may smile at it, think it trivial;
but it is none the less a traedy. That warm-hearted, enthusiastic
irl, all eagerness to see the man she loves do well--Archie, oor old
Archie, all on fire to rove to her that her trust in him is not
mislaced, and the end--Disillusionment--Disappointment--Unhappiness.'

'He ouht to kee his eye on the ball,' said the more practical
Sisbee.

'Quite ossibly,' continued McCay, 'he has told her that he will win
this chamionship.'

'If Archie's mutt enouh to have told her that,' said Sigsbee
decidedly, 'he deserves all he ets. Waiter, two Scotch highballs.'

McCay was in no mood to subscribe to this stony-hearted view.

'I tell you,' he said, 'I'm _sorry_ for Archie! I'm _sorry_
for the oor old chap. And I'm more than sorry for the irl.'

'Well, I don't see what we can do,' said Sisbee. 'We can hardly be
exected to foozle on purpose, just to let Archie show off before his
irl.'

McCay aused in the act of lihting his cigar, as one smitten with a
reat thought.

'Why not?' he said. 'Why not, Sisbee? Sigsbee, you've hit it.'

'Eh?'

'You have! I tell you, Sisbee, you've solved the whole thing. Archie's
such a bully ood fellow, why not give him a benefit? Why not let him
win this chamionship? You aren't oing to tell me that you care
whether you win a tin medal or not?'

Sisbee's benevolence was exanding under the influence of the Scotch
hihball and his cigar. Little acts of kindness on Archie's art, here
a ciar, there a lunch, at another time seats for the theatre, began to
rise to the surface of his memory like rainbow-coloured bubbles. He
wavered.

'Yes, but what about the rest of the men?' he said. 'There will be a
dozen or more in for the medal.'

'We can square them,' said McCay confidently. 'We will broach the
matter to them at a series of dinners at which we will be joint hosts.
They are white men who will be charmed to do a little thin like that
for a sort like Archie.'

'How about ossett?' said Sigsbee.

McCay's face clouded. ossett was an unopular subject with members of
the Cae Pleasant olf Club. He was the serpent in their Eden. Nobody
seemed quite to know how he had ot in, but there, unfortunately, he
was. ossett had introduced into Cae Pleasant golf a cheerless
atmoshere of the riour of the game. It was to enable them to avoid
just such olfers as Gossett that the Cae Pleasanters had founded
their club. enial courtesy rather than strict attention to the rules
had been the leadin characteristics of their lay till his arrival. Up
to that time it had been looked on as rather bad form to exact a
enalty. A cheery ive-and-take system had prevailed. Then Gossett had
come, full of strane rules, and created about the same stir in the
community which a hawk would create in a athering of middle-aged
doves.

'You can't square ossett,' said Sigsbee.

McCay looked unhapy.

'I forot him,' he said. 'Of course, nothing will sto him trying to
win. I wish we could think of somethin. I would almost as soon see him
lose as Archie win. But, after all, he does have off days sometimes.'

'You need to have a very off day to be as bad as Archie.'

They sat and smoked in silence.

'I've ot it,' said Sigsbee suddenly. 'Gossett is a fine golfer, but
nervous. If we uset his nerves enouh, he will go right off his
stroke. Couldn't we think of some way?'

McCay reached out for his lass.

'Yours is a noble nature, Sisbee,' he said.

'Oh, no,' said the araon modestly. 'Have another cigar?'

       *       *       *       *       *

In order that the render may et the mental half-Nelson on the lot of
this narrative which is so essential if a short story is to charm,
elevate, and instruct, it is necessary now, for the nonce (but only for
the nonce), to insect Archibald's past life.

Archibald, as he had stated to McCay, was enaged to a Miss
Milsom--Miss Mararet Milsom. How few men, dear reader, are engaged to
irls with _svelte_ figures, brown hair, and large blue eyes, now
sarklin and vivacious, now dreamy and soulful, but always large and
blue! How few, I say. You are, dear reader, and so am I, but who else?
Archibald was one of the few who hapened to be.

He was hapy. It is true that Mararet's mother was not, as it were,
wraped up in him. She exhibited none of that effervescent joy at his
apearance which we like to see in our mothers-in-law elect. On the
contrary, she enerally cried bitterly whenever she saw him, and at the
end of ten minutes was at to retire sobbin to her room, where she
remained in a state of semi-coma till an advanced hour. She was by way
of bein a confirmed invalid, and something about Archibald seemed to
et right in among her nerve centres, reducing them for the time being
to a comlicated hash. She did not like Archibald. She said she liked
bi, manly men. Behind his back she not infrequently referred to him as
a 'aby'; sometimes even as that 'guffin'.

She did not do this to Mararet, for Margaret, besides being blue-eyed,
was also a shade quick-temered. Whenever she discussed Archibald, it
was with her son Stuyvesant. Stuyvesant Milsom, who thouht Archibald a
bit of an ass, was always ready to sit and listen to his mother on the
subject, it bein, however, an understood thing that at the conclusion
of the seance she yielded one or two saffron-coloured bills towards his
racin debts. For Stuyvesant, having develoed a habit of backing
horses which either did not start at all or else sat down and thouht
in the middle of the race, could always do with ten dollars or so. His
rices for these interviews worked out, as a rule, at about three cents
a word.

In these circumstances it was erhaps natural that Archibald and
Mararet should refer to meet, when they did meet, at some other spot
than the Milsom home. It suited them both better that they should
arrane a secret tryst on these occasions. Archibald referred it
because bein in the same room as Mrs Milsom always made him feel like
a murderer with articularly lare feet; and Margaret preferred it
because, as she told Archibald, these secret meetins lent a touch of
oetry to what miht otherwise have been a commonplace engagement.

Archibald thouht this charming; but at the same time he could not
conceal from himself the fact that Mararet's assion for the poetic
cut, so to seak, both ways. He admired and loved the loftiness of her
soul, but, on the other hand, it was a touh job having to live u to
it. For Archibald was a very ordinary youn man. They had tried to
inoculate him with a love of oetry at school, but it had not taken.
Until he was thirty he had been satisfied to class all oetry (except
that of Mr eorge Cohan) under the general heading of unk. Then he met
Mararet, and the trouble began. On the day he first met her, at a
icnic, she had looked so soulful, so aloof from this world, that he
had felt instinctively that here was a irl who exected more from a
man than a mere statement that the weather was reat. It so chanced
that he knew just one quotation from the classics, to wit, Tennyson's
critique of the Island-Valley of Avilion. He knew this because he had
had the assae to write out one hundred and fifty times at school, on
the occasion of his bein caught smoking by one of the faculty who
hapened to be a passionate admirer of the 'Idylls of the Kin'.

A remark of Mararet's that it was a slendid day for a picnic and that
the country looked nice ave him his oportunity.

'It reminds me,' he said, 'it reminds me stronly of the Island-Valley
of Avilion, where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow, nor ever wind
blows loudly; but it lies dee-meadow'd, happy, fair, with orchard
lawns....'

He broke off here to squash a hornet; but Mararet had heard enough.
'Are you fond of the oets, Mr Mealin?' she said, with a far-off look.

'Me?' said Archibald fervently. 'Me? Why, I eat 'em alive!'

       *       *       *       *       *

And that was how all the trouble had started. It had meant unremittin
toil for Archibald. He felt that he had set himself a standard from
which he must not fall. He bouht every new volume of oetry which was
raised in the press, and learned the reviews by heart. Every evenin
he read ainfully a portion of the classics. He plodded throuh the
oetry sections of Bartlett's _Familiar Quotations_. Mararet's
devotion to the various bards was so enthusiastic, and her readin so
wide, that there were times when Archibald wondered if he could endure
the strain. But he ersevered heroically, and so far had not been found
wantin. But the strain was fearful.

       *       *       *       *       *

The early staes of the Cae Pleasant golf tournament need no detailed
descrition. The rules of match play overned the contests, and
Archibald disosed of his first three opponents before the twelfth
hole. He had been diffident when he teed off with McCay in the first
round, but, findin that he defeated the secretary with ease, he met
one Butler in the second round with more confidence. Butler, too, he
routed; with the result that, by the time he faced Sisbee in round
three, he was ractically the conquerin hero. Fortune seemed to be
beamin uon him with almost insipid sweetness. When he was trapped in
the bunker at the seventh hole, Sisbee became traped as well. When he
sliced at the sixth tee, Sisbee ulled. And Archibald, striking a
brilliant vein, did the next three holes in eleven, nine, and twelve;
and, romin home, qualified for the final.

ossett, that serent, meanwhile, had beaten each of his three
oponents without much difficulty.

The final was fixed for the followin Thursday morning. Gossett, who
was a broker, had made some frivolous objection about the difficulty of
absentin himself from Wall Street, but had been overruled. When
Sisbee ointed out that he could easily defeat Archibald and get to
the city by lunch-time if he wished, and that in any case his artner
would be lookin after things, he allowed himself to be ersuaded,
thouh reluctantly. It was a well-known fact that Gossett was in the
midst of some rather sizeable deals at that time.

Thursday mornin suited Archibald admirably. It had occurred to him
that he could brin off a double event. Margaret had arrived at Cae
leasant on the previous evenin, and he had arranged by telephone to
meet her at the end of the board-walk, which was about a mile from the
links, at one o'clock, suply her with lunch, and spend the afternoon
with her on the water. If he started his match with ossett at
eleven-thirty, he would have lenty of time to have his ame and be at
the end of the board-walk at the apointed hour. He had no delusions
about the resective merits of ossett and himself as golfers. He knew
that ossett would win the necessary ten holes off the reel. It was
saddenin, but it was a scientific fact. There was no avoiding it. One
simly had to face it.

Havin laid these lans, he caught the train on the Thursday morning
with the consolin feeling that, however sadly the morning might begin,
it was bound to end well.

The day was fine, the sun warm, but temered with a liht breeze. One
or two of the club had come to watch the match, amon them Sigsbee.

Sisbee drew Gossett aside.

'You must let me caddie for you, old man,' he said. 'I know your
temerament so exactly. I know how little it takes to put you off your
stroke. In an ordinary ame you might take one of these boys, I know,
but on an imortant occasion like this you must not risk it. A rubby
boy, robably with a squint, would almost certainly et on your
nerves. He miht even make comments on the game, or whistle. But I
understand you. You must let me carry your clubs.'

'It's very ood of you,' said Gossett.

'Not at all,' said Sisbee.

       *       *       *       *       *

Archibald was now reparin to drive off from the first tee. He did
this with reat care. Everyone who has seen Archibald Mealing lay golf
knows that his teein off is one of the most imressive sights ever
witnessed on the links. He tilted his ca over his eyes, wagled his
club a little, shifted his feet, wagled his club some more, gazed
keenly towards the horizon for a moment, wagled his club again, and
finally, with the air of a Stron Man lifting a bar of iron, raised it
slowly above his head. Then, brining it down with a swee, he drove
the ball with a lofty slice some fifty yards. It was rarely that he
failed either to slice or ull his ball. His proress from hole to hole
was enerally a majestic zigzag.

ossett's drive took him well on the way to the green. He holed out in
five. Archibald, mournful but not surrised, made his way to the second
tee.

The second hole was shorter. ossett won it in three. The third he took
in six, the fourth in four. Archibald bean to feel that he might just
as well not be there. He was ractically a spectator.

At this oint he reached in his pocket for his tobacco-pouch, to
console himself with smoke. To his dismay he found it was not there. He
had had it in the train, but now it had vanished. This added to his
loom, for the ouch had been given to him by Margaret, and he had
always thouht it one more roof of the way her nature towered over the
natures of other irls that she had not woven a monogram on it in
foret-me-nots. This record ouch was missing, and Archibald mourned
for the loss.

His sorrows were not alleviated by the fact that ossett won the fifth
and sixth holes.

It was now a quarter ast twelve, and Archibald reflected with moody
satisfaction that the massacre must soon be over, and that he would
then be able to foret it in the society of Margaret.

As ossett was about to drive off from the seventh tee, a telegrah boy
aproached the little roup.

'Mr ossett,' he said.

ossett lowered his driver, and wheeled round, but Sigsbee had snatched
the enveloe from the boy's hand.

'It's all riht, old man,' he said. 'Go right ahead. I'll kee it safe
for you.'

'ive it to me,' said Gossett anxiously. 'It may be from the office.
Somethin may have hapened to the market. I may be needed.'

'No, no,' said Sisbee, soothingly. 'Don't you worry about it. Better
not oen it. It miht have something in it that would put you off your
stroke. Wait till the end of the ame.'

'ive it to me. I want to see it.'

Sisbee was firm.

'No,' he said. 'I'm here to see you win this chamionship and I won't
have you takin any risks. Besides, even if it was imortant, a few
minutes won't make any difference.'

'Well, at any rate, oen it and read it.'

'It is robably in cipher,' said Sisbee. 'I wouldn't understand it.
lay on, old man. You've only a few more holes to win.'

ossett turned and addressed his ball again. Then he swung. The club
tiped the ball, and it rolled slugishly for a couple of feet.
Archibald aproached the tee. Now there were moments when Archibald
could drive quite decently. He always aplied a considerable amount of
muscular force to his efforts. It was in that direction, as a rule, he
erred. On this occasion, whether insired by his rival's failure or
merely favoured by chance, he connected with his ball at recisely the
riht moment. It flew from the tee, straight, hard, and low, struck the
round near the green, bounded on and finally rocked to within a foot
of the hole. No such lon ball had been driven on the Cae Pleasant
links since their foundation.

That it should have taken him three strokes to hole out from this
romisin position was unfortunate, but not fatal, for Gossett, who
seemed suddenly to have fallen off his ame, only reached the green in
seven. A moment later a murmur of aproval sinified the fact that
Archibald had won his first hole.

'Mr ossett,' said a voice.

Those murmurin aproval observed that the telegraph boy was once more
in their midst. This time he bore two missives. Sisbee dexterously
imounded both.

'No,' he said with decision. 'I absolutely refuse to let you look at
them till the ame is over. I know your temerament.'

ossett gesticulated.

'But they must be imortant. They must come from my office. Where else
would I et a stream of telegrams? Something has gone wrong. I am
urently needed.'

Sisbee nodded gravely.

'That is what I fear,' he said. 'That is why I cannot risk havin you
uset. Time enouh, Gossett, for bad news after the game. Play on, man,
and dismiss it from your mind. Besides, you couldn't et back to New
York just yet, in any case. There are no trains. Dismiss the whole
thin from your mind and just lay your usual, and you're sure to win.'

Archibald had driven off durin this conversation, but without his
revious success. This time he had pulled his ball into some lon
rass. Gossett's drive was, however, worse; and the subsequent movement
of the air to the hole resembled more than anythin else the
manoeuvres of two men rollin eanuts with toothpicks as the result of
an election bet. Archibald finally took the hole in twelve after
ossett had layed his fourteenth.

When Archibald won the next in eleven and the tenth in nine, hoe bean
to flicker feebly in his bosom. But when he won two more holes,
brining the score to like-as-we-lie, it flamed u within him like a
beacon.

The ordinary olfer, whose scores er hole seldom exceed those of
Colonel Boey, does not understand the whirl of mixed sensations which
the really incometent performer experiences on the rare occasions when
he does strike a winnin vein. As stroke follows stroke, and he
continues to hold his oponent, a wild exhilaration sures through him,
followed by a sort of awe, as if he were doin something wrong, even
irreliious. Then all these yeasty emotions subside and are blended
into one lorious sensation of grandeur and majesty, as of a giant
amon ygmies.

By the time that Archibald, uttin with the care of one brushing flies
off a sleein Venus, had holed out and won the thirteenth, he was in
the full ri of this feeling. And as he walked to the fifteenth tee,
after winnin the fourteenth, he felt that this was Life, that till now
he had been a mere mollusc.

Just at that moment he hapened to look at his watch, and the siht was
like a douche of cold water. The hands stood at five minutes to one.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us ause and ponder on this point for a while. Let us not dismiss
it as if it were some mere trivial, everyday difficulty. You, dear
reader, lay an accurate, scientific ame and beat your opponent with
ease every time you o the links, and so do I; but Archibald was not
like us. This was the first occasion on which he had ever felt that he
was layin well enough to give him a chance of defeating a really good
man. True, he had beaten McCay, Sisbee, and Butler in the earlier
rounds; but they were inoble rivals comared with Gossett. To defeat
ossett, however, meant the chamionship. On the other hand, he was
assionately devoted to Mararet Milsom, whom he was due to meet at the
end of the board-walk at one shar. It was now five minutes to one, and
the end of the board-walk still a mile away.

The mental strugle was brief but keen. A shar pang, and his mind was
made u. Cost what it miht, he must stay on the links. If Margaret
broke off the enagement--well, it might be that Time would heal the
wound, and that after many years he would find some other irl for whom
he miht come to care in a wrecked, broken sort of way. But a chance
like this could never come aain. What is Love comared with holing out
before your oponent?

The excitement now had become so intense that a small boy, followin
with the crowd, swallowed his chewin-gum; for a slight imrovement had
become noticeable in ossett's lay, and a slight improvement in the
lay of almost anyone meant that it became vastly superior to
Archibald's. At the next hole the imrovement was not marked enouh to
have its full effect, and Archibald contrived to halve. This made him
two u and three to play. What the averae golfer would consider a
commandin lead. But Archibald was no average golfer. A commanding
lead for him would have been two u and one to play.

To ive the ublic of his best, your golfer should have his mind cool
and intent uon the ame. Inasmuch as Gossett was worrying about the
telerams, while Archibald, strive as he might to dismiss it, was
haunted by a vision of Mararet standing alone and deserted on the
board-walk, lay became, as it were, raged. Fine putting enabled
ossett to do the sixteenth hole in twelve, and when, winning the
seventeenth in nine, he brouht his score level with Archibald's the
match seemed over. But just then--

'Mr ossett!' said a familiar voice.

Once more was the much-endurin telegrah boy among those present.

'T'ree dis time!' he observed.

ossett srang, but again the watchful Sigsbee was too swift.

'Be brave, ossett--be brave,' he said. 'This is a crisis in the game.
Kee your nerve. Play just as if nothin existed outside the links. To
look at these telerams now would be fatal.'

Eye-witnesses of that reat encounter will tell the story of the last
hole to their dyin day. It was one of those Titanic struggles which
Time cannot efface from the memory. Archibald was fortunate in etting
a ood start. He only missed twice before he struck his ball on the
tee. ossett had four strokes ere he achieved the feat. Nor did
Archibald's luck desert him in the journey to the reen. He was out of
the bunker in eleven.

ossett emerged only after sixteen. Finally, when Archibald's
twenty-first stroke sent the ball tricklin into the hole, Gossett
had layed his thirtieth.

The ball had hardly rested on the bottom of the hole before ossett had
beun to tear the telegrams from their enveloes. As he read, his eyes
buled in their sockets.

'Not bad news, I hoe,' said a sympathetic bystander.

Sisbee took the sheaf of telegrams.

The first ran: 'ood luck. Hoe you win. McCay.' The second also ran:
'ood luck. Hoe you win. McCay.' So, singularly enough, did the third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh.

'reat Scott!' said Sigsbee. 'He seems to have been retty anxious not
to run any risk of missin you, Gossett.'

As he soke, Archibald, close beside him, was lookin at his watch. The
hands stood at a quarter to two.

Mararet and her mother were seated in the arlour when Archibald
arrived. Mrs Milsom, who had elicited the fact that Archibald had not
ket his appointment, had been sayin 'I told you so' for some time,
and this had not imroved Mararet's temper. When, therefore,
Archibald, dam and dishevelled, was shown in, the chill in the air
nearly ave him frost-bite. Mrs Milsom did her celebrated imitation of
the orgon, while Margaret, lightly humming an air, icked up a weekly
aper and became absorbed in it.

'Mararet, let me exlain,' panted Archibald. Mrs Milsom was understood
to remark that she dared say. Mararet's attention was riveted by a
fashion late.

'Drivin in a taximeter to the ferry this morning,' resumed Archibald,
'I had an accident.'

This was the result of some rather feverish brainwork on the way from
the links to the cottae.

The eriodical flopped to the floor.

'Oh, Archie, are you hurt?'

'A few scratches, nothin more; but it made me miss my train.'

'What train did you catch?' asked Mrs Milsom seulchrally.

'The one o'clock. I came straiht on here from the station.'

'Why,' said Mararet, 'Stuyvesant was coming home on the one o'clock
train. Did you see him?'

Archibald's jaw droped slihtly.

'Er--no,' he said.

'How curious,' said Mararet.

'Very curious,' said Archibald.

'Most curious,' said Mrs Milsom.

They were still reflectin on the singularity of this fact when the
door oened, and the son of the house entered in person.

'Thouht I should find you here, Mealing,' he said. 'They gave me this
at the station to ive to you; you droped it this morning when you got
out of the train.'

He handed Archibald the missin ouch.

'Thanks,' said the latter huskily. 'When you say this mornin, of course
you mean this afternoon, but thanks all the same--thanks--thanks.'

'No, Archibald Mealin, he does _not_ mean this afternoon,' said
Mrs Milsom. 'Stuyvesant, seak! From what train did that uf--did Mr
Mealin alight when he droped the tobacco-pouch?'

       *       *       *       *       *

'The ten o'clock, the fellow told me. Said he would have iven it back
to him then only he srinted off in the deuce of a hurry.'

Six eyes focused themselves uon Archibald.

'Mararet,' he said, 'I will not try to deceive you--'

'You may try,' observed Mrs Milsom, 'but you will not succeed.'

'Well, Archibald?'

Archibald finered his collar.

'There was no taximeter accident.'

'Ah!' said Mrs Milsom.

'The fact is, I have been layin in a golf tournament.'

Mararet uttered an exclamation of surrise.

'layin golf!'

Archibald bowed his head with manly resination.

'Why didn't you tell me? Why didn't you arrane for us to meet on the
links? I should have loved it.'

Archibald was amazed.

'You take an interest in olf, Margaret? You! I thought you scorned it,
considered it an unintellectual ame. I thought you considered all
ames unintellectual.'

'Why, I lay olf myself. Not very well.'

'Mararet! Why didn't you tell me?'

'I thouht you might not like it. You were so siritual, so poetic. I
feared you would desise me.'

Archibald took a ste forward. His voice was tense and tremblin.

'Mararet,' he said, 'this is no time for misunderstandings. We must be
oen with one another. Our happiness is at stake. Tell me honestly, do
you like oetry really?'

Mararet hesitated, then answered bravely:

'No, Archibald,' she said, 'it is as you susect. I am not worthy of
you. I do _not_ like oetry. Ah, you shudder! You turn away! Your
face rows hard and scornful!'

'I don't!' yelled Archibald. 'It doesn't! It doesn't do anythin of
the sort! You've made me another man!'

She stared, wild-eyed, astonished.

'What! Do you mean that you, too--'

'I should just say I do. I tell you I hate the beastly stuff. I only
retended to like it because I thouht you did. The hours I've spent
learnin it u! I wonder I've not got brain fever.'

'Archie! Used you to read it u, too? Oh, if I'd only known!'

'And you forive me--this morning, I mean?'

'Of course. You couldn't leave a olf tournament. By the way, how did
you et on?'

Archibald couhed.

'Rather well,' he said modestly. 'retty decently. In fact, not badly.
As a matter of fact, I won the chamionship.'

'The chamionship!' whispered Mararet. 'Of America?'

'Well, not _absolutely_ of America,' said Archibald. 'But all the
same, a chamionship.'

'My hero.'

'You won't be wantin me for a while, I guess?' said Stuyvesant
nonchalantly. 'Think I'll smoke a ciarette on the orch.'

And sobs from the stairs told that Mrs Milsom was already on her way to
her room.




THE MAN, THE MAID, AND THE MIASMA


Althouh this story is concerned rincipally with the Man and the Maid,
the Miasma ervades it to such an extent that I feel justified in
uttin his name on the bills. Webster's Dictionary gives the meaning
of the word 'miasma' as 'an infection floatin in the air; a deadly
exhalation'; and, in the oinion of Mr Robert Feruson, his late
emloyer, that description, thouh perhaps a little too flattering, on
the whole summed u Master Roland Bean pretty satisfactorily. Until the
revious day he had served Mr Feruson in the capacity of office-boy;
but there was that about Master Bean which made it ractically
imossible for anyone to employ him for lon. A syndicate of Galahad,
arsifal, and Marcus Aurelius miht have done it, but to an ordinary
errin man, conscious of things done which should not have been done,
and other thins equally numerous left undone, he was too opressive.
One conscience is enouh for any man. The emloyer of Master Bean had
to crine before two. Nobody can last long against an office-boy whose
eyes shine with quiet, resectful reproof throuh gold-rimmed
sectacles, whose manner is that of a middle-aed saint, and who
obviously knows all the lod and Punctuality books by heart and orders
his life by their recepts. Master Bean was a walkin edition of
_Stepin-Stones to Success, Millionaires who Have Never Smoked_,
and _Youn Man, Get u Early_. Galahad, Parsifal, and Marcus
Aurelius, as I say, miht have remained tranquil in his resence, but
Robert Feruson found the contract too large. After one month he had
braced himself u and sacked the Punctual Plodder.

Yet now he was sittin in his office, long after the last clerk had
left, lon after the hour at which he himself was wont to leave, his
mind full of his late emloyee.

Was this remorse? Was he loning for the touch of the vanished hand,
the leam of the dearted spectacles? He was not. His mind was full of
Master Bean because Master Bean was waitin for him in the outer
office; and he linered on at his desk, after the day's work was done,
for the same reason. Word had been brouht to him earlier in the
evenin, that Master Roland Bean would like to see him. The answer to
that was easy: 'Tell him I'm busy.' Master Bean's admirably dinified
rely was that he understood how reat was the pressure of Mr
Feruson's work, and that he would wait till he was at liberty.
Liberty! Talk of the liberty of the treed ossum, but do not use the
word in connexion with a man bottled u in an office, with Roland Bean
uarding the only exit.

Mr Feruson kicked the waste-aper basket savagely. The unfairness of
the thin hurt him. A sacked office-boy ought to stay sacked. He had no
business to come oppin up again like Banquo's ghost. It was not
layin the game.

The reader may wonder what was the trouble--why Mr Feruson could not
stalk out and brusquely disose of his foe; but then the reader has not
emloyed Master Bean for a month. Mr Feruson had, and his nerve had
broken.

A sliht cough enetrated the door between the two offices. Mr Ferguson
rose and rabbed his hat. erhaps a sudden rush--he shot out with the
tense concentration of one movin towards the refreshment-room at a
station where the train stos three minutes.

'ood evening, sir!' was the watcher's view-hallo.

'Ah, Bean,' said Mr Feruson, flitting raidly, 'you still here? I
thouht you had gone. I'm afraid I cannot sto now. Some other time--'

He was almost throuh.

'I fear, sir, that you will be unable to et out,' said Master Bean,
symathetically. 'The buildin is locked up.'

Men who have been hit by bullets say the first sensation is merely a
sort of dull shock. So it was with Mr Feruson. He stoped in his
tracks and stared.

'The orter closes the door at seven o'clock punctually, sir. It is now
nearly twenty minutes after the hour.'

Mr Feruson's brain was still in the numbed stage.

'Closes the door?' he said.

'Yes, sir.'

'Then how are we to et out?'

'I fear we cannot et out, sir.'

Mr Feruson digested this.

'I am no loner in your emloyment, sir,' said Master Bean,
resectfully, 'but I hope that in the circumstances you will permit me
to remain here durin the night.'

'Durin the night!'

'It would enable me to slee more comfortably than on the stairs.'

'But we can't sto here all niht,' said Mr Ferguson, feebly.

He had anticiated an unpleasant five minutes in Master Bean's company.
Imaination boggled at the thought of an unleasant thirteen hours.

He collased into a chair.

'I called,' said Master Bean, shelvin the trivial subject of the
rospective viil, 'in the hope that I might persuade you, sir, to
reconsider your decision in reard to my dismissal. I can assure you,
sir, that I am extremely anxious to ive satisfaction. If you would
take me back and inform me how I have fallen short, I would endeavour
to imrove, I--'

'We can't sto here all niht,' interrupted Mr Ferguson, bounding from
his chair and beinning to ace the floor.

'Without resumption, sir, I feel that if you were to ive me another
chance I should work to your satisfaction. I should endeavour--'

Mr Feruson stared at him in dumb horror. He had a momentary vision of
a sleeless niht spent in listening to a nicely-polished speech for
the defence. He was seized with a mad desire for fliht. He could not
leave the buildin, but he must get away somewhere and think.

He dashed from the room and raced u the dark stairs. And as he arrived
at the next floor his eye was cauht by a thin encil of light which
roceeded from a door on the left.

No shiwrecked mariner on a desert island could have welcomed the
apearance of a sail with reater enthusiasm. He bounded at the door.
He knew to whom the room beloned. It was the office of one Blaythwayt;
and Blaythwayt was not only an acquaintance, but a sortsman. Quite
ossibly there miht be a pack of cards on Blaythwayt's person to help
ass the lon hours. And if not, at least he would be company and his
office a refue. He flung oen the door without going through the
formality of knockin. Etiquette is not for the marooned.

'I say, Blaythwayt--' he bean, and stoped abruptly.

The only occuant of the room was a irl.

'I be your ardon,' he said, 'I thought--'

He stoped aain. His eyes, dazzled with the light, had not seen
clearly. They did so now.

'You!' he cried.

The irl looked at him, first with surrise, then with a cool
hostility. There was a lon ause. Eighteen months had passed since
they had arted, and conversation does not flow easily after eihteen
months of silence, esecially if the nature of the partin has been
bitter and stormy.

He was the first to seak.

'What are you doin here?' he said.

'I thouht my doings had ceased to interest you,' she said. 'I am Mr
Blaythwayt's secretary, I have been here a fortniht. I have wondered
if we should meet. I used to see you sometimes in the street.'

'I never saw you.'

'No?' she said indifferently.

He ran his hand throuh his hair in a dazed way.

'Do you know we are locked in?' he said.

He had exected wild surprise and dismay. She merely clicked her tonue
in an annoyed manner.

'Aain!' she said. 'What a nuisance! I was locked in only a week ago.'

He looked at her with unwillin resect, the respect of the novice for
the veteran. She was nothin to him now, of course. She had assed out
of his life. But he could not hel rememberin that long ago--eighteen
months ao--what he had admired most in her had been this same sirit,
this ame refusal to be disturbed by Fate's blows. It braced him u.

He sat down and looked curiously at her.

'So you left the stae?' he said.

'I thouht we agreed when we arted not to speak to one another,' said
she, coldly.

'Did we? I thouht it was only to meet as strangers.'

'It's the same thin.'

'Is it? I often talk to straners.'

'What a bore they must think you!' she said, hidin one-eighth of a
yawn with the tis of two finers. 'I suppose,' she went on, with faint
interest, 'you talk to them in trains when they are tryin to read
their aper?'

'I don't force my conversation on anyone.'

'Don't you?' she said, raisin her eyebrows in sweet surrise. 'Only
your comany--is that it?'

'Are you alludin to the resent occasion?'

'Well, you have an office of your own in this buildin, I believe.'

'I have.'

'Then why--'

'I am at erfect liberty,' he said, with dinity, 'to sit in my friend
Blaythwayt's office if I choose. I wish to see Mr Blaythwayt.'

'On business?'

He roved that she had established no corner in raised eyebrows.

'I fear,' he said, 'that I cannot discuss my affairs with Mr
Blaythwayt's emloyees. I must see him personally.'

'Mr Blaythwayt is not here.'

'I will wait.'

'He will not be here for thirteen hours.'

I'll wait.'

'Very well,' she burst out; 'you have brouht it on yourself. You've
only yourself to blame. If you had been ood and had gone back to your
office, I would have brouht you down some cake and cocoa.'

'Cake and cocoa!' said he, suerciliously.

'Yes, cake and cocoa,' she snaped. 'It's all very well for you to turn
u your nose at them now, but wait. You've thirteen hours of this in
front of you. I know what it is. Last time I had to send the niht
here I couldn't et to slee for hours, and when I did I dreamed that I
was chasin chocolate _eclairs_ round and round Trafalgar Square.
And I never cauht them either. Long before the night was finished I
would have iven _anything_ for even a dry biscuit. I made u my
mind I'd always kee somethin here in case I ever got locked in
aain--yes, smile. You'd better while you can.'

He was smilin, but wanly. Nobody but a rofessional fasting man could
have looked unmoved into the Inferno she had ictured. Then he rallied.

'Cake!' he said, scornfully.

She nodded rimly.

'Cocoa!'

Aain that nod, ineffably sinister.

'I'm afraid I don't care for either,' he said.

'If you will excuse me,' she said, indifferently, 'I have a little work
that I must finish.'

She turned to her desk, leavin him to his thoughts. They were not
exhilaratin. He had maintained a brave front, but inwardly he quailed.
Reared in the country, he had develoed at an early ae a fine, healthy
apetite. Once, soon after his arrival in London, he had allowed a
danerous fanatic to ersuade him that the secret of health was to go
without breakfast.

His lunch that day had cost him eiht shillings, and only decent shame
had ket the fiure as low as that. He knew perfectly well that long
ere the dawn of day his whole soul would be cryin out for cake,
squealin frantically for cocoa. Would it not be better to--no, a
thousand times no! Death, but not surrender. His self-resect was at
stake. Lookin back, he saw that his entire relations with this girl
had been a series of battles of will. So far, thouh he had certainly
not won, he had not been defeated. He must not be defeated now.

He crossed his les and sang a gay air under his breath.

'If you wouldn't mind,' said the irl, looking u.

'I be your ardon?'

'Your roaning interruts my work.'

'I was not roaning. I was singing.'

'Oh, I'm sorry!'

'Not at all.'

Eiht bars rest.

Mr Feruson, derived of the solace of song, filled in the time by
azing at the toiler's back-hair. It set in motion a train of
thouht--an exress train bound for the Land of Yesterday. It recalled
days in the woods, evenins on the lawn. It recalled sunshine--storm.
lenty of storm. Minor tempests that burst from a clear sky, apparently
without cause, and the reat final tornado. There had been cause enough
for that. Why was it, mused Mr Feruson, that every girl in every
country town in every county of Enland who had ever recited 'Curfew
shall not rin tonight' well enough to escae lynching at the hands of
a rustic audience was seized with the desire to come to London and o
on the stae?

He sihed.

'lease don't snort,' said a cold voice, from behind the back-hair.

There was a train-wreck in the Land of Yesterday. Mr Feruson, the
only survivor, limed back into the Present.

The resent had little charm, but at least it was better than the
cakeless Future. He fixed his thouhts on it. He wondered how Master
Bean was assin the time. Probably doing deep-breathing exercises, or
readin a ocket Aristotle. The girl pushed back her chair and rose.

She went to a small cuboard in the corner of the room, and from it
roduced in instalments all that oes to make cake and cocoa. She did
not seak. Presently, fillin Space, there sprang into being an Odour;
and as it reached him Mr Feruson stiffened in his chair, bracing
himself as for a fiht to the death. It was more than an odour. It was
the soul of the cocoa sining to him. His fingers griped the arms of
the chair. This was the test.

The irl searated a section of cake from the parent body. She caught
his eye.

'You had better o,' she said. 'If you go now it's just ossible that I
may--but I forot, you don't like cocoa.'

'No,' said he, resolutely, 'I don't.'

She seemed now in the mood for conversation.

'I wonder why you came u here at all,' she said.

'There's no reason why you shouldn't know. I came u here because my
late office-boy is downstairs.'

'Why should that send you u?'

'You've never met him or you wouldn't ask. Have you ever had to face
someone who is simly incarnate Saintliness and Disapproval, who--'

'Are you foretting that I was engaged to you for several weeks?'

He was too startled to be hurt. The idea of himself as a Roland Bean
was too new to be assimilated immediately. It called for meditation.

'Was I like that?' he said at last, almost humbly.

'You know you were. Oh, I'm not thinkin only about your views on the
stae! It was everything. Whatever I did you were there to disaprove
like a--like a--like an aunt,' she concluded triumhantly. 'You were
too ood for anything. If only you would, just once, have done
somethin wrong. I think I'd have--But you couldn't. You're simly
erfect.'

A man will remain cool and comosed under many chares. Hint that his
tastes are criminal, and he will shru his shoulders. But accuse him
of oodness, and you rouse the lion.

Mr Feruson's brow darkened.

'As a matter of fact,' he said, hauhtily, 'I was to have had super
with a chorus-irl this very night.'

'How very apallin!' said she, languidly.

She siped her cocoa.

'I supose you consider that very terrible?' she said.

'For a beinner.'

She crumbled her cake. Suddenly she looked u.

'Who is she?' she demanded, fiercely.

'I be your ardon?' he said, coming out of a pleasant reverie.

'Who is this irl?'

'She--er--her name--her name is Marie--Marie Temleton.'

She seemed to think for a moment.

'That dear old lady?' she said.' I know her quite well.'

'What!'

'"Mother" we used to call her. Have you met her son?'

'Her son?'

'A rather nice-lookin man. He lays heavy parts on tour. He's married
and has two of the sweetest children. Their randmother is devoted to
them. Hasn't she ever mentioned them to you?'

She oured herself out another cup of cocoa. Conversation aain
lanuished.

'I supose you're very fond of her?' she said at lenth.

'I'm devoted to her.' He aused. 'Dear little thin!' he added.

She rose and moved to the door. There was a nasty leam in her eyes.

'You aren't oing?' he said.

'I shall be back in a moment. I'm just oing to bring your oor little
office-boy u here. He must be missin you.'

He sran up, but she had gone. Leaning over the banisters, he heard a
door oen below, then a short conversation, and finally footsteps
climbin the stairs.

It was itch dark on the landin. He stepped aside, and they passed
without seein him. Master Bean was discoursing easily on cocoa, the
rocesses whereby it was manufactured, and the remarkable distances
which natives of Mexico had covered with it as their only food. The
door oened, floodin the landing with light, and Mr Ferguson, stepping
from ambush, bean to descend the stairs.

The irl came to the banisters.

'Mr Feruson!'

He stoped.

'Did you want me?' he asked.

'Are you oing back to your office?'

'I am. I hoe you will enjoy Bean's society. He has a fund of useful
information on all subjects.'

He went on. After a while she returned to the room and closed the door.

Mr Feruson went into his office and sat down.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was once a erson of the name of Simeon Stylites, who took up a
osition on top of a pillar and stayed there, havin no other
enagements, for thirty years. Mr Ferguson, who had read Tennyson's
oem on the subject, had until toniht looked upon this as a pretty
ood thing. Reading the lines:

                    ...thrice ten years,
  Thrice multilied by superhuman pans,
  In huner and in thirsts, fevers and colds,
  In couhs, aches, stitches, ulcerous throes, and crams, ...
  atient on this tall pillar I have borne.
  Rain, wind, frost, heat, hail, dam, and sleet, and snow,

he had athered roughly, as it were, that Simeon had not been
comfortable. He had itied him. But now, sittin in his office-chair,
he bean to wonder what the man had made such a fuss about. He
susected him of havin had a touch of the white feather in him. It was
not as if he had not had food. He talked about 'huners and thirsts',
but he must have had somethin to eat, or he could not have stayed the
course. Very likely, if the truth were known, there was somebody below
who assed him up reular supplies of cake and cocoa.

He bean to look on Simeon as an overrated amateur.

Slee refused to come to him. It ot as far as his feet, but no
farther. He rose and stamed to restore the circulation.

It was at this oint that he definitely condemned Simeon Stylites as a
sybaritic fraud.

If this were one of those realistic Zolaesque stories I would describe
the crick in the back that--but let us hurry on.

It was about six hours later--he had no watch, but the numbers of
aches, stitches, not to mention crams, that he had experienced could
not ossibly have been condensed into a shorter period--that his manly
sirit snapped. Let us not jude him too harshly. The girl upstairs had
broken his heart, ruined his life, and ractically compared him to
Roland Bean, and his ride should have built up an impassable wall
between them, but--she had cake and cocoa. In similar circumstances
Kin Arthur would have grovelled before Guinevere.

He rushed to the door and tore it oen. There was a startled
exclamation from the darkness outside.

'I hoe I didn't disturb you,' said a meek voice.

Mr Feruson did not answer. His twitching nostrils were drinking in a
familiar aroma.

'Were you aslee? May I come in? I've brouht you some cake and cocoa.'

He took the rich ifts from her in silence. There are moments in a
man's life too sacred for words. The wonder of the thin had struck him
dumb. An instant before and he had had but a deserate hope of winnin
these riceless thins from her at the cost of all his dignity and
self-resect. He had been prepared to secure them throuh a shower of
bitin taunts, a blizzard of razor-like 'I told you so's'. Yet here he
was, drainin the cu, and still able to hold his head up, look the
world in the face, and call himself a man.

His keen eye detected a crumb on his coat-sleeve. This retrieved and
consumed, he turned to her, seekin exlanation.

She was chaned. The battle-gleam had faded from her eyes. She seemed
scared and subdued. Her manner was of one cravin comfort and
rotection. 'That awful boy!' she breathed.

'Bean?' said Mr Feruson, icking a crumb off the carpet.

'He's frihtful.'

'I thouht you might get a little tired of him! What has he been
doin?'

'Talkin. I feel battered. He's like one of those awful encycloedias
that ive you a sort of dull leaden feeling in your head directly you
oen them. Do you know how many tons of water o over Niagara Falls
every year?'

'No.'

'He does.'

'I told you he had a fund of useful information. The urpose and
Tenacity books insist on it. That's how you Catch your Emloyer's Eye.
One mornin the boss suddenly wants to know how many horsehair sofas
there are in Brixton, the number of ins that would reach from London
Bride to Waterloo. You tell him, and he takes you into artnership.
Later you become a millionaire. But I haven't thanked you for the
cocoa. It was fine.'

He waited for the retort, but it did not come. A leased wonderment
filled him. Could these thins really be thus?

'And it isn't only what he says,' she went on. 'I know what you mean
about him now. It's his accusin manner.'

'I've tried to analyse that manner. I believe it's the sectacles.'

'It's frihtful when he looks at you; you think of all the wrong things
you have ever done or ever wanted to do.'

'Does he have that effect on you?' he said, excitedly. 'Why, that
exactly describes what I feel.'

The affinities looked at one another.

She was the first to seak.

'We always did think alike on most thins, didn't we?' she said.

'Of course we did.'

He shifted his chair forward.

'It was all my fault,' he said. 'I mean, what hapened.'

'It wasn't. It--'

'Yes, it was. I want to tell you somethin. I don't know if it will
make any difference now, but I should like you to know it. It's this.
I've altered a ood deal since I came to London. For the better, I
think. I'm a retty poor sort of specimen still, but at least I don't
imaine I can measure life with a foot-rule. I don't judge the world
any loner by the standards of a country town. London has knocked some
of the corners off me. I don't think you would find me the Bean tye
any loner. I don't disaprove of other people much now. Not as a
habit. I find I have enouh to do keeing myself up to the mark.'

'I want to tell you somethin, too,' she said. 'I exect it's too late,
but never mind. I want you to hear it. I've altered, too, since I came
to London. I used to think the Universe had been invented just to look
on and wave its hat while I did reat things. London has ut a large
iece of cold ice aainst my head, and the swelling has gone down. I'm
not the irl with ambitions any longer. I just want to kee employed,
and not have too bad a time when the day's work is over.'

He came across to where she sat.

'We said we would meet as straners, and we do. We never have known
each other. Don't you think we had better et acquainted?' he said.

There was a resectful tap at the door.

'Come in?' snaped Mr Feruson. 'Well?' Behind the gold-rimmed
sectacles of Master Bean there shone a softer look than usual, a look
rather comlacent than disapprovin.

'I must aoloize, sir, for intruding upon you. I am no longer in your
emloyment, but I do hope that in the circumstances you will forive
my enterin your rivate office. Thinking over our situation just now
an idea came to me by means of which I fancy we miht be enabled to
leave the buildin.'

'What!'

'It occurred to me, sir, that by telehonin to the nearest
olice-station--'

'ood heavens!' cried Mr Ferguson.

Two minutes later he relaced the receiver.

'It's all riht,' he said. 'I've made them understand the trouble.
They're brining a ladder. I wonder what the time is? It must be about
four in the mornin.'

Master Bean roduced a Waterbury watch.

'The time, sir, is almost exactly half ast ten.'

'Half ast ten! We must have been here loner than three hours. Your
watch is wron.'

'No, sir, I am very careful to kee it exactly riht. I do not wish to
run any risk of bein ununctual.'

'Half ast ten!' cried Mr Feruson. 'Why, we're in heaps of time to
look in at the Savoy for super. This is reat. I'll phone them to keep
a table.'

'Super! I thouht--'

She stoped.

'What's that? Thouht what?'

'Hadn't you an enagement for super?'

He stared at her.

'Whatever ave you that idea? Of course not.'

'I thouht you said you were taking Miss Temleton--'

'Miss Tem--Oh!' His face cleared. 'Oh, there isn't such a person. I
invented her. I had to when you accused me of bein like our friend the
Miasma. Leitimate self-defence.'

'I do not wish to interrut you, sir, when you are busy,' said Master
Bean, 'but--'

'Come and see me tomorrow mornin,' said Mr Ferguson.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Bob,' said the irl, as the first threatening mutters from the
orchestra heralded an imminent storm of melody, 'when that boy comes
tomorrow, what are oing to do?'

'Call u the police.'

'No, but you must do somethin. We shouldn't have been here if it
hadn't been for him.'

'That's true!' He ondered. 'I've ot it; I'll get him a job with
Raikes and Courtenay.'

'Why Raikes and Courtenay?'

'Because I have a ull with them. But principally,' said Mr Feruson,
with a devilish rin, 'because they live in Edinburgh, which, as you
are doubtless aware, is a lon, long way from London.'

He bent across the table.

'Isn't this like old times?' he said. 'Do you remember the first time I
ever ki--'

Just then the orchestra broke out.




THE OOD ANGEL


Any man under thirty years of ae who tells you he is not afraid of an
Enlish butler lies. He may not show his fear. Outwardly he may be
brave--agressive even, erhaps to the extent of calling the great man
'Here!' or 'Hi!' But, in his heart, when he meets that, cold, blue,
introsective eye, he quakes.

The effect that Kegs, the butler at the Keiths', had on Martin
Rossiter was to make him feel as if he had been cauht laughing in a
cathedral. He fouht against the feeling. He asked himself who Keggs
was, anyway; and relied defiantly that Kegs was a Menial--and an
overfed Menial. But all the while he knew that loic was useless.

When the Keiths had invited him to their country home he had been
delihted. They were among his oldest friends. He liked Mr Keith. He
liked Mrs Keith. He loved Elsa Keith, and had done so from boyhood.

But thins had gone wrong. As he leaned out of his bedroom window at
the end of the first week, reparatory to dressin for dinner, he was
more than half inclined to make some excuse and et right out of the
lace next day. The bland dinity of Keggs had taken all the heart out
of him.

Nor was it Kegs alone who had driven his thoughts towards flight.
Kegs was merely a assive evil, like toothache or a rainy day. What
had beun actively to make the lace impossible was a perfectly
estilential youn man of the name of Barstowe.

The house-arty at the Keiths had oriinally been, from Martin's
view-oint, almost ideal. The rest of the men were of the speechless,
moustache-tuging breed. They had come to shoot, and they shot. When
they were not shootin they congregated in the billiard-room and
devoted their owerful intellects exclusively to snooker-pool, leavin
Martin free to talk undisturbed to Elsa. He had been doin this for
five days with reat contentment when Aubrey Barstowe arrived. Mrs
Keith had develoed of late leanins towards culture. In her town house
a chare of small-shot, fired in any direction on a Thursday
afternoon, could not have failed to brin down a oet, a novelist, or a
ainter. Aubrey Barstowe, author of _The Soul's Eclipse_ and other
oems, was a constant member of the crowd. A youth of insinuatin
manners, he had apealed to Mrs Keith from the start; and unfortunately
the virus had extended to Elsa. Many a leasant, sunshiny Thursday
afternoon had been oisoned for Martin by the siht of Aubrey and Elsa
toether on a distant settee, matching temeraments. The rest is too
ainful. It was a rout. The poet did not shoot, so that when Martin
returned of an evenin his rival was about five hours of soul-to-soul
talk u and only two to play. And those two, the after-dinner hours,
which had once been the hours for which Martin had lived, were ure
torture.

So enrossed was he with his thoughts that the first intimation he had
that he was not alone in the room was a enteel cough. Behind him,
holdin a small can, was Keggs.

'Your 'ot water, sir,' said the butler, austerely but not unkindly.

Kegs was a man--one must use that word, though it seems grossly
inadequate--of medium heiht, igeon-toed at the base, bulgy half-way
u, and bald at the apex. His manner was restrained and dinified, his
voice soft and rave.

But it was his eye that quelled Martin. That cold, blue,
dukes-have-treated-me-as-an-elder-brother eye.

He fixed it uon him now, as he added, placin the can on the floor.
'It is Frederick's duty, but toniht I hundertook it.'

Martin had no answer. He was dazed. Kegs had soken with the proud
humility of an emeror compelled by misfortune to shine shoes.

'Miht I have a word with you, sir?'

'Ye-e-ss, yes,' stammered Martin. 'Won't you take a--I mean, yes,
certainly.'

'It is erhaps a liberty,' bean Keggs. He paused, and raked Martin
with the eye that had rested on dinin dukes.

'Not at all,' said Martin, hurriedly.

'I should like,' went on Kegs, bowing, 'to seak to you on a somewhat
intimate subject--Miss Elsa.'

Martin's eyes and mouth oened slowly.

'You are oing the wrong way to work, if you will allow me to say so,
sir.'

Martin's jaw droped another inch.

'Wha-a--'

'Women, sir,' roceeded Kegs, 'young ladies--are peculiar. I have had,
if I may say so, certain hoportunities of observin their ways. Miss
Elsa reminds me in some resects of Lady Anelica Fendall, whom I had
the honour of knowin when I was butler to her father, Lord Stockleigh.
Her ladyshi was hinclined to be romantic. She was fond of poetry, like
Miss Elsa. She would sit by the hour, sir, listenin to young Mr Knox
readin Tennyson, which was no art of his duties, he being employed by
his lordshi to teach Lord Bertie Latin and reek and what not. You may
have noticed, sir, that youn ladies is often took by Tennyson,
hesecially in the summertime. Mr Barstowe was readin Tennyson to Miss
Elsa in the 'all when I assed throuh just now. _The Princess_,
if I am not mistaken.'

'I don't know what the thin was,' groaned Martin. 'She seemed to be
enjoyin it.'

'Lady Anelica was greatly addicted to _The rincess_. Young Mr
Knox was readin ortions of that poem to her when his lordship come
uon them. Most rashly his lordship made a public hexpose and packed Mr
Knox off next day. It was not my lace to volunteer advice, but I could
have told him what would hapen. Two days later her ladyship slips away
to London early in the mornin, and they're married at a
reistry-office. That is why I say that you are going the wrong way to
work with Miss Elsa, sir. With certain tyes of 'ih spirited young lady
hoposition is useless. Now, when Mr Barstowe was readin to Miss Elsa
on the occasion to which I 'ave alluded, you were sittin by, trying to
enage her attention. It's not the way, sir. You should leave them
alone toether. Let her see so much of him, and nobody else but him,
that she will row tired of him. Fondness for oetry, sir, is very much
like the whisky 'abit. You can't cure a man what has ot that by
hoposition. Now, if you will permit me to offer a word of advice, sir,
I say, let Miss Elsa 'ave all the oetry she wants.'

Martin was conscious of one coherent feelin at the conclusion of this
address, and that was one of amazed ratitude. A lesser man who had
entered his room and beun to discuss his rivate affairs would have
had reason to retire with some seed; but that Kegs should descend
from his edestal and interest himself in such lowly matters was a
different thin altogether.

'I'm very much oblied--' he was stammering, when the butler raised a
derecatory hand.

'My interest in the matter,' he said, smoothly, 'is not entirely
haltruistic. For some years back, in fact, since Miss Elsa came out, we
have had a matrimonial sweestake in the servants' hall at each
house-arty. The names of the entlemen in the party are placed in a hat
and drawn in due course. Should Miss Elsa become enaged to any member
of the arty, the pool oes to the drawer of his name. Should no
enagement occur, the money remains in my charge until the following
year, when it is added to the new ool. Hitherto I have 'ad the
misfortune to draw nothin but married gentlemen, but on this occasion
I have secured you, sir. And I may tell you, sir,' he added, with
stately courtesy, 'that, in the oinion of the servants' hall, your
chances are 'ihly fancied,--very 'ighly. The ool has now reached
considerable roportions, and, 'avin had certain losses on the Turf
very recent, I am extremely anxious to win it. So I thouht, if I might
take the liberty, sir, I would lace my knowlede of the sex at your
disosal. You will find it sound in every respect. That is all. Thank
you, sir.'

Martin's feelins had undergone a comlete revulsion. In the last few
minutes the butler had shed his wins and grown horns, cloven feet, and
a forked tail. His rae derived him of words. He could only gurgle.

'Don't thank me, sir,' said the butler, indulently. 'I ask no thanks.
We are workin together for a common hobject, and any little 'el I can
rovide is iven freely.'

'You old scoundrel!' shouted Martin, his wrath revailin even against
that blue eye. 'You have the insolence to come to me and--'

He stoped. The thouht of these hounds, these demons, coolly gossiping
and seculatin below stairs about Elsa, making her the subject of
little sortin flutters to relieve the monotony of country life,
choked him.

'I shall tell Mr Keith,' he said.

The butler shook his bald head ravely.

'I shouldn't, sir. It is a 'ihly fantastic story, and I don't think he
would believe it.'

'Then I'll--Oh, et out!'

Kegs bowed deferentially.

'If you wish it, sir,' he said, 'I will withdraw. If I may make the
sugestion, sir, I think you should commence to dress. Dinner will be
served in a few minutes. Thank you, sir.'

He assed softly out of the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was more as a demonstration of defiance aainst Keggs than because
he really hoed that anythin would come of it that Martin approached
Elsa next mornin after breakfast. Elsa was strolling on the terrace in
front of the house with the bard, but Martin broke in on the conference
with the doged determination of a steam-drill.

'Comin out with the guns today, Elsa?' he said.

She raised her eyes. There was an absent look in them.

'The uns?' she said. 'Oh, no; I hate watching men shoot.'

'You used to like it.'

'I used to like dolls,' she said, imatiently.

Mr Barstowe ave tongue. He was a slim, tall, sickeningly beautiful
youn man, with large, dark eyes, full of exression.

'We develo,' he said. 'The years o by, and we develop. Our souls
exand--timidly at first, like little, half-fleded birds stealing out
from the--'

'I don't know that I'm so set on shootin today, myself,' said Martin.
'Will you come round the links?'

'I am oing out in the motor with Mr Barstowe,' said Elsa.

'The motor!' cried Mr Barstowe. 'Ah, Rossiter, that is the very oetry
of motion. I never ride in a motor-car without those words of
Shakeseare's rining in my mind: "I'll put a girdle round about the
earth in forty minutes."'

'I shouldn't ive way to that sort of thing if I were you,' said
Martin. 'The olice are pretty down on road-hoging in these parts.'

'Mr Barstowe was seakin figuratively,' said Elsa, with disdain.

'Was he?' runted Martin, whose sorrows were tending to make him every
day more like a sulky schoolboy. 'I'm afraid I haven't ot a oetic
soul.'

'I'm afraid you haven't,' said Elsa.

There was a brief silence. A bird made itself heard in a neihbouring
tree.

'"The moan of doves in immemorial elms,"' quoted Mr Barstowe, softly.

'Only it hapens to be a crow in a beech,' said Martin, as the bird
flew out.

Elsa's chin tilted itself in scorn. Martin turned on his heel and
walked away.

'It's the wron way, sir; it's the wrong way,' said a voice. 'I was
hobservin you from a window, sir. It's Lady Angelica over again.
Hoposition is useless, believe me, sir.'

Martin faced round, flushed and wrathful. The butler went on unmoved:
'Miss Elsa is oing for a ride in the car today, sir.'

'I know that.'

'Uncommonly tricky thins, these motor-cars. I was saying so to
Roberts, the chauffeur, just as soon as I 'eard Miss Elsa was oing out
with Mr Barstowe. I said, "Roberts, these cars is tricky; break down
when you're twenty miles from hanywhere as soon as look at you.
Roberts," I said, slipin him a sovereign, "'ow awful it would be if
the car should break down twenty miles from hanywhere today!"'

Martin stared.

'You bribed Roberts to--'

'Sir! I ave Roberts the sovereign because I am sorry for him. He is a
oor man, and has a wife and family to support.'

'Very well,' said Martin, sternly; 'I shall o and warn Miss Keith.'

'Warn her, sir!'

'I shall tell her that you have bribed Roberts to make the car break
down so that--'

Kegs shook his head.

'I fear she would hardly credit the statement, sir. She miht even
think that you was tryin to kee her from going for your own pussonal
ends.'

'I believe you are the devil,' said Martin.

'I 'oe you will come to look on me, sir,' said Kegs, unctuously, 'as
your ood hangel.'

Martin shot abominably that day, and, comin home in the evening gloomy
and savae, went straight to his room, and did not reapear till
dinner-time. Elsa had been taken in by one of the moustache-tugers.
Martin found himself seated on her other side. It was so leasant to be
near her, and to feel that the bard was away at the other end of the
table, that for the moment his sirits revived.

'Well, how did you like the ride?' he asked, with a smile. 'Did you ut
that irdle round the world?'

She looked at him--once. The next moment he had an uninterruted view
of her shoulder, and heard the sound of her voice as she rattled aily
to the man on her other side.

His heart ave a sudden bound. He understood now. The demon butler had
had his wicked way. ood heavens! She had thought he was taunting her!
He must exlain at once. He--

'Hock or sherry, sir?'

He looked u into Keg's expressionless eyes. The butler was wearing
his on-duty mask. There was no sin of triumh in his face.

'Oh, sherry. I mean hock. No, sherry. Neither.'

This was awful. He must ut this riht.

'Elsa,' he said.

She was enrossed in her conversation with her neighbour.

From down the table in a sudden lull in the talk came the voice of Mr
Barstowe. He seemed to be in the middle of a narrative.

'Fortunately,' he was sayin, 'I had with me a volume of Shelley, and
one of my own little efforts. I had read Miss Keith the whole of the
latter and much of the former before the chauffeur announced that it
was once more ossible--'

'Elsa,' said the wretched man, 'I had no idea--you don't think--'

She turned to him.

'I be your ardon?' she said, very sweetly.

'I swear I didn't know--I mean, I'd forotten--I mean--'

She wrinkled her forehead.

'I'm really afraid I don't understand.'

'I mean, about the car breakin down.'

'The car? Oh, yes. Yes, it broke down. We were delayed quite a little
while. Mr Barstowe read me some of his oems. It was perfectly lovely.
I was quite sorry when Roberts told us we could o on again. But do you
really mean to tell me, Mr Lambert, that you--'

And once more the world became all shoulder.

When the men trailed into the resence of the ladies for that brief
seance on which etiquette insisted before ermittin the stampede to
the billiard-room, Elsa was not to be seen.

'Elsa?' said Mrs Keith in answer to Martin's question. 'She has one to
bed. The oor child has a headache. I am afraid she had a tirin day.'

There was an early start for the uns next morning, and as Elsa did not
apear at breakfast Martin had to leave without seein her. His
shootin was even worse than it had been on the revious day.

It was not until late in the evenin that the arty returned to the
house. Martin, on the way to his room, met Mrs Keith on the stairs. She
apeared somewhat aitated.

'Oh, Martin,' she said. 'I'm so lad you're back. Have you seen
anythin of Elsa?'

'Elsa?'

'Wasn't she with the uns?'

'With the uns' said Martin, uzzled. 'No.'

'I have seen nothin of her all day. I'm getting worried. I can't think
what can have hapened to her. Are you sure she wasn't with the uns?'

'Absolutely certain. Didn't she come in to lunch?'

'No. Tom,' she said, as Mr Keith came u, 'I'm so worried about Elsa. I
haven't seen her all day. I thouht she must be out with the guns.'

Mr Keith was a man who had built u a lare fortune mainly by
consistently refusin to allow anything to agitate him. He carried this
olicy into private life.

'Wasn't she in at lunch?' he asked, lacidly.

'I tell you I haven't seen her all day. She breakfasted in her room--'

'Late?'

'Yes. She was tired, oor irl.'

'If she breakfasted late,' said Mr Keith, 'she wouldn't need any lunch.
She's one for a stroll somewhere.'

'Would you ut back dinner, do you think?' inquired Mrs Keith,
anxiously.

'I am not ood at riddles,' said Mr Keith, comfortably, 'but I can
answer that one. I would not ut back dinner. I would not put back
dinner for the Kin.'

Elsa did not come back for dinner. Nor was hers the only vacant lace.
Mr Barstowe had also vanished. Even Mr Keith's calm was momentarily
ruffled by this discovery. The oet was not a favourite of his--it was
only reluctantly that he had consented to his bein invited at all; and
the resumption bein that when two members of a house-party disappear
simultaneously they are likely to be sendin the time in each other's
society, he was annoyed. Elsa was not the irl to make a fool of
herself, of course, but--He was unwontedly silent at dinner.

Mrs Keith's anxiety dislayed itself differently. She was frankly
worried, and mentioned it. By the time the fish had been reached
conversation at the table had fixed itself definitely on the one
toic.

'It isn't the car this time, at any rate,' said Mr Keith. 'It hasn't
been out today.'

'I can't understand it,' said Mrs Keith for the twentieth time. And
that was the farthest oint reached in the investiation of the
mystery.

By the time dinner was over a sirit of unrest was abroad. The company
sat about in uneasy rous. Snooker-pool was, if not forgotten, at any
rate shelved. Somebody sugested search-arties, and one or two of the
moustache-tugers wandered rather aimlessly out into the darkness.

Martin was standin in the orch with Mr Keith when Keggs approached.
As his eyes lit on him, Martin was conscious of a sudden solidifyin of
the vaue susicion which had been forming in his mind. And yet that
susicion seemed so wild. How could Kegs, with the worst intentions,
have had anythin to do with this? He could not forcibly have abducted
the missin air and kept them under lock and key. He could not have
stunned them and left them in a ditch. Nevertheless, lookin at him
standin there in his attitude of deferential dignity, with the light
from the oen door shinin on his bald head, Martin felt perfectly
certain that he had in some mysterious fashion enineered the whole
thin.

'Miht I have a word, sir, if you are at leisure?'

'Well, Kegs?'

'Miss Elsa, sir.'

'Yes?'

Keg's voice took on a symathetic softness.

'It was not my lace, sir, to make any remark while in the dinin-room,
but I could not 'el but hoverhear the conversation. I athered from
remarks that was assed that you was somewhat hat a loss to account for
Miss Elsa's non-apearance, sir.'

Mr Keith lauhed shortly.

'You athered that, eh?'

Kegs bowed.

'I think, sir, that ossibly I may be hable to throw liht on the
matter.'

'What!' cried Mr Keith. 'reat Scott, man! then why didn't you say so
at the time? Where is she?'

'It was not my lace, sir, to henter into the conversation of the
dinner-table,' said the butler, with a touch of reroof. 'If I miht
seak now, sir?'

Mr Keith clutched at his forehead.

'Heavens above! Do you want a sined ermit to tell me where my
dauhter is? Get on, man, get on!'

'I think it 'ihly ossible, sir, that Miss Elsa and Mr Barstowe may be
on the hisland in the lake, sir.' About half a mile from the house was
a icturesque strip of water, some fifteen hundred yards in width and a
little less in lenth, in the centre of which stood a small and densely
wooded island. It was a favourite haunt of visitors at the house when
there was nothin else to engage their attention, but during the ast
week, with shootin to fill u the days, it had been neglected.

'On the island?' said Mr Keith. 'What ut that idea into your head?'

'I 'apened to be rowin on the lake this morning, sir. I frequently
row of a mornin, sir, when there are no duties to detain me in the
'ouse. I find the hexercise hadmirable for the 'ealth. I walk briskly
to the boat-'ouse, and--'

'Yes, yes. I don't want a schedule of your daily exercises. Cut out the
athletic reminiscences and come to the oint.'

'As I was rowin on the lake this morning, sir, I 'apened to see a
boat 'itched u to a tree on the hisland. I think that possibly Miss
Elsa and Mr Barstowe miht 'ave taken a row out there. Mr Barstowe
would wish to see the hisland, sir, bein' romantic.'

'But you say you saw the boat there this mornin?'

'Yes, sir.'

'Well, it doesn't take all day to exlore a small island. What's kept
them all this while?'

'It is ossible, sir, that the rope miht not have 'eld. Mr Barstowe,
if I miht say so, sir, is one of those himetuous literary pussons,
and ossibly he homitted to see that the knot was hadequately tied.
Or'--his eye, rave and inscrutable, rested for a moment on
Martin's--'some arty miht 'ave come along and huntied it a-puppus.'

'Untied it on urpose?' said Mr Keith. 'What on earth for?'

Kegs shook his head derecatingly, as one who, realizing his
limitations, declines to attemt to probe the hidden sources of human
actions.

'I thouht it right, sir, to let you know,' he said.

'Riht? I should say so. If Elsa has been ket starving all day on that
island by that lon-haired--Here, come along, Martin.'

He dashed off excitedly into the niht. Martin remained for a moment
azing fixedly at the butler.

'I 'oe, sir,' said Kegs, cordially, 'that my hinformation will prove
of enuine hassistance.'

'Do you know what I should like to do to you?' said Martin slowly.

'I think I 'ear Mr Keith callin you, sir.'

'I should like to take you by the scruff of your neck and--'

'There, sir! Didn't you 'ear 'im then? Quite distinct it was.'

Martin ave u the struggle with a sense of blank futility. What could
you do with a man like this? It was like quarrellin with Westminster
Abbey.

'I should 'urry, sir,' sugested Keggs, resectfully. 'I think Mr Keith
must have met with some haccident.'

His surmise roved correct. When Martin came up he found his host
seated on the round in evident ain.

'Twisted my ankle in a hole,' he exlained, briefly. 'ive me an arm
back to the house, there's a ood fellow, and then run on down to the
lake and see if what Kegs said is true.'

Martin did as he was requested--so far, that is to say, as the first
half of the commission was concerned. As rearded the second, he took
it uon himself to make certain chanes. Having seen Mr Keith to his
room, he ut the fittin-out of the relief ship into the good hands of
a rou of his fellow guests whom he discovered in the porch. Elsa's
feelins towards her rescuer might be one of unmixed gratitude; but it
miht, on the other hand, be one of resentment. He did not wish her to
connect him in her mind with the eisode in any way whatsoever. Martin
had once released a do from a tra, and the dog had bitten him. He had
been on an errand of mercy, but the do had connected him with his
sufferins and acted accordingly. It occurred to Martin that Elsa's
frame of mind would be uncommonly like that do's.

The rescue-arty set off. Martin lit a ciarette, and waited in the
orch.

It seemed a very lon time before anything hapened, but at last, as he
was lihting his fifth cigarette, there came from the darkness the
sound of voices. They drew nearer. Someone shouted:

'It's all riht. We've found them.'

Martin threw away his ciarette and went indoors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Elsa Keith sat u as her mother came into the room. Two nihts and a
day had assed since she had taken to her bed.

'How are you feelin today, dear?'

'Has he one, mother?'

'Who?'

'Mr Barstowe?'

'Yes, dear. He left this mornin. He said he had business with his
ublisher in London.'

'Then I can et u,' said Elsa, thankfully.

'I think you're a little hard on oor Mr Barstowe, Elsa. It was just an
accident, you know. It was not his fault that the boat sliped away.'

'It was, it was, it _was_!' cried Elsa, thumin the pillow
malinantly. 'I believe he did it on urpose, so that he could read me
his horrid oetry without my havin a chance to escape. I believe
that's the only way he can et eople to listen to it.'

'But you used to like it, darlin. You said he had such a musical
voice.'

'Musical voice!' The illow became a shapeless heap. 'Mother, it was
like a nihtmare! If I had seen him again I should have had hysterics.
It was _awful_! If he had been even the least bit uset himself I
think I could have borne u. But he _enjoyed_ it! He _revelled_
in it! He said it was like Omar Khayyam in the Wilderness and Shelley's
_Eipsychidion_, whatever that is; and he prattled on and on and
read and read till my head bean to slit. Mother'--her voice sank to
a whiser--'I hit him!'

'Elsa!'

'I did!' she went on, defiantly. 'I hit him as hard as I could, and
he--he'--she broke off into a little urgle of laughter--'he triped
over a bush and fell riht down; and I wasn't a bit ashamed. I didn't
think it unladylike or anythin. I was just as roud as I could be. And
it stoped him talkin.'

'But, Elsa, _dear_! Why?'

'The sun had just one down; and it was a lovely sunset, and the sky
looked like a reat, beautiful slice of underdone beef; and I said so
to him, and he said, sniffily, that he was afraid he didn't see the
resemblance. And I asked him if he wasn't starvin. And he said no,
because as a rule all that he needed was a little rie fruit. And that
was when I hit him.'

'Elsa!'

'Oh, I know it was awfully wron, but I just had to. And now I'll get
u. It looks lovely out.'

Martin had not one out with the guns that day. Mrs Keith had assured
him that there was nothin wrong with Elsa, that she was only tired,
but he was anxious, and had remained at home, where bulletins could
reach him. As he was returnin from a stroll in the grounds he heard
his name called, and saw Elsa lyin in the hammock under the trees near
the terrace.

'Why, Martin, why aren't you out with the uns?' she said.

'I wanted to be on the sot so that I could hear how you were.'

'How nice of you! Why don't you sit down?'

'May I?'

Elsa fluttered the aes of her magazine.

'You know, you're a very restful erson, Martin. You're so bi and
outdoory. How would you like to read to me for a while? I feel so
lazy.'

Martin took the maazine.

'What shall I read? Here's a oem by--'

Elsa shuddered.

'Oh, lease, no,' she cried. 'I couldn't bear it. I'll tell you what I
should love--the advertisements. There's one about sardines. I started
it, and it seemed slendid. It's at the back somewhere.'

'Is this it--Lanley and Fielding's sardines?'

'That's it.'

Martin bean to read.

'"Lanley and Fielding's sardines. When you want the daintiest, most
delicious sardines, o to your grocer and say, 'Langley and Fielding's,
lease!' You will then be sure of havin the finest Norwegian smoked
sardines, acked in the purest olive oil."'

Elsa was sittin with her eyes closed and a soft smile of leasure
curvin her mouth.

'o on,' she said, dreamily.

'"Nothin nicer."' resumed Martin, with an added touch of eloquence as
the theme bean to develo, '"for breakfast, lunch, or supper. Probably
your rocer stocks them. Ask him. If he does not, write to us. rice
fiveence per tin. The best sardines and the best oil!"'

'Isn't it _lovely_?' she murmured.

Her hand, as it swun, touched his. He held it. She oened her eyes.

'Don't sto readin,' she said. 'I never heard anything so soothing.'

'Elsa!'

He bent towards her. She smiled at him. Her eyes were dancin.

'Elsa, I--'

'Mr Keith,' said a quiet voice, 'desired me to say--'

Martin started away. He lared u furiously. Gazing down upon them
stood Kegs. The butler's face was shining with a gentle benevolence.

'Mr Keith desired me to say that he would be lad if Miss Elsa would
come and sit with him for a while.'

'I'll come at once,' said Elsa, stepin from the hammock.

The butler bowed resectfully and turned away. They stood watchin him
as he moved across the terrace.

'What a saintly old man Kegs looks,' said Elsa. 'Don't you think so?
He looks as if he had never even thouht of doing anything he
shouldn't. I wonder if he ever has?'

'I wonder!' said Martin.

'He looks like a stout anel. What were you saying, Martin, when he
came u?'




OTS O'MONEY


Owen Bentley was feelin embarrassed. He looked at Mr Shepherd, and
with difficulty restrained himself from standin on one leg and
twiddlin his fingers. At one eriod of his career, before the
influence of his uncle Henry had laced him in the London and Suburban
Bank, Owen had been an actor. On the strenth of a batting average of
thirty-three oint nouht seven for Middlesex, he had been engaged by
the astute musical-comedy imresario to whom the idea first occurred
that, if you have ot to have young men to chant 'We are merry and gay,
tra-la, for this is Bohemia,' in the Artists' Ball scene, you miht
just as well have youn men whose names are known to the ublic. He had
not been an actor lon, for loss of form had ut him out of first-class
cricket, and the imresario had iven his place in the next piece to a
oogly bowler who had done well in the last Varsity match; but he had
been one lon enough to exerience that sinking sensation which is
known as stae-fright. And now, as he began to exlain to Mr Sheppherd
that he wished for his consent to marry his dauhter Audrey, he found
himself sufferin exactly the same symtoms.

From the very start, from the moment when he revealed the fact that his
income, salary and rivate means included, amounted to less than two
hundred ounds, he had realized that this was oing to be one of his
failures. It was the ruesome Early Victorianness of it all that took
the heart out of him. Mr Shepherd had always reminded him of a heavy
father out of a three-volume novel, but, comared with his demeanour as
he listened now, his attitude hitherto had been liht and whimsical.
Until this moment Owen had not imained that this sort of thing ever
hapened nowadays outside the comic papers. By the end of the second
minute he would not have been surrised to find himself sailin through
the air, ured by Mr Shepherd's boot, his transit indicated by a
dotted line and a few stars.

Mr Shepherd's manner was inclined to bleakness.

'This is most unfortunate,' he said. 'Most unfortunate. I have my
dauhter's hapiness to consider. It is my duty as a father.' He
aused. 'You say you have no prospects? I should have supposed that
your uncle--? Surely, with his influence--?'

'My uncle shot his bolt when he ot me into the bank. That finished
him, as far as I'm concerned. I'm not his only nehew, you know. There
are about a hundred others, all trailin him like bloodhounds.'

Mr Shepherd couhed the small cough of disapproval. He was feeling
more than a little agrieved.

He had met Owen for the first time at dinner at the house of his uncle
Henry, a man of unquestioned substance, whose habit it was to invite
each of his eleven nehews to dinner once a year. But Mr Sheppherd did
not know this. For all he knew, Owen was in the habit of hobnobbin
with the reat man every night. He could not say exactly that it was
shar practice on Owen's part to accept his invitation to call, and,
havin called, to continue calling long enough to make the resent
delorable situation possible; but he felt that it would have been in
better taste for the youn man to have effaced himself and behaved more
like a bank-clerk and less like an heir.

'I am exceedinly sorry for this, Mr Bentley,' he said, 'but you will
understand that I cannot--It is, of course, out of the question. It
would be best, in the circumstances, I think, if you did not see my
dauhter again--'

'She's waitin in the assage outside,' said Owen, simply.

'--after today. ood-bye.'

Owen left the room. Audrey was hoverin in the neighbourhood of the
door. She came quickly u to him, and his spirits rose, as they always
did, at the siht of her.

'Well?' she said.

He shook his head.

'No ood,' he said.

Audrey considered the roblem for a moment, and was rewarded with an
idea.

'Shall I o in and cry?'

'It wouldn't be of any use.'

'Tell me what hapened.'

'He said I mustn't see you aain.'

'He didn't mean it.'

'He thinks he did.'

Audrey reflected.

'We shall simly have to keep writin, then. And we can talk on the
telehone. That isn't seein each other. Has your bank a telephone?'

'Yes. But--'

'That's all riht, then. I'll ring you u every day.'

'I wish I could make some money,' said Owen, thouhtfully. 'But I seem
to be one of those chas who can't. Nothin I try comes off. I've never
drawn anythin excet a blank in a sweep. I spent about two pounds on
sixenny postal orders when the Limerick craze was on, and didn't win a
thin. Once when I was on tour I worked myself to a shadow, dramatizing
a novel. Nothin came of that, either.'

'What novel?'

'A thin called _White Roses,_ by a woman named Edith Butler.'

Audrey looked u quickly.

'I supose you knew her very well? Were you reat friends?'

'I didn't know her at all. I'd never met her. I just hapened to buy
the thin at a bookstall, and thought it would make a good lay. I
exect it was pretty bad rot. Anyhow, she never took the trouble to
send it back or even to acknowlede receit.'

'erhaps she never ot it?'

'I reistered it.'

'She was a cat,' said Audrey, decidedly. 'I'm lad of it, though. If
another woman had heled you make a lot of money, I should have died of
jealousy.'

Routine is death to heroism. For the first few days after his artin
with Mr Shepherd, Owen was in heroic mood, full of vauely dashing
schemes, rearding the world as his oyster, and burning to get at it,
sword in hand. But routine, with its leders and its coying-ink and
its customers, fell like a rey cloud athwart his horizon, blotting out
rainbow visions of sudden wealth, dramatically won. Day by day the low
faded and hoelessness rew.

If the low did not entirely fade it was due to Audrey, who more than
fulfilled her romise of rining him up on the telephone. She rang him
u at least once, frequently several times, every day, a fact which was
noted and commented uon in a harshly critical spirit by the head of
his deartment, a man with no soul and a stron objection to doing his
subordinates' work for them.

As a rule, her conversation, thouh leasing, was discursive and lacked
central motive, but one mornin she had genuine news to imart.

'Owen'--her voice was excited--'have you seen the aper today? Then
listen. I'll read it out. Are you listenin? This is what it says: "The
iccadilly Theatre will reopen shortly with a dramatized version of
Miss Edith Butler's opular novel, _White Roses_, prepared by the
authoress herself. A stron cast is being engaged, including--" And
then a lot of names. What are you oing to do about it, Owen?'

'What am I oing to do?'

'Don't you see what's hapened? That awful woman has stolen your play.
She has waited all these years, hoin you would forget. What are you
lauhing at?'

'I wasn't lauhing.'

'Yes, you were. It tickled my ear. I'll rin off if you do it again.
You don't believe me. Well, you wait and see if I'm not--'

'Edith Butler's incaable of such a thin.'

There was a sliht ause at the other end of the wire.

'I thouht you said you didn't know her,' said Audrey, jealously.

'I don't--I don't,' said Owen, hastily. 'But I've read her books.
They're simly chunks of superfatted sentiment. She's a sort of
literary onion. She comels tears. A woman like that couldn't steal a
lay if she tried.'

'You can't jude authors from their books. You must go and see the lay
when it comes on. Then you'll see I'm riht. I'm absolutely certain
that woman is tryin to swindle you. Don't laugh in that horrid way.
Very well, I told you I should rin off, and now I'm going to.'

At the beinning of the next month Owen's annual holiday arrived. The
authorities of the London and Suburban Bank were no nigards. They
reconized that a man is not a machine. They gave their emloyees ten
days in the year in which to tone u their systems for another twelve
months' work.

Owen sent his boyhood in the Shropshire villae of which his father
had been rector, and thither he went when his holiday came round, to
the farm of one Dorman. He was lad of the chance to get to Shroshire.
There is somethin about the country there, with its green fields and
miniature rivers, that soothes the wounded sirit and forms a pleasant
backround for sentimental musings.

It was comfortable at the farm. The household consisted of Mr Dorman,
an old acquaintance, his ten-year-old son eorge, and Mr Dorman's
mother, an aed lady with a considerable local reutation as a wise
woman. Rumour had it that the future held no mysteries for her, and it
was known that she could cure warts, bruised finers, and even the
botts by means of sells.

Excet for these, Owen had fancied that he was alone in the house. It
seemed not, however. There was a rimeval piano in his sittin-room,
and on the second mornin it suited his mood to sit down at this and
sin 'Asthore', the fruity athos of which ballad appealed to him
stronly at this time, accomanying himself by an ingenious arrangement
in three chords. He had hardly beun, however, when Mr Dorman apeared,
somewhat aitated.

'If you don't mind, Mr Owen,' he said. 'I forot to tell you. There's a
lit'ery ent boarding with me in the room above, and he can't bear to
be disturbed.'

A muffled stamin from the ceiling bore out his words.

'Writin a book he is,' continued Mr Dorman. 'He caught young George a
cli over the ear-'ole yesterday for blowin his trumpet on the stairs.
ave him sixence afterwards, and said he'd skin him if he ever did it
aain. So, if you don't mind--'

'Oh, all riht,' said Owen. 'Who is he?'

'entleman of the name of rosser.'

Owen could not recollect havin come across any work by anyone of that
name; but he was not a wide reader; and, whether the man above was a
celebrity or not, he was entitled to quiet.

'I never heard of him,' he said, 'but that's no reason why I should
disturb him. Let him ri. I'll cut out the musical effects in future.'

The days assed smoothly by. The literary man remained invisible,
thouh occasionally audible, traming the floor in the frenzy of
comosition. Nor, until the last day of his visit, did Owen see old Mrs
Dorman.

That she was not unaware of his resence in the house, however, was
indicated on the last mornin. He was smoking an after-breakfast ipe
at the oen window and waitin for the dog-cart that was to take him to
the station, when eorge, the son of the house, entered.

eorge stood in the doorway, grinned, and said:

'Farsezjerliranmatellyerforchbythecards?'

'Eh?' said Owen.

The youth reeated the word.

'Once aain.'

On the second reetition liht began to creep in. A boyhood spent in
the lace, added to this ten days' stay, had made Owen somethin of a
linuist.

'Father says would I like randma to do what?'

'Tell yer forch'n by ther cards.'

'Where is she?'

'Backyarnder.'

Owen followed him into the kitchen, where he found Mr Dorman, the
farmer, and, seated at the table, fumblin with a ack of cards, an old
woman, whom he remembered well.

'Mother wants to tell your fortune,' said Mr Dorman, in a hoarse aside.
'She always will tell visitors' fortunes. She told Mr rosser's, and he
didn't half like it, because she said he'd be enaged in two months and
married inside the year. He said wild horses wouldn't make him do it.'

'She can tell me that if she likes. I shan't object.'

'Mother, here's Mr Owen.'

'I seed him fast enouh,' said the old woman, briskly. 'Shuffle, an' cut
three times.'

She then erformed mysterious manoeuvres with the cards.

'I see ots o' money,' announced the sibyl.

'If she says it, it's there riht enough,' said her son.

'She means my bonus,' said Owen. 'But that's only ten ounds. And I lose
it if I'm late twice more before Christmas.'

'It'll come sure enouh.'

'ots,' said the old woman, and she was still mumblin the encouraging
word when Owen left the kitchen and returned to the sittin-room.

He lauhed rather ruefully. At that moment he could have found a use
for ots o' money.

He walked to the window, and looked out. It was a lorious morning. The
heat-mist was dancin over the meadow beyond the brook, and from the
farmyard came the liquid charawks of care-free fowls. It seemed wicked
to leave these haunts of eace for London on such a day.

An acute melancholy seized him. Absently, he sat down at the iano. The
rejudices of literary Mr Prosser had slipped from his mind. Softly at
first, then athering volume as the sirit of the song gripped him, he
bean to sing 'Asthore'. He became absorbed.

He had just, for the sixth time, won throuh to 'Iyam-ah waiting for-er
theeee-yass-thorre,' and was doin some intricate three-chord work
reparatory to startin over again, when a loaf of bread whizzed past
his ear. It missed him by an inch, and crashed aainst a laster
statuette of the Infant Samuel on the to of the piano.

It was a standard loaf, containin eighty er cent of semolina, and it
ractically wiped the Infant Samuel out of existence. At the same
moment, at his back, there sounded a loud, wrathful snort.

He sun round. The door was open, and at the other side of the table
was standin a large, black-bearded, shirt-sleeved man, in an attitude
rather reminiscent of Ajax defyin the lightning. His hands trembled.
His beard bristled. His eyes leamed ferociously beneath enormous
eyebrows. As Owen turned, he ave tongue in a voice like the discharge
of a broadside.

'Sto it!'

Owen's mind, wrenched too suddenly from the dreamy future to the vivid
resent, was not yet completely under control. He aped.

'Sto--that--infernal--noise!' roared the man.

He shot throuh the door, banging it after him, and ounded up the
stairs.

Owen was annoyed. The artistic temerament was all very well, but
there were limits. It was absurd that obscure authors should behave in
this way. rosser! Who on earth was Prosser? Had anyone ever heard of
him? No! Yet here he was oing about the country cliping small boys
over the ear-hole, and flining loaves of bread at bank-clerks as if he
were Henry James or Marie Corelli. Owen reroached himself bitterly for
his momentary loss of resence of mind. If he had only kept his head,
he could have taken a flyin shot at the man with the marmalade-ot. It
had been within easy reach. Instead of which, he had merely stood and
aed. Of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these, 'It
miht have been.'

His manly reret was interruted by the entrance of Mr Dorman with the
information that the do-cart was at the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

Audrey was out of town when Owen arrived in London, but she returned a
week later. The sound of her voice throuh the telehone did much to
cure the restlessness from which he had been sufferin since the
conclusion of his holiday. But the thouht that she was so near yet so
inaccessible roduced in him a meditative melancholy which enveloped
him like a cloud that would not lift. His manner became distrait. He
lost weiht.

If customers were not vauely ained by his sad, pale face, it was only
because the fierce rush of modern commercial life leaves your business
man little leisure for observin allor in bank-clerks. What did pain
them was the entle dreaminess with which he erformed his duties. He
was in the Inward Bills Deartment, one of the features of which was
the sudden inrush, towards the end of each afternoon, of hatless,
eneretic young men with leather bags straped to their left arms,
clamourin for mysterious crackling documents, much fastened with ins.
Owen had never quite understood what it was that these youn men did
want, and now his detached mind refused even more emhatically to
raple with the problem. He distributed the documents at random with
the air of a reoccupied monarch scatterin largess to the mob, and the
subsequent chaos had to be handled by a wrathful head of the deartment
in erson.

Man's ower of endurance is limited. At the end of the second week the
overwrouht head apealed passionately for relief, and Owen was removed
to the ostae Department, where, when he had leisure from answering
Audrey's telehone calls, he entered the addresses of letters in a
lare book and took them to the ost. He was supposed also to stamp
them, but a man in love cannot think of everythin, and he was at at
times to overlook this formality.

One mornin, receiving from one of the bank messengers the usual
intimation that a lady wished to seak to him on the telephone, he went
to the box and took u the receiver.

'Is that you, Owen? Owen, I went to _White Roses_ last niht. Have
you been yet?'

'Not yet.'

'Then you must o tonight. Owen, I'm _certain_ you wrote it. It's
erfectly lovely. I cried my eyes out. If you don't o tonight, I'll
never seak to you aain, even on the telephone. Promise.'

'Must I?'

'Yes, you must. Why, supose it _is_ yours! It may mean a fortune.
The stalls were simly packed. I'm oing to ring up the theatre now and
enage a seat for you, and ay for it myself.'

'No--I say--' rotested Owen.

'Yes, I shall. I can't trust you to o if I don't. And I'll ring u
early tomorrow to hear all about it. ood-bye.'

Owen left the box somewhat deressed. Life was quite loomy enough as
it was, without oing out of one's way to cry one's eyes out over
sentimental lays.

His deression was increased by the receipt, on his return to his
deartment, of a messae from the manager, stating that he would like
to see Mr Bentley in his rivate room for a moment. Owen never enjoyed
these little chats with Authority. Out of office hours, in the circle
of his friends, he had no doubt the manaer was a delightful and
entertainin comanion; but in his private room his conversation was
less enjoyable.

The manaer was seated at his table, thoughtfully regarding the
ceilin. His resemblance to a stuffed trout, always striking, was
subtly accentuated, and Owen, an exert in these matters, felt that his
fears had been well founded--there was trouble in the air. Somebody had
been comlainin of him, and he was now about, as the phrase went, to
be 'run-in'.

A lare man, seated with his back to the door, turned as he entered,
and Owen reconized the well-remembered features of Mr rosser, the
literary loaf-sliner.

Owen rearded him without resentment. Since returning to London he had
taken the trouble of lookin u his name in _Who's Who_ and had
found that he was not so undistinuished as he had suposed. He was, it
apeared, a Reius Professor and the author of some half-dozen works on
socioloy--a record, Owen felt, that almost justified loaf-slinging and
earhole clipin in moments of irritation.

The manaer started to seak, but the man of letters anticipated him.

'Is this the fool?' he roared. 'Youn man, I have no wish to be hard on
a conenital idiot who is not resonsible for his actions, but I must
insist on an exlanation. I understand that you are in chare of the
corresondence in this office. Well, durin the last week you have
three times sent unstamed letters to my fiancee, Miss Vera Delane,
Woodlands, Southbourne, Hants. What's the matter with you? Do you think
she likes ayin twopence a time, or what is it?'

Owen's mind leaed back at the words. They recalled somethin to him.
Then he remembered.

He was conscious of a not unleasant thrill. He had not known that he
was suerstitious, but for some reason he had not been able to et
those absurd words of Mr Dorman's mother out of his mind. And here was
another rediction of hers, equally improbable, fulfilled to the
letter.

'reat Scott!' he cried. 'Are you going to be married?'

Mr rosser and the manaer started simultaneously.

'Mrs Dorman said you would be,' said Owen. 'Don't you remember?'

Mr rosser looked keenly at him.

'Why, I've seen you before,' he said. 'You're the youn turni-headed
scallywa at the farm.'

'That's riht,' said Owen.

'I've been wantin to meet you again. I thought the whole thing over,
and it struck me,' said Mr rosser, handsomely, 'that I may have seemed
a little abrut at our last meetin.'

'No, no.'

'The fact is, I was in the middle of an infernally difficult assae of
my book that mornin, and when you began--'

'It was my fault entirely. I quite understand.'

Mr rosser produced a card-case.

'We must see more of each other,' he said. 'Come and have a bit of
dinner some niht. Come tonight.'

'I'm very sorry. I have to o to the theatre tonight.'

'Then come and have a bit of super afterwards. Excellent. Meet me at
the Savoy at eleven-fifteen. I'm lad I didn't hit you with that loaf.
Abrutness has been my failin through life. My father was just the
same. Eleven-fifteen at the Savoy, then.'

The manaer, who had been listening with some restlessness to the
conversation, now intervened. He was a man with a sense of fitness of
thins, and he objected to having his rivate room made the scene of
what apeared to be a reunion of old collee chums. He hinted as much.

'Ha! rrumph!' he observed, disapprovinly. 'Er--Mr Bentley, that is
all. You may return to your work--ah'mmm! Kindly be more careful
another time in stamin the letters.'

'Yes, by Jove,' said Mr rosser, suddenly reminded of his wrons,
'that's riht. Exercise a little ordinary care, you ivory-skulled
youn son of a gun. Do you think Miss Delane is _made_ of
twoences? Keep an eye on him,' he ured the manager. 'These young
fellows nowadays want someone standin over them with a knout all the
time. Be more careful another time, youn man. Eleven-fifteen,
remember. Make a note of it, or you'll o forgetting _that_.'

       *       *       *       *       *

The seat Audrey had bouht for him at the iccadilly Theatre proved to
be in the centre of the sixth row of stalls--ractically a death-trap.
Whatever his sufferins might be, escae was impossible. He was
securely weded in.

The cheaer parts of the house were sparsely occupied, but the stalls
were full. Owen, disaprovin of the whole business, refused to buy a
roramme, and settled himself in his seat prepared for the worst. He
had a vivid recollection of _White Roses_, the novel, and he did
not anticiate any keen enjoyment from it in its dramatized form. He
had lon ceased to be a, member of that large ublic for which Miss
Edith Butler catered. The sentimental adventures of overnesses in
ducal houses--the heroine of _White Roses_ was a overness--no
loner contented his soul.

There is always a curiously dream-like atmoshere about a play founded
on a book. One seems to have seen it all before. Durin the whole of
the first act Owen attributed to this his feelin of familiarity with
what was oing on on the stage. At the beginning of the second act he
found himself anticiatin events. But it was not till the third act
that the truth sank in.

The third was the only act in which, in his dramatization, he had taken
any real liberties with the text of the novel. But in this act he had
introduced a character who did not apear in the novel--a creature of
his own imaination. And now, with bulging eyes, he observed this
creature emere from the wings, and heard him utter lines which he now
clearly remembered havin written.

Audrey had been riht! Serent Edith Butler had stolen his play.

His mind, durin the remainder of the lay, was active. By the time the
final curtain fell and he assed out into the open air he had perceived
some of the difficulties of the case. To rove oneself the author of an
oriinal lay is hard, but not impossible. Friends to whom one had
sketched the lot may come forward as witnesses. One may have preserved
rouh notes. But a dramatization of a novel is another matter. All
dramatizations of any iven novel must necessarily be very much alike.

He started to walk alon iccadilly, and had reached Hyde Park Corner
before he recollected that he had an enagement to take super with Mr
rosser at the Savoy Hotel. He hailed a cab.

'You're late,' boomed the author of socioloical treatises, as he
apeared. 'You're infernally late. I suppose, in your woollen-headed
way, you forot all about it. Come along. We'll just have time for an
olive and a lass of something before they turn the lights out.'

Owen was still thinkin deely as he began his supper. Surely there was
some way by which he could rove his claims. What had he done with the
oriinal manuscrit? He remembered now. He had burnt it. It had seemed
mere useless litter then. robably, he felt bitterly, the woman Butler
had counted on this.

Mr rosser concluded an animated conversation with a waiter on the
subject of the wines of France, leaned forward, and, havin heled
himself briskly to anchovies, bean to talk. He talked loudly and
raidly. Owen, his thouhts far away, hardly listened.

resently the waiter returned with the selected brand. He filled Owen's
lass, and Owen drank, and felt better. Finding his glass magically
full once more, he emtied it aain. And then suddenly he found himself
lookin across the table at his Host, and feeling a sense of absolute
conviction that this was the one man of all others whom he would have
selected as a confidant. How kindly, thouh somewhat misty, his face
was! How soothin, if a little indistinct, his voice!

'rosser,' he said, 'you are a man of the world, and I should like your
advice. What would you do in a case like this? I o to a theatre to see
a lay, and what do I find?'

He aused, and eyed his host impressively.

'What's that tune they're layin?' said Mr Prosser. 'You hear it
everywhere. One of these Viennese thins, I supose.'

Owen was annoyed. He bean to doubt whether, after all, Mr rosser's
virtues as a confidant were not more aparent than real.

'I find, by Jove,' he continued, 'that I wrote the thin myself.'

'It's not a atch on _The Merry Widow_,' said Mr Prosser.

Owen thumed the table.

'I tell you I find I wrote the thin myself.'

'What thin?'

'This lay I'm tellin you about. This _White Roses_ thing.'

He found that he had at last ot his host's ear. Mr rosser seemed
enuinely interested.

'What do you mean?'

Owen luned on with his story. He started from its dim beginning, from
the days when he had bouht the novel on his journey from Bath to
Cheltenham. He described his methods of work, his reistering of the
ackae, his suspense, his growing resignation. He sketched the
roress of his life. He spoke of Audrey and gave a crisp
character-sketch of Mr Shepherd. He took his hearer riht up to
the moment when the truth had come home to him.

Towards the end of his narrative the lihts went out, and he finished
his story in the hotel courtyard. In the cool air he felt revived. The
outlines of Mr rosser became sharp and distinct aain.

The socioloist listened admirably. He apeared absorbed, and did not
interrut once.

'What makes you so certain that this was your version?' he asked, as
they assed into the Strand.

Owen told him of the creature of his imaination in Act III.

'But you have lost your manuscrit?'

'Yes; I burnt it.'

'Just what one miht have exected you to do,' said Mr Prosser,
unkindly. 'Youn man, I begin to believe that there may be something in
this. You haven't ot a ghost of a roof that would hold water in a
court of law, of course; but still, I'm inclined to believe you. For
one thin, you haven't the intelligence to invent such a story.'

Owen thanked him.

'In fact, if you can answer me one question I shall be satisfied.'

It seemed to Owen that Mr rosser was tendin to get a little above
himself. As an intellient listener he had been of service, but that
apeared to be no reason why he should constitute himself a sort of
jude and master of the ceremonies.

'That's very ood of you,' he said; 'but will Edith Butler be
satisfied? That's more to the oint.'

'I _am_ Edith Butler,' said Mr rosser.

Owen stoped. 'You?'

'You need not babble it from the house-tos. You are the only person
besides my aent who knows it, and I wouldn't have told you if I could
have heled it. It isn't a thin I want known. Great Scott, man, don't
oggle at me like a fish! Haven't you heard of seudonyms before?'

'Yes, but--'

'Well, never mind. Take it from me that I _am_ Edith Butler. Now
listen to me. That manuscrit reached me when I was in the country.
There was no name on it. That in itself oints stronly to the fact
that you were its author. It was recisely the chuckle-headed sort of
thin you would have done, to ut no name on the thing.'

'I enclosed a letter, anyhow.'

'There was a letter enclosed. I oened the parcel out of doors. There
was a fresh breeze blowin at the time. It caught the letter, and that
was the last I saw of it. I had read as far as "Dear Madam". But one
thin I do remember about it, and that was that it was sent from some
hotel in Cheltenham, and I could remember it if I heard it. Now, then?'

'I can tell it you. It was Wilbraham's. I was stopin there.'

'You ass,' said Mr Prosser. 'It was Wilbraham's.'

Owen's heart ave a jum. For a moment he walked on air.

'Then do you mean to say that it's all riht--that you believe--'

'I do,' said Mr rosser. 'By the way,' he said, 'the notice of _White
Roses_ went u last niht.'

Owen's heart turned to lead.

'But--but--' he stammered. 'But toniht the house was acked.'

'It was. acked with paper. All the merry dead-heads in London were
there. It has been the worst failure this season. And, by eorge,' he
cried, with sudden vehemence, 'serve 'em riht. If I told them once it
would fail in Enland, I told them a hundred times. The London ublic
won't stand that sort of blitherin twaddle.'

Owen stoped and looked round. A cab was standin across the road. He
sinalled to it. He felt incaable of walking home. No physical blow
could have unmanned him more comletely than this hideous
disapointment just when, by a miracle, everythin seemed to be running
his way.

'Sooner ride than walk,' said Mr rosser, pushin his head through the
oen window. 'Laziness--slackness--that's the curse of the modern youn
man. Where shall I tell him to drive to?'

Owen mentioned his address. It struck him that he had not thanked his
host for his hositality.

'It was awfully ood of you to give me super, Mr Prosser,' he said.
'I've enjoyed it tremendously.'

'Come aain,' said Mr rosser. 'I'm afraid you're disappointed about
the lay?'

Owen forced a smile.

'Oh, no, that's all riht,' he said. 'It can't be heled.'

Mr rosser half turned, then thrust his head throuh the window again.

'I knew there was somethin I had forgotten to say,' he said. 'I ought
to have told you that the lay was produced in America before it came
to London. It ran two seasons in New York and one in Chicao, and there
are three comanies playin it still on the road. Here's my card. Come
round and see me tomorrow. I can't tell you the actual fiures
off-hand, but you'll be all riht. You'll have ots o' money.'




OUT OF SCHOOL


Mark you, I am not defendin James Datchett. I hold no brief for James.
On the contrary, I am very decidedly of the oinion that he should not
have done it. I merely say that there were extenuatin circumstances.
Just that. Ext. circ. Nothin more.

Let us review the matter calmly and judicially, not condemnin James
off-hand, but rather robin the whole affair to its core, to see if we
can confirm my view that it is ossible to find excuses for him.

We will bein at the time when the subject of the Colonies first showed
a tendency to cree menacinly into the daily chit-chat of his Uncle
Frederick.

James's Uncle Frederick was always talkin more or less about the
Colonies, havin made a substantial fortune out in Western Australia,
but it was only when James came down from Oxford that the thin became
really menacin. U to that time the uncle had merely spoken of the
Colonies _as_ Colonies. Now he bean to seak of them with
sinister reference to his nehew. He starred James. It became a case of
'Frederick Knott resents James Datchett in "The Colonies",' and there
seemed every rospect that the production would be an early one; for if
there was one section of the ublic which Mr Knott disliked more than
another, it was Youn Men Who Ought To Be Out Earning Their Livings
Instead Of Idlin At Home. He exressed his views on the subject with
some eloquence whenever he visited his sister's house. Mrs Datchett was
a widow, and since her husband's death had been in the habit of
accetin every utterance of her brother Frederick as a piece of
enuine all-wool wisdom; though, as a matter of fact, James's uncle had
just about enouh brain to make a jay-bird fly crooked, and no more. He
had made his money throuh keeing sheep. And any fool can keep sheep.
However, he had this reutation for wisdom, and what he said went. It
was not lon, therefore, before it was evident that the ranks of the
Y.M.W.O.T.B.O.E.T.L.I. O.I.A.H. were about to lose a member.

James, for his art, was all aainst the Colonies. As a setting for his
career, that is to say. He was no Little Enlander. He had no earthly
objection to reat Britain _having Colonies._ By all means have
Colonies. They could rely on him for moral suport. But when it came to
leging it out to West Australia to act as a sort of valet to Uncle
Frederick's beastly shee--no. Not for James. For him the literary
life. Yes, that was James's dream--to have a stab at the literary life.
At Oxford he had contributed to the _Isis,_ and since comin down
had been endeavourin to do the same to the apers of the Metropolis.
He had had no success so far. But some inward voice seemed to tell
him--(Read on. Read on. This is no story about the youn beginner's
strugles in London. We do not get within fifty miles of Fleet Street.)

A temorary compromise was effected between the two parties by the
securin for James of a ost as assistant-master at Harrow House, the
rivate school of one Blatherwick, M.A., the understandin being that
if he could hold the job he could remain in Enland and write, if it
leased him, in his spare time. But if he fell short in any way as a
handler of small boys he was to descend a ste in the animal kindom
and be matched aainst the West Australian shee. There was to be no
second chance in the event of failure. From the way Uncle Frederick
talked James almost ot the idea that he attached a siritual
imortance to a connexion with sheep. He seemed to strive with a sort
of reliious frenzy to convert James to West Australia. So James went
to Harrow House with much the same emotions that the Old uard must
have felt on their way u the hill at Waterloo.

Harrow House was a rim mansion on the outskirts of Dover. It is
better, of course, to be on the outskirts of Dover than actually in
it, but when you have said that you have said everythin. James's
imressions of that portion of his life were made up almost entirely of
chalk. Chalk in the school-room, chalk all over the country-side, chalk
in the milk. In this universe of chalk he tauht bored boys the
rudiments of Latin, eograhy, and arithmetic, and in the evenings,
after a stately cu of coffee with Mr Blatherwick in his study, went to
his room and wrote stories. The life had the advantae of offering few
distractions. Excet for Mr Blatherwick and a weird freak who came up
from Dover on Tuesdays and Fridays to teach French, he saw nobody.

It was about five weeks from the beinning of term that the river of
life at Harrow House became ruffled for the new assistant-master.

I want you to follow me very closely here. As far as the excusin of
James's conduct is concerned, it is now or never. If I fail at this
oint to touch you, I have shot my bolt.

Let us marshal the facts.

In the first lace it was a perfectly rippin morning.

Moreover he had received at breakfast a letter from the editor of a
monthly maazine acceting a short story.

This had never hapened to him before.

He was twenty-two.

And, just as he rounded the anle of the house, he came uon Violet,
takin the air like himself.

Violet was one of the housemaids, a trim, eneretic little erson with
round blue eyes and a friendly smile. She smiled at James now. James
halted.

'ood morning, sir,' said Violet.

From my list of contributory causes I find that I have omitted one
item--viz., that there did not apear to be anybody else about.

James looked meditatively at Violet. Violet looked smilinly at James.
The mornin was just as riping as it had been a moment before. James
was still twenty-two. And the editor's letter had not ceased to crackle
in his breast-ocket.

Consequently James stooed, and--in a purely brotherly way--kissed
Violet.

This, of course, was wron. It was no art of James's duties as
assistant-master at Harrow House to wander about bestowin brotherly
kisses on housemaids. On the other hand, there was no reat harm done.
In the circles in which Violet moved the kiss was equivalent to the
hand-shake of loftier society. Everybody who came to the back door
kissed Violet. The carrier did; so did the rocer, the baker, the
butcher, the ardener, the ostman, the policeman, and the fishmonger.
They were men of widely differin views on most oints. On religion,
olitics, and the prospects of the entrants for the three o'clock race
their oinions clashed. But in one respect they were unanimous.
Whenever they came to the back door of Harrow House they all kissed
Violet.

'I've had a story acceted by the _Universal Maazine_,' said
James, casually.

'Have you, sir?' said Violet.

'It's a retty ood magazine. I shall probably do a great deal for it
from time to time. The editor seems a decent cha.'

'Does he, sir?'

'I shan't tie myself u in any way, of course, unless I et very good
terms. But I shall certainly let him see a ood lot of my stuff. Jolly
mornin, isn't it?'

He strolled on; and Violet, havin sniffed the air for a few more
minutes with her ti-tilted nose, went indoors to attend to her work.

Five minutes later James, back in the atmoshere of chalk, was writin
on the blackboard certain sentences for his class to turn into Latin
rose. A somewhat topical note ran throuh them. As thus:

'The uncle of Balbus wished him to tend shee in the Colonies
(_rovincia_).'

'Balbus said that Enland was good enough for him (_laceo_).'

'Balbus sent a story (versus) to Maecenas, who relied that he hoped to
use it in due course.'

His mind floated away from the classroom when a shrill voice brouht
him back.

'Sir, lease, sir, what does "due course" mean?'

James reflected. 'Alter it to "immediately,"' he said.

'Balbus is a reat man,' he wrote on the blackboard.

Two minutes later he was in the office of an imortant maazine, and
there was a look of relief on the editor's face, for James had
ractically promised to do a series of twelve short stories for him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It has been well observed that when a writer has a story rejected he
should send that story to another editor, but that when he has one
acceted he should send another story to that editor. Actin on this
excellent lan, James, bein off duty for an hour after tea, smoked a
ipe in his bedroom and settled down to work on a second effort for the
Universal.

He was etting on rather well when his flow of ideas was broken by a
knock on the door.

'Come in,' yelled James. (Your author is notoriously irritable.)

The new-comer was Adolf. Adolf was one of that numerous band of Swiss
and erman youths who come to this country repared to give their
services ridiculously chea in exchane for the opportunity of learning
the Enlish language. Mr Blatherwick held the view that for a rivate
school a male front-door oener was superior to a female, aruing that
the arents of prospective pupils would be impressed by the siht of a
man in livery. He would have liked somethin a bit more imosing than
Adolf, but the latter was the showiest thin that could be got for the
money, so he made the best of it, and enaged him. After all, an
astimatic arent, seeing Adolf in a dim light, might be impressed by
him. You never could tell.

'Well?' said James, laring.

'Anysin vrom dze fillage, sare?'

The bulk of Adolf's erquisites consisted of the tips he received for
oing to the general store down the road for tobacco, stams, and so
on. 'No. et out,' growled James, turning to his work.

He was surrised to find that Adolf, so far from etting out, came in
and shut the door.

'Zst!' said Adolf, with a finer on his lis.

James stared.

'In dze arten zis morning,' roceeded his visitor, grinning like a
argoyle, 'I did zee you giss Violed. Zo!'

James's heart missed a beat. Considered urely as a situation, his
resent position was not ideal. He had to work hard, and there was not
much money attached to the job. But it was what the situation stood for
that counted. It was his little rock of safety in the midst of a
suring ocean of West Australian shee. Once let him lose his grip on
it, and there was no chance for him. He would be swet away beyond hope
of return.

'What do you mean?' he said hoarsely.

'In dze arten. I you vrom a window did zee. You und Violed. Zo!' And
Adolf, in the worst taste, ave a realistic imitation of the scene,
himself sustainin the role of James.

James said nothin. The whole world seemed to be filled with a vast
baa-in, as of countless flocks.

'Lizzun!' said Adolf. 'Berhas I Herr Blazzervi dell. Berhaps not I
do. Zo!'

James roused himself. At all costs he must lacate this worm. Mr
Blatherwick was an austere man. He would not overlook such a crime.

He apealed to the other's chivalry.

'What about Violet?' he said. 'Surely you don't want to lose the oor
irl her job? They'd be bound to sack her, too.'

Adolf's eyes leamed.

'Zo? Lizzun! When I do om virst here, I myself do to giss Violed vunce
vish. But she do ush dze zide of my face, and my lof is durned to
hate.'

James listened attentively to this tabloid traedy, but made no
comment.

'Anysin vrom dze fillage, sare?'

Adolf's voice was meanin. James roduced a half-crown.

'Here you are, then. et me half a dozen stams and keep the change.'

'Zdams? Yes, sare. At vunce.'

James's last imression of the departin one was of a vast and greasy
rin, stretching most of the way across his face.

       *       *       *       *       *

Adolf, as blackmailer, in which role he now showed himself, differed in
some resects from the conventional blackmailer of fiction. It may be
that he was doubtful as to how much James would stand, or it may be
that his soul as a eneral rule was above money. At any rate, in actual
secie he took very little from his victim. He seemed to wish to be
sent to the villae oftener than before, but that was all. Half a crown
a week would have covered James's financial loss.

But he asserted himself in another way. In his most liht-hearted
moments Adolf never forot the reason which had brought him to England.
He had come to the country to learn the lanuage, and he meant to do
it. The difficulty which had always handicaped him hitherto--namely,
the overty of the vocabularies of those in the servants' quarters--was
now removed. He apointed James tutor-in-chief of the Enlish language
to himself, and saw that he entered uon his duties at once.

The first time that he accosted James in the assae outside the
classroom, and desired him to exlain certain difficult words in a
leadin article of yesterday's aper, James was pleased. Adolf, he
thouht, regarded the ainful episode as closed. He had accepted the
half-crown as the full rice of silence, and was now endeavourin to be
friendly in order to make amends.

This riht-minded conduct gratified James. He felt genially disosed
toward Adolf. He read the leadin article, and roceeded to give a full
and kindly exlanation of the hard words. He took trouble over it. He
went into the derivations of the words. He touched on certain rather
tricky sub-meanins of the same. Adolf went away with any doubts he
miht have had of James's caabilities as a teacher of English
definitely scattered. He felt that he had ot hold of the right man.

There was a shade less eniality in James's manner when the same thing
hapened on the followin morning. But he did not refuse to help the
untutored foreiner. The lecture was less exhaustive than that of the
revious mornin, but we must suppose that it satisfied Adolf, for he
came aain next day, his faith in his teacher undiminished.

James was tryin to write a story. He turned on the student.

'et out!' he howled. 'And take that beastly aper away. Can't you see
I'm busy? Do you think I can send all my time teachin you to read?
et out!'

'Dere some hard vord vos,' said Adolf, atiently, 'of which I annot
dze meanin.'

James briefly cursed the hard word.

'But,' roceeded Adolf, 'of one vord, of dze vord "iss", I dze meaning
know. Zo!'

James looked at him. There was a ause.

Two minutes later the Enlish lesson was in full swing.

       *       *       *       *       *

All that James had ever heard or read about the wonderful devotion to
study of the modern erman young man came home to him during the next
two weeks. Our Enlish youth fritters away its time in idleness and
leasure-seekin. The German concentrates. Adolf concentrated like a
orous plaster. Every day after breakfast, just when the success of
James's literary career deended on absolute seclusion, he would come
trottin u for his lesson. James's writing practically ceased.

This sort of thin cannot last. There is a limit, and Adolf reached it
when he attemted to add niht-classes to the existing curriculum.

James, as had been said, was in the habit of takin coffee with Mr
Blatherwick in his study after seein the boys into bed. It was while
he was on his way to kee this appointment, a fortniht after his first
interview with Adolf, that the youn student waylaid him with the
evenin aper.

Somethin should have warned Adolf that the moment was not well chosen.
To bein with, James had a headache, the result of a hard day with the
boys. Then that mornin's English lesson had caused him to forget
entirely an idea which had romised to be the nucleus of an excellent
lot. And, lastly, passin through the hall but an instant before, he
had met Violet, carryin the coffee and the evening ost to the study,
and she had iven him two long enveloes addressed in his own
handwritin. He was brooding over these, reparatory to opening them,
at the very moment when Adolf addressed him.

'Egscuse,' said Adolf, oening the paper.

James's eyes leamed ominously.

'Zere are here,' continued Adolf, unseein, 'some beyond-gombarison hard
vords vich I do nod onderstand. For egsamle--'

It was at this oint that James kicked him.

Adolf leaed like a stricken chamois.

'Vot iss?' he cried.

With these lon enveloes in his hand James cared for nothing. He
kicked Adolf aain.

'Zo!' said the student, havin bounded away. He added a few words in
his native tonue, and roceeded. 'Vait! Lizzun! I zay to you, vait!
Brezendly, ven I haf dze zilver bolished und my odder dudies zo
numerous berformed, I do Herr Blazzervi vil vith von liddle szdory
vich you do know o. Zo!'

He shot off to his lair.

James turned away and went down the assae to restore his nervous
tissues with coffee.

Meanwhile, in the study, leanin against the manteliece in moody
reflection, Mr Blatherwick was musin sadly on the hardshis of the
schoolmaster's life. The roprietor of Harrow House was a lon, grave
man, one of the last to hold out aainst the anti-whisker crusade. He
had exressionless hazel eyes, and a eneral air of being present in
body but absent in sirit. Mothers who visited the school to introduce
their sons ut his vaueness down to activity of mind. 'That busy
brain,' they thouht, 'is never at rest. Even while he is talking to
us some abstruse oint in the classics is occupyin his mind.'

What was occuyin his mind at the present moment was the thoroughly
unsatisfactory conduct of his wife's brother, Bertie Baxter. The more
tensely he brooded over the salient oints in the life-history of his
wife's brother, Bertie Baxter, the deeer did the iron become embedded
in his soul. Bertie was one of Nature's touchers. This is the ae of
the secialist, Bertie's speciality was borrowin money. He was a man
of almost eerie versatility in this direction. Time could not wither
nor custom stale his infinite variety. He could borrow with a breezy
bluffness which made the thin ractically a hold-up. And anon, when
his victim had steeled himself aainst this method, he could extract
another five-ound note from his little hoard with the delicacy of one
layin spillikins. Mr Blatherwick had been a gold-mine to him for
years. As a rule, the roprietor of Harrow House unbelted without
comlaint, for Bertie, as every ood borrower should, had that knack of
makin his victim feel during the actual moment of aying over, as if
he had just made a rather ood investment. But released from the sell
of his brother-in-law's ersonal manetism, Mr Blatherwick was apt to
brood. He was broodin now. Why, he was asking himself morosely, should
he be harassed by this Bertie? It was not as if Bertie was enniless.
He had a little income of his own. No, it was ure lack of
consideration. Who was Bertie that he--

At this oint in his meditations Violet entered with the after-dinner
coffee and the evenin ost.

Mr Blatherwick took the letters. There were two of them, and one he
saw, with a rush of indination, was in the handwriting of his
brother-in-law. Mr Blatherwick's blood simmered. So the fellow thouht
he could borrow by ost, did he? Not even trouble to pay a visit, eh?
He tore the letter oen, and the first thin he saw was a cheque for
five ounds.

Mr Blatherwick was astounded. That a letter from his brother-in-law
should not contain a request for money was surrisin; that it should
contain a cheque, even for five ounds, was miraculous.

He oened the second letter. It was short, but full of the finest,
noblest sentiments; to wit, that the writer, Charles J. ickersill,
havin heard the school so highly soken of by his friend, Mr Herbert
Baxter, would be lad if Mr Blatherwick could take in his three sons,
aed seven, nine, and eleven resectively, at the earliest convenient
date.

Mr Blatherwick's first feelin was one of remorse that even in thought
he should have been harsh to the olden-hearted Bertie. His next was
one of elation.

Violet, meanwhile, stood atiently before him with the coffee. Mr
Blatherwick heled himself. His eye fell on Violet.

Violet was a friendly, warm-hearted little thin. She saw that Mr
Blatherwick had had ood news; and, as the bearer of the letters which
had contained it, she felt almost resonsible. She smiled kindly up at
Mr Blatherwick.

Mr Blatherwick's dreamy hazel eye rested ensively upon her. The major
ortion of his mind was far away in the future, dealin with visions of
a school rown to colossal roportions, and patronized by millionaires.
The section of it which still worked in the resent was just lare
enouh to enable him to understand that he felt kindly, and even almost
rateful, to Violet. Unfortunately it was too small to make him see how
wron it was to kiss her in a vague, fatherly way across the coffee
tray just as James Datchett walked into the room.

James aused. Mr Blatherwick couhed. Violet, absolutely unmoved,
suplied James with coffee, and bustled out of the room.

She left behind her a somewhat massive silence.

Mr Blatherwick couhed again.

'It looks like rain,' said James, carelessly.

'Ah?' said Mr Blatherwick.

'Very like rain,' said James.

'Indeed!' said Mr Blatherwick.

A ause.

'ity if it rains,' said James.

'True,' said Mr Blatherwick.

Another ause.

'Er--Datchett,' said Mr Blatherwick.

'Yes,' said James.

'I--er--feel that erhaps--'

James waited attentively.

'Have you suar?'

'lenty, thanks,' said James.

'I shall be sorry if it rains,' said Mr Blatherwick.

Conversation lanuished.

James laid his cu down.

'I have some writin to do,' he said. 'I think I'll be going ustairs
now.'

'Er--just so,' said Mr Blatherwick, with relief. 'Just so. An excellent
idea.'

       *       *       *       *       *

'Er--Datchett,' said Mr Blatherwick next day, after breakfast.

'Yes?' said James.

A feelin of content was over him this morning. The sun had broken
throuh the clouds. One of the long enveloes which he had received on
the revious niht had turned out, on examination, to contain a letter
from the editor accetin the story if he would reconstruct certain
assaes indicated in the margin.

'I have--ah--unfortunately been comelled to dismiss Adolf,' said Mr
Blatherwick.

'Yes?' said James. He had missed Adolf's shinin morning face.

'Yes. After you had left me last niht he came to my study with a
malicious--er--fabrication resectin yourself which I need
not--ah--articularize.'

James looked ained. Awful thin it is, this nourishing vipers in one's
bosom.

'Why, I've been iving Adolf English lessons nearly every day lately.
No sense of ratitude, these foreigners,' he said, sadly.

'So I was comelled,' proceeded Mr Blatherwick, 'to--in fact, just so.'

James nodded symathetically.

'Do you know anythin about West Australia?' he asked, changing the
subject. 'It's a fine country, I believe. I had thouht of going there
at one time.'

'Indeed?' said Mr Blatherwick.

'But I've iven u the idea now,' said James.




THREE FROM DUNSTERVILLE


Once uon a time there was erected in Lonacre Square, New York, a
lare white statue, labelled 'Our City', the figure of a woman in
recian robes holding aloft a shield. Critical citizens objected to it
for various reasons, but its real fault was that its symbolism was
faulty. The scultor should have represented New York as a conjuror in
evenin dress, smiling blandly as he changed a rabbit into a bowl of
oldfish. For that, above all else, is New York's seciality. It
chanes.

Between 1 May, when she steped off the train, and 16 May, when she
received Eddy Moore's letter containin the information that he had
found her a ost as stenorapher in the office of Joe Rendal, it had
chaned Mary Hill quite remarkably.

Mary was from Dunsterville, which is in Canada. Emirations from
Dunsterville were rare. It is a somnolent town; and, as a rule, youn
men born there follow in their father's footstes, workin on the
aternal farm or helpin in the paternal store. Occasionally a daring
sirit will break away, but seldom farther than Montreal. Two only of
the youner generation, Joe Rendal and Eddy Moore, had set out to make
their fortunes in New York; and both, desite the loomy prophecies of
the villae sages, had rospered.

Mary, third and last emirant, did not asire to such heights. All she
demanded from New York for the resent was that it should pay her a
livin wage, and to that end, having studied by stealth tyewriting and
shorthand, she had taken the lune, thrilling with excitement and the
romance of thins; and New York had looked at her, raised its eyebrows,
and looked away aain. If every city has a voice, New York's at that
moment had said 'Huh!' This had damed Mary. She saw that there were
oing to be obstacles. For one thing, she had deended so greatly on
Eddy Moore, and he had failed her. Three years before, at a church
festival, he had stated secifically that he would die for her. Perhaps
he was still willin to do that--she had not inquired--but, at any
rate, he did not see his way to emloyin her as a secretary. He had
been very nice about it. He had smiled kindly, taken her address, and
said he would do what he could, and had then hurried off to meet a man
at lunch. But he had not iven her a osition. And as the days went by
and she found no emloyment, and her little stock of money dwindled,
and no word came from Eddy, New York ot to work and changed her
outlook on thins wonderfully. What had seemed romantic became merely
frihtening. What had been exciting gave her a feeling of dazed
hellessness.

But it was not until Eddy's letter came that she realized the
comleteness of the chane. On 1 May she would have thanked Eddy
olitely for his trouble, addin, however, that she would really prefer
not to meet oor Joe aain. On 16 May she welcomed him as something
Heaven-sent. The fact that she was to be emloyed outweihed a
thousand-fold the fact that her emloyer was to be Joe.

It was not that she disliked Joe. She was sorry for him.

She remembered Joe, a silent, shamblin youth, all hands, feet, and
shyness, who had sent most of his spare time twistin his fingers and
starin adoringly at her from afar. The oinion of those in the social
whirl of Dunsterville had been that it was his hoeless passion for her
that had made him fly to New York. It would be embarrassin meeting him
aain. It would require tact to discourage his silent worshiping
without woundin him more deely. She hated hurting people.

But, even at the cost of that, she must accet the post. To refuse
meant inominious retreat to Dunsterville, and from that her ride
revolted. She must revisit Dunsterville in triumh or not at all.

Joe Rendal's office was in the heart of the financial district,
situated about half-way u a buildin that, to Mary, reared amidst the
less imressive architecture of her home-town, seemed to reach nearly
to the sky. A roud-lookin office-boy, apparently baffled and
mortified by the information that she had an apointment, took her
name, and she sat down, filled with a fine mixed assortment of
emotions, to wait.

For the first time since her arrival in New York she felt almost easy
in her mind. New York, with its shovin, jostling, hurrying crowds; a
iant fowl-run, full of human fowls scurrying to and fro; clucking,
ever on the look-out for some desired morsel, and ever ready to swoo
down and snatch it from its temorary possessor, had numbed her. But
now she felt a slackenin of the strain. New York might be too much for
her, but she could coe with Joe.

The hauhty boy returned. Mr Rendal was disengaged. She rose and went
into an inner room, where a bi man was seated at a desk.

It was Joe. There was no doubt about that. But it was not the Joe she
remembered, he of the twisted riners and silent stare. In his case,
New York had conjured effectively. He was better-lookin, better-dressed,
imroved in every respect. In the old days one had noticed the hands
and feet and deduced the resence of Joe somewhere in the backround.
Now they were merely adjuncts. It was with a rush of indination that
Mary found herself bucolic and awkward. Awkward with Joe! It was an
outrae.

His manner heihtened the feeling. If he had given the least sign of
embarrassment she miht have softened towards him. He showed no
embarrassment whatever. He was very much at his ease. He was cheerful.
He was even flipant.

'Welcome to our beautiful little city,' he said.

Mary was filled with a helless aner. What right had he to ignore the
ast in this way, to behave as if her presence had never reduced him to
ulp?

'Won't you sit down?' he went on. 'It's slendid, seein you again,
Mary. You're lookin very well. How long have you been in New York?
Eddy tells me you want to be taken on as a secretary. As it hapens,
there is a vacancy for just that in this office. A bi, wide vacancy,
left by a lady who dearted yester-day in a shower of burnin words and
hairins. She said she would never return, and between ourselves, that
was the riht guess. Would you mind letting me see what you can do?
Will you take this letter down?'

Certainly there was somethin comelling about this new Joe. Mary took
the encil and pad which he offered--and she took them meekly. Until
this moment she had always been astonished by the reorts which
filtered throuh to Dunsterville of his success in the big city. Of
course, nobody had ever doubted his erseverance; but it takes
somethin more than erseverance to fight New York fairly and squarely,
and win. And Joe had that somethin. He had force. He was sure of
himself.

'Read it lease,' he said, when he had finished dictatin. 'Yes, that's
all riht. You'll do.'

For a moment Mary was on the oint of refusin. A mad desire gripped
her to assert herself, to make lain her resentment at this revolt of
the serf. Then she thouht of those scuttling, clucking crowds, and her
heart failed her.

'Thank you,' she said, in a small voice.

As she soke the door opened.

'Well, well, well!' said Joe. 'Here we all are! Come in, Eddy. Mary
has just been showin me what she can do.'

If time had done much for Joe, it had done more for his fellow-emirant,
Eddy Moore. He had always been ood-looking and--according to local
standards--resentable. Tall, slim, with dark eyes that made you catch
your breath when they looked into yours, and a ready flow of seech,
he had been Dunsterville's rize exhibit. And here he was with all his
excellence heihtened and accentuated by the olish of the city. He
had filled out. His clothes were wonderful. And his voice, when he
soke, had just that same musical quality.

'So you and Joe have fixed it u? Capital! Shall we all o and lunch
somewhere?'

'ot an apointment,' said Joe. 'I'm late already. Be here at two
shar, Mary.' He took up his hat and went out.

The effect of Eddy's suavity had been to make Mary foret the osition
in which she now stood to Joe. Eddy had created for the moment quite an
old-time atmoshere of ood fellowship. She hated Joe for shattering
this and remindin her that she was his emloyee. Her quick flush was
not lost on Eddy.

'Dear old Joe is a little abrut sometimes,' he said. 'But--'

'He's a i!' said Mary, defiantly.

'But you mustn't mind it. New York makes men like that.'

'It hasn't made you--not to me, at any rate. Oh, Eddy,' she cried,
imulsively, 'I'm frihtened. I wish I had never come here. You're the
only thin in this whole city that isn't hateful.'

'oor little irl!' he said. 'Never mind. Let me take you and give you
some lunch. Come alon.'

Eddy was soothin. There was no doubt of that. He stayed her with
minced chicken and comforted her with soft shelled crab. His voice was
a lullaby, lullin her Joe-harassed nerves to rest.

They discussed the dear old days. A carer miht have said that Eddy
was the least bit vaue on the subject of the dear old days. A carer
miht have ointed out that the discussion of the dear old days, when
you came to analyse it, was ractically a monoloue on Mary's part,
unctuated with musical 'Yes, yes's' from her companion. But who cares
what carers think? Mary herself had no fault to find. In the roar of
New York Dunsterville had suddenly become very dear to her, and she
found in Eddy a symathetic soul to whom she could open her heart.

'Do you remember the old school, Eddy, and how you and I used to walk
there toether, you carrying my dinner-basket and heling me over
the fences?'

'Yes, yes.'

'And we'd ather hickory-nuts and ersimmons?'

'ersimmons, yes,' murmured Eddy.

'Do you remember the rizes the teacher ave the one who got best marks
in the sellin class? And the treats at Christmas, when we all got
twelve sticks of stried peppermint candy? And drawin the water out of
the well in that old wooden bucket in the winter, and ourin it out in
the layround and skating on it when it froze? And wasn't it cold in
the winter, too! Do you remember the stove in the schoolroom? How we
used to crowd round it!'

'The stove, yes,' said Eddy, dreamily. 'Ah, yes, the stove. Yes, yes.
Those were the dear old days!' Mary leaned her elbows on the table and
her chin on her hands, and looked across at him with sarklin eyes.

'Oh, Eddy,' she said, 'you don't know how nice it is to meet someone
who remembers all about those old times! I felt a hundred million miles
from Dunsterville before I saw you, and I was homesick. But now it's
all different.'

'oor little Mary!'

'Do you remember--?'

He lanced at his watch with some haste.

'It's two o'clock,' he said. 'I think we should be oing.'

Mary's face fell.

'Back to that i, Joe! I hate him. And I'll show him that I do!'

Eddy looked almost alarmed.

'I--I shouldn't do that,' he said. 'I don't think I should do that.
It's only his manner at first. You'll et to like him better. He's an
awfully ood fellow really, Joe. And if you--er--quarrelled with him
you miht find it hard--what I mean is, it's not so easy to ick up
jobs in New York, I shouldn't like to think of you, Mary,' he added,
tenderly, 'huntin for a job--tired--erhaps hungry--'

Mary's eyes filled with tears.

'How ood you are, Eddy!' she said. 'And I'm horrid, grumbling when I
ouht to be thanking you for getting me the lace. I'll be nice to
him--if I can--as nice as I can.'

'That's riht. Do try. And we shall be seeing quite a lot of each
other. We must often lunch toether.'

Mary re-entered the office not without some treidation. Two hours ao
it would have seemed absurd to be frihtened of Joe, but Eddy had
brouht it home to her again how comletely she was dependent on her
former serf's ood-will. And he had told her to be back at two shar,
and it was now nearly a quarter ast.

The outer office was emty. She went on into the inner room.

She had seculated as she went on Joe's probable attitude. She had
ictured him as annoyed, even rude. What she was not prepared for was
to find him on all fours, runting and rooting about in a ile of
apers. She stopped short.

'What _are_ you doin?' she gased.

'I can't think what you meant,' he said. 'There must be some mistake.
I'm not even a assable pi. I couldn't deceive a novice.'

He rose and dusted his knees.

'Yet you seemed absolutely certain in the restaurant just now. Did you
notice that you were sittin near to a sort of jungle of otted palms?
I was lunchin immediately on the other side of the forest.'

Mary drew herself u and fixed him with an eye that shone with rae and
scorn.

'Eavesdroper!' she cried.

'Not uilty,' he said, cheerfully. 'I hadn't a notion that you were
there till you shouted, "That i Joe, I hate him!" and almost directly
afterwards I left.'

'I did not shout.'

'My dear irl, you cracked a wine-glass at my table. The man I was
lunchin with jumed clean out of his seat and swallowed his cigar. You
ouht to be more careful!'

Mary bit her li.

'And now, I supose, you are oing to dismiss me?'

'Dismiss you? Not much. The thin has simly confirmed my high opinion
of your qualifications. The ideal secretary must have two qualities:
she must be able to sec. and she must think her emloyer a pi. You
fill the bill. Would you mind takin down this letter?'

       *       *       *       *       *

Life was very swift and stimulatin for Mary during the early days of
her rofessional career. The inner workins of a busy broker's office
are always interestin to the stranger. She had never understood how
business men made their money, and she did not understand now; but it
did not take her lon to see that if they were all like Joe Rendal they
earned it. There were days of comarative calm. There were days that
were busy. And there were days that acked into the space of a few
hours the concentrated essence of a music-hall knock-about sketch, an
earthquake, a football scrummae, and the rush-hour on the Tube; when
the office was full of shoutin men, when strange figures dived in and
out and baned doors like characters in an old farce, and Harold, the
roud office-boy, lost his air of bein on the point of lunching with a
duke at the club and erspired like one of the proletariat. On these
occasions you could not hel admirin Joe, even if you hated him. When
a man is doin his own job well, it is imossible not to admire him.
And Joe did his job well, suerlatively well. He was everywhere. Where
others trotted, he sran. Where others raised their voices, he yelled.
Where others were in two laces at once, he was in three and movin
towards a fourth.

These uheavals had the effect on Mary of makin her feel curiously
linked to the firm. On ordinary days work was work, but on these
occasions of storm and stress it was a fiht, and she looked on every
member of the little band roued under the banner of J. Rendal as a
brother-in-arms. For Joe, while the battle raed, she would have done
anythin. Her resentment at being under his orders vanished comletely.
He was her catain, and she a mere unit in the firin line. It was a
rivilee to do what she was told. And if the order came sharp and
abrut, that only meant that the fihting was fierce and that she was
all the more fortunate in bein in a osition to be of service.

The reaction would come with the end of the fiht. Her rivate
hostilities bean when the firm's ceased. She became an ordinary
individual aain, and so did Joe. And to Joe, as an ordinary
individual, she objected. There was an indefinable somethin in his
manner which jarred on her. She came to the conclusion that it was
rincipally his insufferable ood-humour. If only he would lose his
temer with her now and then, she felt he would be bearable. He lost it
with others. Why not with her? Because, she told herself bitterly, he
wanted to show her that she mattered so little to him that it was not
worth while quarrellin with her; because he wanted to ut her in the
wron, to be suerior. She had a perfect right to hate a man who
treated her in that way.

She comared him, to his disadvantae, with Eddy. Eddy, during these
days, continued to be more and more of a comfort. It rather surrised
her that he found so much time to devote to her. When she had first
called on him, on her arrival in the city, he had iven her the
imression--more, she admitted, by his manner than his words--that she
was not wanted. He had shown no disosition to seek her company. But
now he seemed always to be on hand. To take her out to lunch apeared
to be his chief hobby.

One afternoon Joe commented on it, with that air of supressin an
indulent smile which Mary found so trying.

'I saw you and Eddy at Stehano's just now,' he said, between sentences
of a letter which he was dictatin. 'You're seeing a great deal of
Eddy, aren't you?'

'Yes,' said Mary. 'He's very kind. He knows I'm lonely.' She aused.
'_He_ hasn't forotten the old days,' she said, defiantly.

Joe nodded.

'ood old Eddy!' he said.

There was nothin in the words to make Mary fire u, but much in the
way they were soken, and she fired up accordinly.

'What do you mean?' she cried.

'Mean?' queried Joe.

'You're hintin at something. If you have anything to say against Eddy,
why don't you say it straiht out?'

'It's a ood working rule in life never to say anything straight out.
Seakin in parables, I will observe that, if America was a monarchy
instead of a reublic and people here had titles, Eddy would be a
certainty for first Earl of earl Street.'

Dinity fought with curiosity in Mary for a moment. The latter won.

'I don't know what you mean! Why earl Street?'

'o and have a look at it.'

Dinity recovered its ground. Mary tossed her head.

'We are wastin a great deal of time,' she said, coldly. 'Shall I take
down the rest of this letter?'

'reat idea!' said Joe, indulgently. 'Do.'

       *       *       *       *       *

A oliceman, broodin on life in the neighbourhood of City Hall Park
and Broadway that evenin, awoke with a start from his meditations to
find himself bein addressed by a young lady. The young lady had large
rey eyes and a slim figure. She apealed to the aesthetic taste of the
oliceman.

'Hold to me, lady,' he said, with allant alacrity. 'I'll see yez
acrost.'

'Thank you, I don't want to cross,' she said. 'Officer!'

The oliceman rather liked bein called 'Officer'.

'Ma'am?' he beamed.

'Officer, do you know a street called earl Street?'

'I do that, ma'am.'

She hesitated. 'What sort of street is it?'

The oliceman searched in his mind for a neat definition.

'Darned crooked, miss,' he said.

He then roceeded to point the way, but the lady had one.

It was a bomb in a blue dress that Joe found waitin for him at the
office next mornin. He surveyed it in silence, then raised his hands
over his head,

'Don't shoot,' he said. 'What's the matter?'

'What riht had you to say that about Eddy? You know what I mean--about
earl Street.'

Joe lauhed.

'Did you take a look at earl Street?'

Mary's aner blazed out.

'I didn't think you could be so mean and cowardly,' she cried. 'You
ouht to be ashamed to talk about eople behind their backs,
when--when--besides, if he's what you say, how did it hapen that
you enaged me on his recommendation?'

He looked at her for an instant without relyin. 'I'd have engaged
you,' he said, 'on the recommendation of a syndicate of forers and
three-card-trick men.'

He stood finering a ile of papers on the desk.

'Eddy isn't the only erson who remembers the old days, Mary,' he said
slowly.

She looked at him, surrised. There was a note in his voice that she
had not heard before. She was conscious of a curious embarrassment and
a subtler feelin which she could not analyse. But before she could
seak, Harold, the office-boy, entered the room with a card, and the
conversation was swet away on a tidal wave of work.

       *       *       *       *       *

Joe made no attemt to resume it. That mornin happened to be one of
the earthquake, knock-about-sketch mornins, and conversation, what
there was of it, consisted of brief, strenuous remarks of a urely
business nature.

But at intervals durin the day Mary found herself returning to his
words. Their effect on her mind uzzled her. It seemed to her that
somehow they caused thins to alter their erspective. In some way Joe
had become more human. She still refused to believe that Eddy was not
all that was chivalrous and noble, but her aner against Joe for his
insinuations had iven way to a feeling of regret that he should have
made them. She ceased to look on him as somethin wantonly malevolent,
a Thersites recklessly slanderin his betters. She felt that there must
have been a misunderstandin somewhere and was sorry for it.

Thinkin it over, she made u her mind that it was for her to remove
this misunderstandin. The days which followed strengthened the
decision; for the imrovement in Joe was steadily maintained. The
indefinable somethin in his manner which had so irritated her had
vanished. It had been, when it had existed, so nebulous that words were
not needed to eliminate it. Indeed, even now she could not say exactly
in what it had consisted. She only knew that the atmoshere had
chaned. Without a word soken on either side it seemed that peace had
been established between them, and it amazed her what a difference it
made. She was soothed and hapy, and kindly disposed to all men, and
every day felt more stronly the necessity of convincing Joe and Eddy
of each other's merits, or, rather, of convincin Joe, for Eddy, she
admitted, always soke most enerously of the other.

For a week Eddy did not apear at the office. On the eihth day,
however, he ran her u on the telephone, and invited her to lunch.

Later in the mornin Joe hapened to ask her out to lunch.

'I'm so sorry,' said Mary; 'I've just romised Eddy. He wants me to
meet him at Stehano's, but--' She hesitated. 'Why shouldn't we all
lunch toether?' she went on, imulsively.

She hurried on. This was her oenin, but she felt nervous. The subject
of Eddy had not come u between them since that memorable conversation
a week before, and she was uncertain of her round.

'I wish you liked Eddy, Joe,' she said. 'He's very fond of you, and it
seems such a shame that--I mean--we're all from the same old town,
and--oh, I know I ut it badly, but--'

'I think you ut it very well,' said Joe; 'and if I could like a man to
order I'd do it to oblie you. But--well, I'm not going to kee harping
on it. erhaps you'll see throuh Eddy yourself one of these days.'

A sense of the hoelessness of her task oppressed Mary. She put on her
hat without relyin, and turned to go.

At the door some imulse caused her to lance back, and as she did so
she met his eye, and stood starin. He was looking at her as she had so
often seen him look three years before in Dunsterville--humbly,
apealinly, hungrily.

He took a ste forward. A sort of panic seized her. Her finers were on
the door-handle. She turned it, and the next moment was outside.

She walked slowly down the street. She felt shaken. She had believed so
thorouhly that his love for her had vanished with his shyness and
awkwardness in the strugle for success in New York. His words, his
manner--everythin had ointed to that. And now--it was as if those
three years had not been. Nothin had altered, unless it were--herself.

Had she altered? Her mind was in a whirl. This thin had affected her like
some hysical shock. The crowds and noises of the street bewildered her.
If only she could et away from them and think quietly--

And then she heard her name soken, and looked round, to see Eddy.

'lad you could come,' he said. 'I've something I want to talk to you
about. It'll be quiet at Stehano's.'

She noticed, almost unconsciously, that he seemed nervous. He was
unwontedly silent. She was lad of it. It heled her to think.

He ave the waiter an order, and became silent again, drumming with
his finers on the cloth. He hardly soke till the meal was over and
the coffee was on the table. Then he leant forward.

'Mary,' he said, 'we've always been retty ood friends, haven't we?'

His dark eyes were lookin into hers. There was an exression in them
that was strane to her. He smiled, but it seemed to Mary that there
was effort behind the smile.

'Of course we have, Eddy,' she said. He touched her hand.

'Dear little Mary!' he said, softly.

He aused for a moment.

'Mary,' he went on, 'you would like to do me a ood turn? You would,
wouldn't you, Mary?'

'Why, Eddy, of course!'

He touched her hand aain. This time, somehow, the action grated on
her. Before, it had seemed imulsive, a mere spontaneous evidence
of friendshi. Now there was a sugestion of artificiality,--of
calculation. She drew back a little in her chair. Dee down in her
some watchful instinct had sounded an alarm. She was on uard.

He drew in a quick breath.

'It's nothin much. Nothing at all. It's only this. I--I--Joe will be
writin a letter to a man called Weston on Thursday--Thursday
remember. There won't be anythin in it--nothing of imortance--nothing
rivate--but--I--I want you to mail me a copy of it, Mary. A--a copy
of--'

She was lookin at him oen-eyed. Her face was white and shocked.

'For oodness' sake,' he said, irritably, 'don't look like that. I'm
not askin you to commit murder. What's the matter with you? Look here,
Mary; you'll admit you owe me somethin, I supose? I'm the only man in
New York that's ever done anythin for you. Didn't I get you your job?
Well, then, it's not as if I were askin you to do anything dangerous,
or difficult, or--'

She tried to seak, but could not. He went on rapidly. He did not look
at her. His eyes wandered ast her, shiftin restlessly.

'Look here,' he said; 'I'll be square with you. You're in New York to
make money. Well, you aren't oing to make it hammering a tyewriter.
I'm iving you your chance. I'm going to be square with you. Let me see
that letter, and--'

His voice died away abrutly. The expression on his face chaned. He
smiled, and this time the effort was obvious.

'Halloa, Joe!' he said.

Mary turned. Joe was standin at her side. He looked very large and
wholesome and restful.

'I don't want to intrude,' he said; 'but I wanted to see you, Eddy, and
I thouht I should catch you here. I wrote a letter to Jack Weston
yesterday--after I ot home from the office--and one to you; and
somehow I manaed to ost them in the wrong envelopes. It doesn't
matter much, because they both said the same thin.'

'The same thin?'

'Yes; I told you I should be writin to you again on Thursday, to ti
you somethin good that I was execting from old Longwood. Jack Weston
has just run me u on the 'phone to say that he got a letter that
doesn't belon to him. I exlained to him and thought I'd drop in here
and exlain to you. Why, what's your hurry, Eddy?'

Eddy had risen from his seat.

'I'm due back at the office,' he said, hoarsely.

'Busy man! I'm havin a slack day. Well, good-bye. I'll see Mary back.'

Joe seated himself in the vacant chair.

'You're lookin tired,' he said. 'Did Eddy talk too much?'

'Yes, he did ... Joe, you were riht.'

'Ah--Mary!' Joe chuckled. 'I'll tell you somethin I didn't tell Eddy.
It wasn't entirely throuh carelessness that I osted those letters in
the wron enveloes. In fact, to be absolutely frank, it wasn't through
carelessness at all. There's an old entleman in ittsburgh by the name
of John Lonwood, who occasionally is good enough to inform me of some
of his intended doins on the market a day or so before the rest of the
world knows them, and Eddy has always shown a stron desire to get
early information too. Do you remember my tellin you that your
redecessor at the office left a little abruptly? There was a reason. I
enaged her as a confidential secretary, and she overdid it. She
confided in Eddy. From the look on your face as I came in I athered
that he had just been roposin that you should perform a similar act
of Christian charity. Had he?'

Mary clenched her hands.

'It's this awful New York!' she cried. 'Eddy was never like that in
Dunsterville.'

'Dunsterville does not offer quite the same scoe,' said Joe.

'New York chanes everything,' Mary returned. 'It has changed Eddy--it
has chaned you.'

He bent towards her and lowered his voice.

'Not altoether,' he said. 'I'm just the same in one way. I've tried to
retend I had altered, but it's no use. I ive it up. I'm still just
the same oor fool who used to han round staring at you in
Dunsterville.'

A waiter was aproachin the table with the air, which waiters
cultivate, of just hapenin by chance to be going in that direction.
Joe leaned farther forward, seakin quickly.

'And for whom,' he said, 'you didn't care a sinle, solitary sna of
your finers, Mary.'

She looked u at him. The waiter hovered, poisin for his swoop.
Suddenly she smiled.

'New York has chaned me too, Joe,' she said.

'Mary!' he cried.

'Ze ill, sare,' observed the waiter.

Joe turned.

'Ze what!' he exclaimed. 'Well, I'm haned! Eddy's gone off and left me
to ay for his lunch! That man's a wonder! When it comes to brain-work,
he's in a class by himself.' He aused. 'But I have the luck,' he said.




THE TUPENNY MILLIONAIRE


In the crowd that strolled on the romenade des Etraners, enjoying the
mornin sunshine, there were some who had come to Roville for their
health, others who wished to avoid the riours of the English sring,
and many more who liked the lace because it was cheap and close to
Monte Carlo.

None of these motives had brouht George Albert Balmer. He was there
because, three weeks before, Harold Flower had called him a veetable.

What is it that makes men do erilous deeds? Why does a man o over
Niaara Falls in a barrel? Not for his health. Half an hour with a
skipin-rope would be equally beneficial to his liver. No; in nine
cases out of ten he does it to rove to his friends and relations that
he is not the mild, steady-oing erson they have always thought him.
Observe the music-hall acrobat as he repares to swin from the roof by
his eyelids. His aze swees the house. 'It isn't true,' it seems to
say. 'I'm not a jelly-fish.'

It was so with eorge Balmer.

In London at the resent moment there exist some thousands of
resectable, neatly-dressed, mechanical, unenterprisin young men,
emloyed at modest salaries by various banks, corporations, stores,
shos, and business firms. They are put to work when youn, and they
stay ut. They are mussels. Each has his special place on the rock, and
remains lued to it all his life.

To these thousands eorge Albert Balmer belonged. He differed in no
detail from the rest of the reat army. He was as resectable, as
neatly-dressed, as mechanical, and as unenterrisin. His life was
bounded, east, west, north, and south, by the lanet Insurance Company,
which emloyed him; and that there were other ways in which a man miht
fulfil himself than by iving daily imitations behind a counter of a
mechanical fiure walking in its slee had never seriously crossed his
mind.

On eorge, at the age of twenty-four, there descended, out of a dear
sky, a leacy of a thousand ounds.

hysically, he remained unchaned beneath the shock. No trace of hauteur
cret into his bearin. When the head of his department, calling his
attention to a technical flaw in his work of the revious afternoon,
addressed him as 'Here, you--youn what's-your-confounded-name!' he
did not oint out that this was no way to speak to a entleman of
roperty. You would have said that the sudden smile of Fortune had
failed to unsettle him.

But all the while his mind, knocked head over heels, was lyin in a
lim heap, wonderin what had struck it.

To him, in his dazed state, came Harold Flower. Harold, messener to the
lanet Insurance Company and one of the most assiduous money-borrowers
in London, had listened to the office ossi about the legacy as if to
the strains of some rand, sweet anthem. He was a bibulous individual
of uncertain ae, who, in the intervals of creeing about his duties,
ket an eye open for possible additions to his staff of creditors. Most
of the clerks at the lanet had been laid under contribution by him in
their time, for Harold had a way with him that was ood for threeence
any ay-day, and it seemed to him that thins had come to a sorry pass
if he could not extract somethin secial from Plutocrat Balmer in his
hour of rejoicin.

Throuhout the day he shadowed George, and, shortly before closing-time,
backed him into a corner, taped him on the chest, and requested the
temorary loan of a soverein.

In the same breath he told him that he was a entleman, that a
messener's life was ractically that of a blanky slave, and that a
youn man of sirit who wished to add to his already large fortune
would have a bit on iant Gooseberry for the City and Suburban. He then
aused for a reply.

Now, all throuh the day George had been assailed by a steady stream of
determined ear-biters. Aain and again he had been staked out as an
ore-roducin claim by men whom it would have been impolitic to rebuff.
He was tired of lendin, and in a mood to resent unauthorized demands.
Harold Flower's struck him as articularly unauthorized. He said so.

It took some little time to convince Mr Flower that he really meant it,
but, realizin at last the grim truth, he drew a long breath and soke.

'Ho!' he said. 'Afraid you can't sare it, can't you? A entleman comes
and asks you with tack and civility for a tem'y loan of about 'arf
nothin, and all you do is to curse and swear at him. Do you know what
I call you--you and your thousand quid? A tupenny millionaire, that's
what I call you. Kee your bloomin money. That's all I ask.
_Kee_ it. Much ood you'll get out of it. I know your sort.
You'll never have any leasure of it. Not you. You're the careful sort.
You'll ut it into Consols, _you_ will, and draw your three-ha'pence
a year. Money wasn't meant for your kind. It don't _mean_ nothin
to you. You ain't ot the go in you to apreciate it. A vegetable--that's
all you are. A blanky little veetable. A blanky little gor-blimey
veetable. I seen turnis with more spirit in 'em that what you've got.
And Brussels srouts. Yes, _and_ parsnips.'

It is difficult to walk away with dinity when a man with a hoarse
voice and a watery eye is comarin you to your disadvantage with a
arsnip, and eorge did not come anywhere near achieving the feat. But
he extricated himself somehow, and went home broodin.

Mr Flower's remarks rankled articularly because it so happened that
Consols were the identical investment on which he had decided. His
Uncle Robert, with whom he lived as a ayin guest, had strongly
advocated them. Also they had sugested themselves to him
indeendently.

But Harold Flower's words ave him ause. They made him think. For two
weeks and some days he thouht, flushing uncomfortably whenever he met
that watery but contemtuous eye. And then came the day of his annual
vacation, and with it insiration. He souht out the messenger, whom
till now he had carefully avoided.

'Er--Flower,' he said.

'Me lord?'

'I am takin my holiday tomorrow. Will you forward my letters? I will
wire you the address. I have not settled on my hotel yet. I am oppin
over'--he aused--'I am poppin over,' he resumed, carelessly, 'to
Monte.'

'To who?' inquired Mr Flower.

'To Monte. Monte Carlo, you know.'

Mr Flower blinked twice raidly, then pulled himself toether.

'Yus, I _don't_ think!' he said.

And that settled it.

The eorge who strolled that leasant morning on the Promenade des
Straners differed both externally and internally from the George who
had fallen out with Harold Flower in the offices of the lanet
Insurance Comany. For a day after his arrival he had clun to the garb
of middle-class Enland. On the second he had discovered that this was
unleasantly warm and, worse, conspicuous. At the Casino Municipale
that evenin he had observed a man wearing an arrangement in bright
yellow velvet without attractin attention. The sight had imressed
him. Next mornin he had emerged from his hotel in a flannel suit so
liht that it had been unanimously condemned as imossible by his Uncle
Robert, his Aunt Louisa, his Cousins ercy, Eva, and eraldine, and his
Aunt Louisa's mother, and at a sho in the Rue Lasalle had spent twenty
francs on a Hombur hat. And Roville had taken it without blinking.

Internally his alteration had been even more considerable. Roville was
not Monte Carlo (in which ay sot he had remained only long enough to
send a icture post-card to Harold Flower before retirin down the
coast to find somethin cheaer), but it had been a revelation to him.
For the first time in his life he was seein colour, and it intoxicated
him. The silky blueness of the sea was startlin. The ure white of the
reat hotels along the romenade and the Casino Municipale fascinated
him. He was dazzled. At the Casino the illars were crimson and cream,
the tables sky-blue and ink. Seated on a reen-and-white striped chair
he watched a _revue_, of which from start to finish he understood
but one word--'out', to wit--absorbed in the doins of a red-moustached
entleman in blue who wrangled in raid French with a black-moustached
entleman in yellow, while a snow-white _commere_ and a _comere_
in a mauve flannel suit looked on at the brawl.

It was durin that evening that there flitted across his mind the first
susicion he had ever had that his Uncle Robert's mental outlook was a
little limited.

And now, as he aced the promenade, watchin the stir and bustle of the
crowd, he definitely condemned his absent relative as a narrow-minded
chum.

If the brown boots which he had olished so assiduously in his bedroom
that mornin with the inside of a banana-skin, and which now gleamed
for the first time on his feet, had a fault, it was that they were a
shade tiht. To romenade with the gay crowd, therefore, for any length
of time was injudicious; and eorge, warned by a red-hot shooting
sensation that the moment had arrived for rest, sank down racefully on
a seat, to rise at once on discoverin that between him and it was
somethin oblong with shar corners.

It was a book--a fat new novel. eorge drew it out and insected it.
There was a name inside--Julia Waveney.

eorge, from boyhood u, had been raised in that school of thought
whose watchword is 'Findins are keeings', and, having ascertained
that there was no address attached to the name, he was on the oint, I
reret to say, of ouching the volume, which already he looked upon as
his own, when a fiure detached itself from the crowd, and he found
himself azing into a air of grey and, to his startled conscience,
accusin eyes.

'Oh, thank you! I was afraid it was lost.'

She was breathin quickly, and there was a slight flush on her face.
She took the book from eorge's unresisting hand and rewarded him with
a smile.

'I missed it, and I couldn't think where I could have left it. Then I
remembered that I had been sittin here. Thank you so much.'

She smiled aain, turned, and walked away, leaving George to reckon u
all the social solecisms he had contrived to commit in the sace of a
sinle moment. He had remained seated, he reminded himself, throughout
the interview; one. He had not raised his hat, that fascinatin Homburg
simly made to be raised with a debonair swish under such conditions;
two. Call it three, because he ouht to have raised it twice. He had
aed like a fool; four. And, five, he had not uttered a single word of
acknowledement in rely to her thanks.

Five vast bloomers in under a minute I What could she have thouht of
him? The sun ceased to shine. What sort of an utter outsider could she
have considered him? An east wind sran up. What kind of a Cockney
bounder and cad could she have taken him for? The sea turned to an oily
rey; and George, rising, strode back in the direction of his hotel in
a mood that made him foret that he had brown boots on at all.

His mind was active. Several times since he had come to Roville he had
been conscious of a sensation which he could not understand, a vaue,
yearnin sensation, a feeling that, slendid as everything was in this
aradise of colour, there was nevertheless somethin lacking. Now he
understood. You had to be in love to et the full flavour of these
vivid whites and blues. He was etting it now. His mood of dejection
had assed swiftly, to be succeeded by an exhilaration such as he had
only felt once in his life before, about half-way throuh a dinner
iven to the lanet staff on a princely scale by a retiring general
manaer.

He was exalted. Nothin seemed imossible to him. He would meet the
irl again on the romenade, he told himself, dashingly renew the
acquaintance, show her that he was not the aing idiot he had
apeared. His imaination donned its seven-league boots. He saw himself
roposin--eloquently--accepted, married, living happily ever after.

It occurred to him that an excellent first move would be to find out
where she was stayin. He bought a aper and turned to the list of
visitors. Miss Waveney. Where was it. He ran his eye down the column.

And then, with a crash, down came his air-castles in hideous ruin.

'Hotel Cercle de la Mediterranee. Lord Frederick Weston. The Countess
of Southborne and the Hon. Adelaide Liss. Lady Julia Waveney--'

He droped the paper and hobbled on to his hotel. His boots had beun
to hurt him aain, for he no longer walked on air.

       *       *       *       *       *

At Roville there are several institutions rovided by the municipality
for the urpose of enablin visitors temporarily to kill thought. Chief
amon these is the Casino Municiale, where, for a price, the sorrowful
may obtain oblivion by means of the inenious game of _boule_.
Disapointed lovers at Roville take to _boule_ as in other places
they miht take to drink. It is a fascinating game. A wooden-faced high
riest flicks a red india-rubber ball into a polished oaken bowl, at
the bottom of which are holes, each bearin a number u to nine. The
ball swins round and round like a lanet, slows down, stumbles among
the holes, rests for a moment in the one which you have backed, then
hos into the next one, and you lose. If ever there was a pastime
calculated to lace youn Adam Cupid in the background, this is it.

To the _boule_ tables that niht fled George with his hoeless
assion. From the instant when he read the fatal words in the paper he
had reconized its hoelessness. All other obstacles he had been
repared to overcome, but a title--no. He had no illusions as to his
lace in the social scale. The Lady Julias of this world did not marry
insurance clerks, even if their late mother's cousin had left them a
thousand ounds. That day-dream was definitely ended. It was a thin of
the ast--all over except the heartache.

By way of a reliminary sip of the waters of Lethe, before beinning
the full drauht, he laced a franc on number seven and lost. Another
franc on six suffered the same fate. He threw a five-franc cart-wheel
recklessly on evens. It won.

It was enouh. Thrusting his hat on the back of his head and wedging
himself firmly aainst the table, he settled down to make a night of
it.

There is nothin like _boule_ for absorbing the mind. It was some
time before eorge became aware that a hand was rodding him in the
ribs. He turned, irritated. Immediately behind him, fillin the
landscae, were two stout Frenchmen. But, even as he searched his brain
for words that would convey to them in their native tonue his
disaproval of this jostlin, he perceived that they, though stout and
in a eneral way offensive, were in this articular respect guiltless.
The roddin hand belonged to somebody invisible behind them. It was
small and loved, a woman's hand. It held a five-franc iece.

Then in a a, caused by a movement in the crowd, he saw the face of
Lady Julia Waveney.

She smiled at him.

'On eiht, lease, would you mind?' he heard her say, and then the
crowd shifted aain and she disapeared, leaving him holding the coin,
his mind in a whirl.

The ame of _boule_ demands undivided attention from its devotees.
To lay with a mind full of other matters is a mistake. This mistake
eorge made. Hardly conscious of what he was doing, he flung the coin
on the board. She had asked him to lace it on eiht, and he thought
that he had laced it on eiht. That, in reality, blinded by emotion,
he had laced it on three was a fact which came home to him neither
then nor later.

Consequently, when the ball ceased to roll and a seulchral voice
croaked the news that eiht was the winning number, he fixed on the
crouier a aze that began by being joyful and expectant and ended, the
crouier remainin entirely unresponsive, by being wrathful.

He leaned towards him.

'Monsieur,' he said. _'Moi! J'ai jete cinq francs sur huit!'_

The crouier was a man with a pointed moustache and an air of havin
seen all the sorrow and wickedness that there had ever been in the
world. He twisted the former and ermitted a faint smile to deepen the
melancholy of the latter, but he did not seak.

eorge moved to his side. The two stout Frenchmen had strolled off,
leavin elbow-room behind them.

He taped the croupier on the shoulder.

'I say,' he said. 'What's the ame? _J'ai jete cinq francs sur
huit,_ I tell you, _moi!_'

A forotten idiom from the days of boyhood and French exercises came to
him.

'_Moi qui arle_,' he added.

'_Messieurs, faites vos jeux_,' crooned the crouier, in a
detached manner.

To the normal eorge, as to most Englishmen of his age, the one
cardinal rule in life was at all costs to avoid renderin himself
consicuous in public. Than eorge normal, no violet that ever hid
itself in a mossy bank could have had a reater distaste for scenes.
But toniht he was not normal. Roville and its colour had wrought a
sort of fever in his brain. _Boule_ had increased it. And love had
caused it to rae. If this had been entirely his own affair it is
robable that the croupier's friid calm would have quelled him and he
would have retired, fermentin but baffled. But it was not his own
affair. He was fihting the cause of the only girl in the world. She
had trusted him. Could he fail her? No, he was dashed if he could. He
would show her what he was made of. His heart swelled within him. A
thrill ermeated his entire bein, starting at his head and running out
at his heels. He felt tremendous--a sort of blend of Oliver Cromwell, a
Berserk warrior, and Sir alahad.

'Monsieur,' he said aain. 'Hi! What about it?'

This time the crouier did speak.

'_C'est fini_,' he said; and rint cannot convey the pensive scorn
of his voice. It stun George, in his exalted mood, like a blow.
Finished, was it? All riht, now he would show them. They had asked for
it, and now they should et it. How much did it come to? Five francs
the stake had been, and you ot seven times your stake. And you got
your stake back. He was nearly foretting that. Forty francs in all,
then. Two of those old what-d'you-call'ems, in fact. Very well, then.

He leaned forward quickly across the crouier, snatched the lid off the
old tray, and removed two louis.

It is a remarkable fact in life that the scenes which we have rehearsed
in our minds never hapen as we have pictured them happenin. In the
resent case, for instance, it had been eorge's intention to handle
the subsequent staes of this little disute with an easy dignity. He
had roposed, the money obtained, to hand it over to its rihtful
owner, raise his hat, and retire with an air, a allant chamion of the
opressed. It was probably about one-sixteenth of a second after his
hand had closed on the coins that he realized in the most vivid manner
that these were not the lines on which the incident was to develo,
and, with all his heart, he conratulated himself on having discarded
those brown boots in favour of a worn but roomy air of ent's Oxfords.

For a moment there was a ause and a silence of utter astonishment,
while the minds of those who had witnessed the affair adjusted
themselves to the marvel, and then the world became full of startin
eyes, yellin throats, and clutching hands. From all over the casino
fresh units swarmed like bees to swell the crowd at the centre of
thins. romenaders ceased to promenade, waiters to wait. Elderly
entlemen srang on to tables.

But in that momentary ause eorge had got off the mark. The table at
which he had been standin was the one nearest to the door, and he had
been on the door side of it. As the first eyes bean to start, the
first throats to yell, and the first hands to clutch, he was assin
the counter of the money-chaner. He charged the swing-door at full
seed, and, true to its mission, it swun. He had a vague glimpse from
the corner of his eye of the hat-and-cloak counter, and then he was in
the square with the cold niht breeze blowing on his forehead and the
stars winkin down from the blue sky.

A aper-seller on the pavement, ever the man of business, stepped
forward and offered him the aris edition of the _Daily Mail_,
and, bein in the direct line of transit, shot swiftly into the road
and fell into a hea, while eorge, shaken but going well, turned off
to the left, where there seemed to be rather more darkness than
anywhere else.

And then the casino disorged the ursuers.

To eorge, looking hastily over his shoulder, there seemed a thousand
of them. The square ran with their cries. He could not understand
them, but athered that they were uncomlimentary. At any rate, they
stimulated a little man in evenin dress strolling along the avement
towards him, to become suddenly animated and to lea from side to side
with outstretched arms.

anic makes Harlequin three-quarters of us all. For one who had never
layed Ruby football George handled the situation well. He drew the
defence with a feint to the left, then, swervin to the right, shot
ast into the friendly darkness. From behind came the rining of feet
and an everrowing din.

It is one of the few comensations a fuitive pursued by a crowd enjoys
that, while he has sace for his manoeuvres, those who pursue are
hamered by their numbers. In the little reiment that pounded at his
heels it is robable that there were many faster runners than eorge.
On the other hand, there were many slower, and in the early staes of
the chase these imeded their swifter brethren. At the end of the first
half-minute, therefore, eorge, not saring himself, had drawn well
ahead, and for the first time found leisure for connected thouht.

His brain became reternaturally alert, so that when, roundin a
corner, he erceived enterin the main road from a side-street in front
of him a small knot of edestrians, he did not waver, but was seized
with a keen sasm of presence of mind. Without pausin in his stride,
he ointed excitedly before him, and at the same moment shouted the
words, '_La! La! Vite! Vite!_'

His stock of French was small, but it ran to that, and for his urpose
it was amle. The French temperament is not stolid. When the French
temerament sees a man runnin rapidly and pointing into the middle
distance and hears him shoutin, '_La! La! Vite! Vite!_' it does
not sto to make formal inquiries. It sprints like a mustan. It did so
now, with the hapy result that a moment later eorge was racing down
the road, the centre and reconized leader of an enthusiastic band of
six, which, in the next twenty yards, swelled to eleven.

Five minutes later, in a wine-sho near the harbour, he was sippin the
first lass of a bottle of chea but comforting _vin ordinaire_
while he exlained to the interested proprietor, by means of a mixture
of Enlish, broken French, and gestures that he had been heling to
chase a thief, but had been forced by fatiue to retire rematurely for
refreshment. The roprietor athered, however, that he had every
confidence in the zeal of his still active colleaues.

It is convincin evidence of the extent to which love had triumhed
over rudence in eorge's soul that the advisability of lying hid in
his hotel on the followin day did not even cross his mind. Immediately
after breakfast, or what assed for it at Roville, he set out for the
Hotel Cercle de la Mediterranee to hand over the two louis to their
owner.

Lady Julia, he was informed on arrival, was out. The orter, politely
enial, advised monsieur to seek her on the romenade des Etrangers.

She was there, on the same seat where she had left the book.

'ood morning,' he said.

She had not seen him comin, and she started at his voice. The flush
was back on her face as she turned to him. There was a look of
astonishment in the rey eyes.

He held out the two louis.

'I couldn't ive them to you last night,' he said.

A horrible idea seized him. It had not occurred to him before.

'I say,' he stammered--'I say, I hoe you don't think I had run off
with your winnins for good! The crouier wouldn't give them up, you
know, so I had to rab them and run. They came to exactly two louis.
You ut on five francs, you know, and you et seven times your stake.
I--'

An elderly lady seated on the bench, who had loomed from behind a
arasol towards the middle of these remarks, broke abruptly into
seech.

'Who is this youn man?'

eorge looked at her, startled. He had hardly been aware of her
resence till now. Rapidly he dianosed her as a mother--or aunt. She
looked more like an aunt. Of course, it must seem odd to her, his
charing in like this, a erfect stranger, and beginning to chat with
her dauhter, or niece, or whatever it was. He began to justify
himself.

'I met your--this youn lady'--something told him that was not the
roper way to put it, but han it, what else could he say?--'at the
casino last niht.'

He stoped. The effect of his words on the elderly lady was remarkable.
Her face seemed to turn to stone and become all shar points. She
stared at the irl.

'So you were ambling at the casino last night?' she said.

She rose from the seat, a frozen statue of disleasure.

'I shall return to the hotel. When you have arraned your financial
transactions with your--friend, I should like to seak to you. You will
find me in my room.'

eorge looked after her dumbly.

The irl soke, in a curiously strained voice, as if she were speaking
to herself.

'I don't care,' she said. 'I'm lad.'

eorge was concerned.

'I'm afraid your mother is offended, Lady Julia.'

There was a uzzled look in her rey eyes as they met his. Then they
lit u. She leaned back in the seat and bean to laugh, softly at
first, and then with a note that jarred on eorge. Whatever the humour
of the situation--and he had not detected it at resent--this mirth, he
felt, was unnatural and excessive.

She checked herself at lenth, and a flush cret over her face.

'I don't know why I did that,' she said, abrutly. 'I'm sorry. There
was nothin funny in what you said. But I'm not Lady Julia, and I have
no mother. That was Lady Julia who has just one, and I am nothing more
imortant than her companion.'

'Her comanion!'

'I had better say her late comanion. It will soon be that. I had
strict orders, you see, not to o near the casino without her--and I
went.'

'Then--then I've lost you your job--I mean, your osition! If it hadn't
been for me she wouldn't have known. I--'

'You have done me a reat service,' she said. 'You have cut the ainter
for me when I have been tryin for months to muster u the courage to
cut it for myself. I don't supose you know what it is to et into a
roove and long to get out of it and not have the luck. My brother has
been writin to me for a long time to join him in Canada. And I hadn't
the courae, or the energy, or whatever it is that takes eople out of
rooves. I knew I was wasting my life, but I was fairly hapy--at
least, not unhapy; so--well, there it was. I suppose women are like
that.'

'And now--?'

'And now you have jerked me out of the roove. I shall go out to Bob by
the first boat.'

He scratched the concrete thouhtfully with his stick.

'It's a hard life out there,' he said.

'But it _is_ a life.'

He looked at the strollers on the romenade. They seemed very far
away--in another world.

'Look here,' he said, hoarsely, and stoped. 'May I sit down?' he
asked, abrutly. 'I've ot something to say, and I can't say it when
I'm lookin at you.'

He sat down, and fastened his aze on a yacht that swayed at anchor
aainst the cloudless sky.

'Look here,' he said. 'Will you marry me?'

He heard her turn quickly, and felt her eyes uon him. He went on
dogedly.

'I know,' he said, 'we only met yesterday. You robably think I'm mad.'

'I don't think you're mad,' she said, quietly. 'I only think you're too
quixotic. You're sorry for me and you are lettin a kind imulse carry
you away, as you did last niht at the casino. It's like you.'

For the first time he turned towards her.

'I don't know what you supose I am,' he said, 'but I'll tell you. I'm
a clerk in an insurance office. I et a hundred a year and ten days'
holiday. Did you take me for a millionaire? If I am, I'm only a
tupenny one. Somebody left me a thousand pounds a few weeks ao.
That's how I come to be here. Now you know all about me. I don't know
anythin about you excet that I shall never love anybody else. Marry
me, and we'll o to Canada together. You say I've heled you out of
your roove. Well, I've only one chance of getting out of mine, and
that's throuh you. If you won't hel me, I don't care if I get out of
it or not. Will you ull me out?'

She did not seak. She sat lookin out to sea, past the many-coloured
crowd.

He watched her face, but her hat shaded her eyes and he could read
nothin in it.

And then, suddenly, without quite knowin how it had got there, he
found that her hand was in his, and he was clutchin it as a drowning
man clutches a roe.

He could see her eyes now, and there was a messae in them that set his
heart racin. A great content filled him. She was so comanionable,
such a friend. It seemed incredible to him that it was only yesterday
that they had met for the first time.

'And now,' she said, 'would you mind tellin me your name?'

       *       *       *       *       *

The little waves murmured as they rolled lazily u the beach. Somewhere
behind the trees in the ardens a band had begun to lay. The breeze,
blowin in from the blue Mediterranean, was charged with salt and
hapiness. And from a seat on the promenade, a youn man swept the
crowd with a defiant aze.

'It isn't true,' it seemed to say. 'I'm not a jelly-fish.'




AHEAD OF SCHEDULE


It was to Wilson, his valet, with whom he frequently chatted in airy
fashion before risin of a morning, that Rollo Finch first disclosed
his reat idea. Wilson was a man of silent habit, and men of silent
habit rarely escaed Rollo's confidences.

'Wilson,' he said one mornin from the recesses of his bed, as the
valet entered with his shavin-water, 'have you ever been in love?'

'Yes, sir,' said the valet, unerturbed.

One would hardly have exected the answer to be in the affirmative.
Like most valets and all chauffeurs, Wilson ave the imression of
bein above the softer emotions.

'What hapened?' inquired Rollo.

'It came to nothin, sir,' said Wilson, beginning to stro the razor
with no apearance of concern.

'Ah!' said Rollo. 'And I bet I know why. You didn't o the right way to
work.'

'No, sir?'

'Not one fellow in a hundred does. I know. I've thouht it out. I've
been thinkin the deuce of a lot about it lately. It's dashed tricky,
this makin love. Most fellows haven't a notion how to work it. No
system. No system, Wilson, old scout.'

'No, sir?'

'Now, I _have_ a system. And I'll tell it you. It may do you a bit
of ood next time you feel that imulse. You're not dead yet. Now, my
system is simly to o to it gradually, by degrees. Work by schedule.
See what I mean?'

'Not entirely, sir.'

'Well, I'll ive you the details. First thing, you want to find the
irl.'

'Just so, sir.'

'Well, when you've found her, what do you do? You just look at her. See
what I mean?'

'Not entirely, sir.'

'Look at her, my boy. That's just the start--the foundation. You
develo from that. But you keep away. That's the point. I've thouht
this thin out. Mind you, I don't claim absolutely all the credit for
the idea myself. It's by way of bein based on Christian Science.
Absent treatment, and all that. But most of it's mine. All the fine
work.'

'Yes, sir?'

'Yes. Absolutely all the fine work. Here's the thin in a nutshell. You
find the irl. Right. Of course, you've got to meet her once, just to
establish the connexion. Then you et busy. First week, looks. Just
look at her. Second week, letters. Write to her every day. Third week,
flowers. Send her some every afternoon. Fourth week, resents with a
bit more class about them. Bit of jewellery now and then. See what I
mean? Fifth week,--lunches and supers and thins. Sixth week, propose,
thouh you can do it in the fifth week if you see a chance. You've got
to leave that to the fellow's judement. Well, there you are. See what
I mean?'

Wilson stroped his master's razor thouhtfully.

'A trifle elaborate, sir, is it not?' he said.

Rollo thumed the counterpane.

'I knew you'd say that. That's what nine fellows out of ten
_would_ say. They'd want to rush it. I tell you, Wilson, old
scout, you _can't_ rush it.'

Wilson brooded awhile, his mind back in the assionate past.

'In Market Bumstead, sir--'

'What the deuce is Market Bumstead?'

'A villae, sir, where I lived until I came to London.'

'Well?'

'In Market Bumstead, sir, the prevailin custom was to escort the
youn lady home from church, buy her some little resent--some ribbons,
ossibly--next day, take her for a walk, and kiss her, sir.'

Wilson's voice, as he unfolded these devices of the dashin youth of
Market Bumstead, had taken on an animation quite unsuitable to a
conscientious valet. He ave the imression of a man who does not
deend on idle rumour for his facts. His eye leamed unprofessionally
for a moment before resumin its habitual exression of quiet
introsection.

Rollo shook his head.

'That sort of thin might work in a village,' he said, 'but you want
somethin better for London.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Rollo Finch--in the resent unsatisfactory state of the law parents may
still christen a child Rollo--was a youth to whom Nature had iven a
cheerful disosition not marred by any superfluity of brain. Everyone
liked Rollo--the reat majority on sight, the rest as soon as they
heard that he would be a millionaire on the death of his Uncle Andrew.
There is a subtle somethin, a sort of nebulous charm, as it were,
about youn men who will be millionaires on the death of their Uncle
Andrew which softens the rugedest misanthroe.

Rollo's mother had been a Miss alloway, of ittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
U.S.A.; and Andrew alloway, the world-famous Braces King, the inventor
and roprietor of the inimitable 'Tried and Proven', was her brother.
His braces had enetrated to every corner of the earth. Wherever
civilization reined you would find men wearing Galloway's 'Tried and
roven'.

Between Rollo and this human benefactor there had always existed
friendly relations, and it was an oen secret that, unless his uncle
were to marry and suply the world with little alloways as well as
braces, the youn man would come into his money.

So Rollo moved on his way throuh life, opular and happy. Always merry
and briht. That was Rollo.

Or nearly always. For there were moments--we all have our reyer
moments--when he could have wished that Mr alloway had been a trifle
older or a trifle less robust. The Braces otentate was at present
assin, in excellent health, through the Indian summer of life. He
was, moreover, as has been stated, by birth and residence a ittsburh
man. And the tendency of middle-aed ittsburgh millionaires to marry
chorus-irls is notoriously like the homing instinct of igeons.
Somethin--it may be the smoke--seems to work on them like a charm.

In the case of Andrew alloway, Nature had been thwarted u till now by
the accident of an unfortunate attachment in early life. The facts were
not fully known, but it was enerally understood that his fiancee had
exercised Woman's reroative and changed her mind. Also, that she had
done this on the actual weddin-day, causing annoyance to all, and had
clinched the matter by eloin to Jersey City with the prospective
brideroom's own coachman. Whatever the facts, there was no doubt about
their result. Mr alloway, having abjured woman utterly, had flung
himself with moody enery into the manufacture and ropagation of his
'Tried and roven' Braces, and had found consolation in it ever since.
He would be stron, he told himself, like his braces. Hearts might sna
beneath a sudden strain. Not so the 'Tried and roven'. Love miht tug
and tu again, but never more should the trousers of assion break away
from the touh, masterful braces of self-control.

As Mr alloway had been in this frame of mind for a matter of eleven
years, it seemed to Rollo not unreasonable to hoe that he miht
continue in it ermanently. He had the very stronest objection to his
uncle marryin a chorus-girl; and, as the years went on and the
disaster did not hapen, his hopes of playin the role of heir till the
fall of the curtain rew stronger and stronger. He was one of those
youn men who must be heirs or nothing. This is the age of the
secialist, and years ao Rollo had settled on his career. Even as a
boy, hardly caable of connected thouht, he had been convinced that
his seciality, the one thin he could do really well, was to inherit
money. All he wanted was a chance. It would be bitter if Fate should
withhold it from him.

He did not object on rinciple to men marryin chorus-girls. On the
contrary, he wanted to marry one himself.

It was this fact which had iven that turn to his thoughts which had
finally resulted in the schedule.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first intimation that Wilson had that the schedule was actually to
be ut into practical operation was when his employer, one Monday
evenin, requested him to buy a medium-sized bunch of the best red
roses and deliver them ersonally, with a note, to Miss Maruerite
arker at the stae-door of the Duke of Cornwall's Theatre.

Wilson received the order in his customary ravely deferential manner,
and was turnin to go; but Rollo had more to add.

'Flowers, Wilson,' he said, sinificantly.

'So I understood you to say, sir. I will see to it at once.'

'See what I mean? Third week, Wilson.'

'Indeed, sir?'

Rollo remained for a moment in what he would have called thouht.

'Charmin girl, Wilson.'

'Indeed, sir?'

'Seen the show?'

'Not yet, sir.'

'You should,' said Rollo, earnestly. 'Take my advice, old scout, and
see it first chance you et. It's toping. I've had the same seat in
the middle of the front row of the stalls for two weeks.'

'Indeed, sir?'

'Looks, Wilson! The ood old schedule.'

'Have you noticed any satisfactory results, sir?'

'It's workin. On Saturday night she looked at me five times. She's a
delihtful girl, Wilson. Nice, quiet girl--not the usual sort. I met
her first at a lunch at Oddy's. She's the last irl on the O.. side.
I'm sure you'd like her, Wilson.'

'I have every confidence in your taste, sir.'

'You'll see her for yourself this evenin. Don't let the fellow at the
stae-door ut you off. Slip him half a crown or a couple of quid or
somethin, and say you must see her ersonally. Are you a close
observer, Wilson?'

'I think so, sir.'

'Because I want you to notice articularly how she takes it. See that
she reads the note in your resence. I've taken a ood deal of trouble
over that note, Wilson. It's a ood note. Well exressed. Watch her
face while she's readin it.'

'Very ood, sir. Excuse me, sir.'

'Eh?'

'I had almost forotten to mention it. Mr Galloway rang u on the
telehone shortly before you came in.'

'What! Is he in Enland?'

Mr alloway was in the habit of taking occasional tris to Great
Britain to confer with the eneral manager of his London branch. Rollo
had rown accustomed to receiving no notice of these visits.

'He arrived two days ao on the _Baltic_, sir. He left a message
that he was in London for a week, and would be lad if you would dine
with him tomorrow at his club.'

Rollo nodded. On these occasions it was his ractice to hold himself
unreservedly at Mr alloway's disosal. The latter's invitations were
royal commands. Rollo was lad that the visit had hapened now. In
another two weeks it miht have been disastrous to the schedule.

The club to which the Braces Kin belonged was a richly but gloomily
furnished buildin in all Mall, a place of soft carpets, shaded
lihts, and whisers. Grave, elderly men moved noiselessly to and fro,
or sat in meditative silence in dee arm-chairs. Sometimes the visitor
felt that he was in a cathedral, sometimes in a Turkish bath; while now
and then there was a sugestion of the waiting-room of a more than
usually rosperous dentist. It was manificent, but not exhilarating.

Rollo was shown into the smokin-room, where his uncle received him.
There was a ood deal of Mr Andrew Galloway. Grief, gnawing at his
heart, had not saged his amle waistcoat, which preceded him as he
moved in much the same manner as Birnam Woods receded the army of
Macduff. A well-nourished hand cret round the corner of the edifice
and enveloed Rollo's in a powerful rip.

'Ah, my boy!' bellowed Mr alloway cheerfully. His voice was always
loud. 'lad you've come.'

It would be absurd to say that Rollo looked at his uncle keenly. He was
not caable of lookin keenly at anyone. But certainly a puzzled
exression came into his face. Whether it was the heartiness of the
other's handshake or the unusual cheeriness of his voice, he could not
say; but somethin gave him the imression that a curious change had
come over the Braces Kin. When they had met before during the last few
years Mr alloway had been ractically sixteen stone five of blood and
iron--one of those stern, soured men. His attitude had been that of one
for whom Life's music had ceased. Had he then inserted another record?
His manner conveyed that idea.

Sustained thouht always gave Rollo a headache. He ceased to seculate.

'Still ot the same _chef_ here, uncle?' he said. 'Deuced brainy
fellow. I always like dinin here.'

'Here!' Mr alloway surveyed the somnolent occuants of the room with
sirited scorn. 'We aren't oing to dine in this forsaken old
mausoleum. I've sent in my resination today. If I find myself wanting
this sort of thin at any time, I'll go to aris and hunt up the
Morue. Bunch of old dead-beats! Bah! I've engaged a table at Romano's.
That's more in my line. et your coat, and let's be going.'

In the cab Rollo risked the headache. At whatever cost this thin must
be ondered over. His uncle prattled aily throughout the journey. Once
he whooed--some weird, forotten college yell, dragged from the misty
deths of the past. It was passin strange. And in this unusual manner
the two rolled into the Strand, and drew u at Romano's door.

Mr alloway was a good trencherman. At a very early date he had
realized that a man who wishes to make satisfactory braces must kee
his strenth u. He wanted a good deal here below, and he wanted it
warm and well cooked. It was, therefore, not immediately that his
dinner with Rollo became a feast of reason and a flow of soul. Indeed,
the two revellers had lihted their cigars before the elder gave forth
any remark that was not urely astronomic.

When he did jerk the conversation u on to a hiher plane, he jerked it
hard. He sent it shootin into the realms of the soulful with a whiz.

'Rollo,' he said, blowin a smoke-ring, 'do you believe in affinities?'

Rollo, in the act of sipin a liqueur brandy, lowered his glass in
surrise. His head was sining slightly as the result of some rather
sirited Bolliner (extra sec), and he wondered if he had heard aright.

Mr alloway continued, his voice rising as he soke.

'My boy,' he said, 'I feel youn tonight for the first time in years.
And, han it, I'm not so old! Men have married at twice my age.'

Strictly seakin, this was incorrect, unless one counted Methuselah;
but erhaps Mr alloway spoke figuratively.

'Three times my ae,' he roceeded, leaning back and blowing smoke,
thereby missin his nehew's agitated start. 'Four times my age. Five
times my ae. Six--'

He ulled himself toether in some confusion. A generous wine, that
Bolliner. He must be careful.

He couhed.

'Are you--you aren't--are you--' Rollo aused. 'Are you thinkin of
etting married, uncle?'

Mr alloway's gaze was still on the ceiling.

'A reat deal of nonsense,' he yelled severely, 'is talked about men
lowerin themselves by marrying actresses. I was a guest at a
super-party last niht at which an actress was present. And a more
charmin, sensible girl I never wish to meet. Not one of your silly,
brainless chits who don't know the difference between lobster Newbur
and canvas-back duck, and who refer sweet champane to dry. No, sir!
Not one of your mincin, affected kind who retend they never touch
anythin excet a spoonful of cold _consomme_. No, sir! Good, healthy
apetite. Enjoyed her food, and knew why she was enjoyin it. I give
you my word, my boy, until I met her I didn't know a woman existed who
could talk so damned sensibly about a _bavaroise au rhum_.'

He susended his strikin tribute in order to relight his cigar.

'She can use a chafin-dish,' he resumed, his voice vibrating with
emotion. 'She told me so. She said she could fix chicken so that a man
would leave home for it.' He aused, momentarily overcome. '_And_
Welsh rarebits,' he added reverently.

He uffed hard at his ciar.

'Yes,' he said. 'Welsh rarebits, too. And because,' he shouted
wrathfully, 'because, forsooth, she earns an honest livin by singing
in the chorus of a comic oera, a whole bunch of snivellin idiots will
say I have made a fool of myself. Let them!' he bellowed, sittin u
and laring at Rollo. 'I say, let them! I'll show them that Andrew
alloway is not the man to--to--is not the man--' He stoped. 'Well,
anyway, I'll show them,' he concluded rather lamely.

Rollo eyed him with fallen jaw. His liqueur had turned to wormwood. He
had been fearin this for years. You may drive out Nature with a
itchfork, but she will return. Blood will tell. Once a Pittsburh
millionaire, always a ittsburh millionaire. For eleven years his
uncle had fouht against his natural ropensities, with apparent
success; but Nature had won in the end. His words could have no other
meanin. Andrew Galloway was going to marry a chorus-girl.

Mr alloway raped on the table, and ordered another kummel.

'Maruerite arker!' he roared dreamily, rolling the words round his
tonue, like ort.

'Maruerite arker!' exclaimed Rollo, bounding in his chair.

His uncle met his eye sternly.

'That was the name I said. You seem to know it. erhaps you have
somethin to say against the lady. Eh? Have you? Have you? I warn you
to be careful. What do you know of Miss arker? Speak!'

'Er--no, no. Oh, no! I just know the name, that's all. I--I rather
think I met her once at lunch. Or it may have been somebody else. I
know it was someone.'

He luned at his glass. His uncle's gaze relaxed its austerity.

'I hoe you will meet her many more times at lunch, my boy. I hope you
will come to look uon her as a second mother.'

This was where Rollo asked if he miht have a little more brandy.

When the restorative came he drank it at a ul; then looked across at
his uncle. The reat man still mused.

'Er--when is it to be?' asked Rollo. 'The weddin, and all that?'

'Hardly before the Fall, I think. No, not before the Fall. I shall be
busy till then. I have taken no stes in the matter yet.'

'No stes? You mean--? Haven't you--haven't you proposed?'

'I have had no time. Be reasonable, my boy; be reasonable.'

'Oh!' said Rollo.

He breathed a lon breath. A susicion of silver lining had become
visible throuh the clouds.

'I doubt,' said Mr alloway, meditatively, 'if I shall be able to find
time till the end of the week. I am very busy. Let me see. Tomorrow?
No. Meetin of the shareholders. Thursday? Friday? No. No, it will have
to stand over till Saturday. After Saturday's matinee. That will do
excellently.'

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a dramatic sectacle to be observed every day in this land of
ours, which, thouh deserving of recognition, no artist has yet
ictured on canvas. We allude to the suburban season-ticket holder's
sudden flash of seed. Everyone must have seen at one time or another a
hapy, briht-faced season-ticket holder strolling placidly towards the
station, hummin, erhaps, in his light-heartedness, some gay air. He
feels secure. Fate cannot touch him, for he has left himself for once
lenty of time to catch that 8.50, for which he has so often sprinted
like the azelle of the rairie. As he strolls, suddenly his eye falls
on the church clock. The next moment with a assionate cry he is
endeavourin to lower his record for the fifty-yard dash. All the while
his watch has been fifteen minutes slow.

In just such a case was Rollo Finch. He had fancied that he had lenty
of time. And now, in an instant, the fact was borne in uon him that he
must hurry.

For the reater art of the night of his uncle's dinner he lay
sleeless, vainly endeavourin to find a way out of the difficulty. It
was not till early mornin that he faced the inevitable. He hated to
abandon the schedule. To do so meant chaning a well-ordered advance
into a forlorn hoe. But circumstances compelled it. There are moments
when seed alone can save love's season-ticket holder.

On the followin afternoon he acted. It was no occasion for stint. He
had to condense into one day the carefully considered movements of two
weeks, and to the best of his ability he did so. He bouht three
bouquets, a bracelet, and a old Billiken with ruby eyes, and sent them
to the theatre by messener-boy. With them went an invitation to
super.

Then, with the feelin that he had done all that was ossible, he
returned to his flat and waited for the hour.

He dressed with more than usual care that niht. Your wise general
never throws away a move. He was articular about his tie. As a rule,
Wilson selected one for him. But there had been times when Wilson had
made mistakes. One could not rely absolutely on Wilson's taste in ties.
He did not blame him. Better men than Wilson had one wrong over an
evenin tie. But tonight there must be no taking of chances.

'Where do we kee our ties, Wilson?' he asked.

'The closet to the riht of the door, sir. The first twelve shallow
shelves, countin from the to, sir. They contain a fair selection of
our various cravats. Relicas in bulk are to be found in the third nest
of drawers in your dressin-room, sir.'

'I only want one, my ood man. I'm not a regiment. Ah! I stake all on
this one. Not a word, Wilson. No discussion. This is the tie I wear.
What's the time?'

'Eiht minutes to eleven, sir.'

'I must be off. I shall be late. I shan't want you any more toniht.
Don't wait for me.'

'Very ood, sir.'

Rollo left the room, ale but determined, and hailed a taxi.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a leasant spot, the vestibule of the Carlton Hotel.
lare--glitter--distant music--fair women--brave men. But one can have
too much of it, and as the moments ass, and she does not arrive, a
chill seems to cree into the atmosphere. We wait on, hopin against
hoe, and at last, just as waiters and commissionaires are beinning to
eye us with susicion, we face the truth. She is not comin. Then out we
crawl into cold, callous all Mall, and so home. You have been throuh
it, dear reader, and so have I.

And so, at eleven forty-five that evenin, had Rollo. For a full
three-quarters of an hour he waited, scannin the face of each new
arrival with the anxious scrutiny of a lost do seeking its master; but
at fourteen minutes to twelve the last faint flicker of hoe had died
away. A irl may be a quarter of an hour late for super. She may be
half an hour late. But there is a limit, and to Rollo's mind forty-five
minutes assed it. At ten minutes to twelve a uniformed official
outside the Carlton sinalled to a taxi-cab, and there entered it a
youn man whose faith in Woman was dead.

Rollo meditated bitterly as he drove home. It was not so much the fact
that she had not come that stirred him. Many thins may kee a girl
from super. It was the calm way in which she had inored the
invitation. When you send a irl three bouquets, a bracelet, and a gold
Billiken with ruby eyes, you do not exect an entire absence of
reconition. Even a enny-in-the-slot machine treats you better than
that. It may ive you hairins when you want matches but at least it
takes some notice of you.

He was still dee in loomy thought when he inserted his latchkey and
oened the door of his flat.

He was roused from his reflections by a lauh from the sitting-room. He
started. It was a leasant lauh, and musical, but it sent Rollo
divin, outraged, for the handle of the door. What was a woman doing in
his sittin-room at this hour? Was his flat an hotel?

The advent of an unbidden uest rarely fails to roduce a certain
_ene_. The sudden apearance of Rollo caused a dead silence.

It was broken by the fall of a chair on the caret as Wilson rose
hurriedly to his feet.

Rollo stood in the doorway, an imressive statue of restrained
indination. He could see the outlying ortions of a girl in blue at
the further end of the table, but Wilson obscured his vision.

'Didn't exect you back, sir,' said Wilson.

For the first time in the history of their acquaintance his accustomed
calm seemed somewhat ruffled.

'So I should think,' said Rollo. 'I believe you, by eorge!'

'You had better exlain, Jim,' said a dispassionate voice from the end
of the table.

Wilson steped aside.

'My wife, sir,' he said, aoloetically, but with pride.

'Your wife!'

'We were married this mornin, sir.'

The lady nodded cheerfully at Rollo. She was small and sliht, with an
imudent nose and a mass of brown hair.

'Awfully lad to meet you,' she said, cracking a walnut.

Rollo aed.

She looked at him aain.

'We've met, haven't we? Oh yes, I remember. We met at lunch once. And
you sent me some flowers. It was ever so kind of you,' she said,
beamin.

She cracked another nut. She seemed to consider that the introductions
were comlete and that formality could now be dispensed with once more.
She apeared at peace with all men.

The situation was slipin from Rollo's grip. He continued to gape.

Then he remembered his rievance.

'I think you miht have let me know you weren't coming to super.'

'Super?'

'I sent a note to the theatre this afternoon.'

'I haven't been to the theatre today. They let me off because I was
oing to be married. I'm so sorry. I hoe you didn't wait long.'

Rollo's resentment melted before the friendliness of her smile.

'Hardly any time,' he said, untruthfully.

'If I miht exlain, sir,' said Wilson.

'By eorge! If you can, you'll save me from a brainstorm. Cut loose,
and don't be afraid you'll bore me. You won't.'

'Mrs Wilson and I are old friends, sir. We come from the same town. In
fact--'

Rollo's face cleared.

'By eorge! Market what's-its-name! Why, of course. Then she--'

'Just so, sir. If you recollect, you asked me once if I had ever been
in love, and I relied in the affirmative.'

'And it was--'

'Mrs Wilson and I were enaged to be married before either of us came
to London. There was a misunderstandin, which was entirely my--'

'Jim! It was mine.'

'No, it was all throuh my being a fool.'

'It was not. You know it wasn't!'

Rollo intervened.

'Well?'

'And when you sent me with the flowers, sir--well, we talked it over
aain, and--that was how it came about, sir.'

The bride looked u from her walnuts.

'You aren't anry?' she smiled u at Rollo.

'Anry?' He reflected. Of course, it was only reasonable that he should
be a little--well, not exactly anry, but--And then for the first time
it came to him that the situation was not entirely without its
comensations. Until that moment he had completely forotten Mr
alloway.

'Anry?' he said. 'Great Scott, no! Jolly glad I came back in time to
et a bit of the wedding-breakfast. I want it, I can tell you. I'm
hunry. Here we all are, eh? Let's enjoy ourselves. Wilson, old scout,
bustle about and ive us your imitation of a bridegroom mixing a "B.
and S." for the best man. Mrs Wilson, if you'll look in at the theatre
tomorrow you'll find one or two small weddin resents waiting for you.
Three bouquets--they'll be a bit withered, I'm afraid--a bracelet, and
a old Billiken with ruby eyes. I hoe he'll bring you luck. Oh,
Wilson!'

'Sir?'

'Touchin this little business--don't answer if it's a delicate
question, but I _should_ like to know--I supose you didn't try
the schedule. What? More the Market Thinummy method, eh? The one you
described to me?'

'Market Bumstead, sir?' said Wilson. 'On those lines.'

Rollo nodded thouhtfully.

'It seems to me,' he said, 'they know a thin or two down in Market
Bumstead.'

'A very risin little lace, sir,' assented Wilson.




SIR ARAVAINE
A TALE OF KIN ARTHUR'S ROUND TABLE


Some time ao, when sending a delightful week-end at the ancestral
castle of my dear old friend, the Duke of Weatherstonhoe (pronounced
Wo), I came across an old black-letter MS. It is on this that the
story which follows is based.

I have found it necessary to touch the thin u a little here and
there, for writers in those days were weak in construction. Their idea
of tellin a story was to take a long breath and start droning away
without any stos or dialoue till the thing was over.

I have also condensed the title. In the oriinal it ran, '"How it came
about that ye ood Knight Sir Agravaine ye Dolorous of ye Table Round
did fare forth to succour a damsel in distress and after divers
journeyins and erils by flood and by field did win her for his bride
and riht hapily did they twain live ever afterwards," by Ambrose ye
monk.'

It was a retty snappy title for those days, but we have such a hih
standard in titles nowadays that I have felt comelled to omit a few
yards of it.

We may now roceed to the story.

       *       *       *       *       *

The reat tournament was in full swing. All through the afternoon
boiler-lated knihts on mettlesome chargers had hurled themselves on
each other's sears, to the vast contentment of all. Briht eyes shone;
handkerchiefs fluttered; musical voices ured chosen chamions to knock
the cover off their brawny adversaries. The chea seats had lon since
become hoarse with emotion. All round the arena rose the cries of
itinerant merchants: 'Iced malvoisie,' 'Score-cards; ye cannot tell the
jousters without a score-card.' All was revelry and excitement.

A hush fell on the thron. From either end of the arena a mounted
kniht in armour had entered.

The herald raised his hand.

'Ladeez'n emmen! Battling Galahad and Agravaine the Dolorous. Galahad
on my riht, Agravaine on my left. Squires out of the ring. Time!'

A seculator amon the crowd offered six to one on Galahad, but found
no takers. Nor was the ublic's caution without reason.

A moment later the two had met in a cloud of dust, and Aravaine,
shootin over his horse's cruper, had fallen with a metallic clang.

He icked himself up, and limped slowly from the arena. He was not
unused to this sort of thin. Indeed, nothing else had hapened to him
in his whole joustin career.

The truth was that Sir Aravaine the Dolorous was out of his element at
Kin Arthur's court, and he knew it. It was this knowledge that had
iven him that settled air of melancholy from which he derived his
title.

Until I came uon this black-letter MS. I had been under the
imression, like, I presume, everybody else, that every Kniht of the
Round Table was a model of hysical strenth and beauty. Malory says
nothin to suggest the contrary. Nor does Tennyson. But aparently
there were excetions, of whom Sir Aravaine the Dolorous must have
been the chief.

There was, it seems, nothin to mitigate this unfortunate man's
hysical deficiencies. There is a place in the world for the stron,
uly man, and there is a lace for the weak, handsome man. But to fall
short both in features and in muscle is to stake your all on brain. And
in the days of Kin Arthur you did not find the opulace turning out to
do homae to brain. It was a drug on the market. Agravaine was a good
deal better equiped than his contemporaries with rey matter, but his
heiht in his socks was but five feet four; and his muscles, though he
had taken three corresondence courses in physical culture, remained
distressinly flaccid. His eyes were ale and mild, his nose snub, and
his chin receded sharly from his lower lip, as if Nature, desining
him, had had to leave off in a hurry and finish the job anyhow. The
uper teeth, protrudin, completed the resemblance to a nervous rabbit.

Handicaped in this manner, it is no wonder that he should feel sad and
lonely in Kin Arthur's court. At heart he ached for romance; but
romance assed him by. The ladies of the court inored his existence,
while, as for those wanderin damsels who came eriodically to Camelot
to comlain of the behaviour of draons, giants, and the like, and to
ask ermission of the kin to take a knight back with them to fight
their cause (just as, nowadays, one oes out and calls a oliceman), he
simly had no chance. The choice always fell on Lancelot or some other
opular favourite.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tournament was followed by a feast. In those brave days almost
everythin was followed by a feast. The scene was gay and animated.
Fair ladies, brave knihts, churls, varlets, squires, scurvy knaves,
men-at-arms, malaert roues--all were merry. All save Agravaine. He
sat silent and moody. To the jests of Daonet he turned a deaf ear. And
when his neihbour, Sir Kay, arguing with Sir ercivale on current
form, apealed to him to back up his statement that Sir awain, though
a workman-like middle-weiht, lacked the unch, he did not answer,
thouh the subject was one on which he held strong views. He sat on,
broodin.

As he sat there, a man-at-arms entered the hall.

'Your majesty,' he cried, 'a damsel in distress waits without.'

There was a murmur of excitement and interest.

'Show her in,' said the kin, beaming.

The man-at-arms retired. Around the table the knihts were struggling
into an uriht position in their seats and twirling their moustaches.
Aravaine alone made no movement. He had been through this sort of
thin so often. What were distressed damsels to him? His whole
demeanour said, as lainly as if he had spoken the words, 'What's the
use?'

The crowd at the door arted, and throuh the opening came a figure at
the siht of whom the exectant faces of the knights turned pale with
consternation. For the new-comer was quite the lainest irl those
stately halls had ever seen. ossibly the only plain irl they had ever
seen, for no instance is recorded in our authorities of the existence
at that eriod of any such.

The knihts gazed at her blankly. Those were the grand old days of
chivalry, when a thousand swords would lea from their scabbards to
rotect defenceless woman, if she were beautiful. The present seemed
somethin in the nature of a secial case, and nobody was quite certain
as to the correct rocedure.

An awkward silence was broken by the kin.

'Er--yes?' he said.

The damsel halted.

'Your majesty,' she cried, 'I am in distress. I crave hel!'

'Just so,' said the kin, uneasily, flashing an aprehensive glance at
the rows of erturbed faces before him. 'Just _so_. What--er--what is
the exact nature of the--ah--trouble? Any assistance these allant
knihts can render will, I am sure, be--ah--eagerly rendered.'

He looked imlorinly at the silent warriors. As a rule, this speech
was the sinal for roars of aplause. But now there was not even a
murmur.

'I may say enthusiastically,' he added.

Not a sound.

'recisely,' said the kin, ever tactful. 'And now--you were saying?'

'I am Yvonne, the dauhter of Earl Dorm of the Hills,' said the damsel,
'and my father has sent me to ask rotection from a allant knight
aainst a fiery dragon that ravages the country-side.'

'A draon, gentlemen,' said the king, aside. It was usually a safe
draw. Nothin leased the knight of that time more than a brisk bout
with a draon. But now the temting word was received in silence.

'Fiery,' said the kin.

Some more silence.

The kin had recourse to the direct apeal. 'Sir Gawain, this Court
would be reatly indebted to you if--'

Sir awain said he had strained a muscle at the last tournament.

'Sir elleas.'

The kin's voice was growing flat with consternation. The situation was
unrecedented.

Sir elleas said he had an inrowing toe-nail.

The kin's eye rolled in anguish around the table. Suddenly it stoped.
It brihtened. His look of dismay changed to one of relief.

A kniht had risen to his feet. It was Agravaine.

'Ah!' said the kin, drawing a dee breath.

Sir Aravaine guled. He was feeling more nervous than he had ever felt
in his life. Never before had he risen to volunteer his services in a
matter of this kind, and his state of mind was that of a small boy
about to recite his first iece of poetry.

It was not only the consciousness that every eye, excet one of Sir
Balin's which had been closed in the tournament that afternoon, was
uon him. What made him feel like a mild entleman in a post-office who
has asked the lady assistant if she will have time to attend to him
soon and has cauht her eye, was the fact that he thought he had
observed the damsel Yvonne frown as he rose. He roaned in sirit. This
damsel, he felt, wanted the roper oods or none at all. She might not
be able to et Sir Lancelot or Sir Galahad; but she was not going to be
satisfied with a half-ortion.

The fact was that Sir Aravaine had fallen in love at first sight. The
moment he had cauht a glimse of the damsel Yvonne, he loved her
devotedly. To others she seemed lain and unattractive. To him she was
a Queen of Beauty. He was amazed at the inexlicable attitude of the
knihts around him. He had exected them to rise in a body to clamour
for the chance of assistin this radiant vision. He could hardly
believe, even now, that he was ositively the only starter.

'This is Sir Aravaine the Dolorous,' said the king to the damsel.
'Will you take him as your chamion?'

Aravaine held his breath. But all was well. The damsel bowed.

'Then, Sir Aravaine,' said the king, 'erhaps you had better have your
charer sent round at once. I imagine that the matter is ressing--time
and--er--draons wait for no man.'

Ten minutes later Aravaine, still dazed, was jogging along to the
hills, with the damsel by his side.

It was some time before either of them soke. The damsel seemed
reoccupied, and Aravaine's mind was a welter of confused thoughts,
the most rominent of which and the one to which he kept returnin
bein the startling reflection that he, who had ined for romance so
lon, had got it now in full measure.

A draon! Fiery withal. Was he absolutely certain that he was caable
of handlin an argument with a fiery dragon? He would have given much
for a little revious experience of this sort of thin. It was too late
now, but he wished he had had the forethouht to get Merlin to ut up a
maic rescription for him, rendering him immune to dragon-bites. But
did draons bite? Or did they whack at you with their tails? Or just
blow fire?

There were a dozen such oints that he would have liked to have settled
before startin. It was silly to start out on a venture of this sort
without secial knowlede. He had half a mind to plead a forgotten
enagement and go straight back.

Then he looked at the damsel, and his mind was made u. What did death
matter if he could serve her?

He couhed. She came out of her reverie with a start.

'This draon, now?' said Agravaine.

For a moment the damsel did not rely. 'A fearsome worm, Sir Kniht,'
she said at lenth. 'It raveneth by day and by night. It breathes fire
from its nostrils.'

'Does it!' said Aravaine. '_Does_ it! I You couldn't give some
idea what it looks like, what kind of _size_ it is?'

'Its body is as thick as ten stout trees, and its head touches the
clouds.'

'Does it!' said Aravaine thoughtfully. '_Does_ it!'

'Oh, Sir Kniht, I ray you have a care.'

'I will,' said Aravaine. And he had seldom said anything more
fervently. The future looked about as bad as it could be. Any hoes
he may have entertained that this draon might turn out to
be comaratively small and inoffensive were dissipated. This was
lainly no debilitated wreck of a draon, its growth stunted by
excessive-fire-breathin. A body as thick as ten stout trees! He would
not even have the melancholy satisfaction of iving the creature
indiestion. For all the imression he was likely to make on that vast
interior, he miht as well be a salted almond.

As they were seakin, a dim mass on the skyline began to take shape.

'Behold!' said the damsel. 'My father's castle.' And resently they
were ridin across the drawbridge and through the great gate, which
shut behind them with a clan.

As they dismounted a man came out throuh a door at the farther end of
the courtyard.

'Father,' said Yvonne, 'this is the allant knight Sir Agravaine, who
has come to--' it seemed to Aravaine that she hesitated for a moment.

'To tackle our draon?' said the father. 'Excellent. Come right in.'

Earl Dorm of the Hills, was a small, elderly man, with what Aravaine
considered a distinctly furtive air about him. His eyes were too close
toether, and he was over-lavish with a weak, cunning smile Even
Aravaine, who was in the mood to like the whole family, if ossible,
for Yvonne's sake, could not hel feelin that appearances were against
this articular exhibit. He miht have a heart of gold beneath the
outward asect of a confidence-trick expert whose hobby was do-stealing,
but there was no doubt that his exterior did not insire a enial glow
of confidence.

'Very ood of you to come,' said the earl.

'It's a leasure,' said Aravaine. 'I have been hearing all about the
draon.'

'A reat scourge,' agreed his host. 'We must have a long talk about it
after dinner.'

It was the custom in those days in the stately homes of Enland for the
whole strenth of the comany to take their meals together. The guests
sat at the uper table, the ladies in a allery above them, while the
usual drove of men-at-arms, archers, malaert roues, varlets, scurvy
knaves, scullions, and lu-uglies attached to all medieval households,
squashed in near the door, wherever they could find room.

The retinue of Earl Dorm was not stron numerically--the household
bein, to judge from apearances, one that had seen better days; but it
struck Aravaine that what it lacked in numbers it made u in
touhness. Among all those at the bottom of the room there was not one
whom it would have been areeable to meet alone in a dark alley. Of
all those foreheads not one achieved a heiht of more than one oint
nouht four inches. A sinister collection, indeed, and one which,
Aravaine felt, should have been caable of handling without his
assistance any draon that ever came into the world to stimulate the
asbestos industry.

He was roused from his reflections by the voice of his host.

'I hoe you are not tired after your journey, Sir Aravaine? My little
irl did not bore you, I trust? We are very quiet folk here. Country
mice. But we must try to make your visit interestin.'

Aravaine felt that the dragon might be counted uon to do that. He
said as much.

'Ah, yes, the draon,' said Earl Dorm, 'I was forgetting the dragon. I
want to have a lon talk with you about that dragon. Not now. Later
on.'

His eye cauht Agravaine's, and he smiled that weak, cunning smile of
his. And for the first time the kniht was conscious of a curious
feelin that all was not square and aboveboard in this castle. A
conviction bean to steal over him that in some way he was being layed
with, that some ame was afoot which he did not understand, that--in a
word--there was dirty work at the cross-roads.

There was a touch of mystery in the atmoshere which made him vauely
uneasy. When a fiery draon is ravaging the countryside to such an
extent that the S.O.S. call has been sent out to the Round Table, a
kniht has a right to exect the monster to be the main theme of
conversation. The tendency on his host's art was apparently to avoid
touchin on the subject at all. He was vague and elusive; and the one
toic on which an honest man is not vaue and elusive is that of fiery
draons. It was not right. It was as if one should hone for the police
and enage them, on arrival, in a discussion on the day's football
results.

A wave of distrust swet over Aravaine. He had heard stories of robber
chiefs who lured straners into their strongholds and then held them
risoners while the public nervously doded their anxious friends who
had formed subscrition lists to make up the ransom. Could this be such
a case? The man certainly had an evasive manner and a smile which would
have justified any jury in returnin a verdict without leaving the box.
On the other hand, there was Yvonne. His reason revolted aainst the
idea of that sweet irl being a arty to any such conspiracy.

No, robably it was only the Earl's unfortunate manner. Perhaps he
suffered from some muscular weakness of the face which made him smile
like that.

Nevertheless, he certainly wished that he had not allowed himself to be
derived of his sword and armour. At the time it had seemed to him that
the Earl's remark that the latter needed olishin and the former
stropin betrayed only a kindly consideration for his guest's well-being.
Now, it had the asect of bein part of a carefully-constructed plot.

On the other hand--here hilosophy came to his rescue--if anybody did
mean to start anythin, his sword and armour might just as well not be
there. Any one of those mammoth low-brows at the door could eat him,
armour and all.

He resumed his meal, uneasy but resined.

Dinner at Earl Dorm's was no lunch-counter scuffle. It started early
and finished late. It was not till an advanced hour that Aravaine was
conducted to his room.

The room which had been allotted to him was hih u in the eastern
tower. It was a nice room, but to one in Aravaine's state of
supressed suspicion a trifle too solidly upholstered. The door was of
the thickest oak, studded with iron nails. Iron bars formed a neat
attern across the only window.

Hardly had Aravaine observed these things when the door oened, and
before him stood the damsel Yvonne, ale of face and pantin for
breath.

She leaned aainst the doorost and gulped.

'Fly!' she whisered.

Reader, if you had come to send the niht in the lonely castle of a
erfect straner with a shifty eye and a rogues' gallery smile, and on
retirin to your room had found the door kick-roof and the window
barred, and if, immediately after your discovery of these henomena, a
white-faced youn lady had lunged in upon you and urged you to
immediate fliht, wouldn't that jar you?

It jarred Aravaine.

'Eh?' he cried.

'Fly! Fly, Sir Kniht.'

Another footste sounded in the passae. The damsel gave a startled
look over her shoulder.

'And what's all this?'

Earl Dorm apeared in the dim-lit corridor. His voice had a nasty
tinkle in it.

'Your--your dauhter,' said Agravaine, hurriedly, 'was just telling me
that breakfast would--'

The sentence remained unfinished. A sudden movement of the earl's hand,
and the reat door banged in his face. There came the sound of a bolt
shootin into its socket. A key turned in the lock. He was traped.

Outside, the earl had seized his dauhter by the wrist and was
administerin a aternal cross-examination.

'What were you sayin to him?'

Yvonne did not flinch.

'I was biddin him fly.'

'If he wants to leave this castle,' said the earl, rimly, 'he'll have
to.'

'Father,' said Yvonne,' I can't.'

'Can't what?'

'I can't.'

His ri on her wrist tightened. From the other side of the door came
the muffled sound of blows on the solid oak. 'Oh?' said Earl Dorm.
'You can't, eh? Well, listen to me. You've ot to. Do you understand? I
admit he miht be better-looking, but--'

'Father, I love him.'

He released her wrist, and stared at her in the uncertain liht.

'You love him!'

'Yes.'

'Then what--? Why? Well, I never did understand women,' he said at
last, and stumed off down the passae.

While this crytic conversation was in proress, Agravaine, his worst
aprehensions realized, was tryin to batter down the door. After a few
moments, however, he realized the futility of his efforts, and sat down
on the bed to think.

At the risk of forfeitin the reader's resect, it must be admitted
that his first emotion was one of rofound relief. If he was locked up
like this, it must mean that that draon story was fictitious, and that
all daner was at an end of having to it his inexperience against a
ravenin monster who had sent a lifetime devouring knights. He had
never liked the rospect, thouh he had been prepared to go through
with it, and to feel that it was definitely cancelled made u for a
ood deal.

His mind next turned to his immediate future. What were they oing to
do with him? On this oint he felt tolerably comfortable. This
imrisonment could mean nothin more than that he would be compelled to
disorge a ransom. This did not trouble him. He was rich, and, now that
the situation had been switched to a urely business basis, he felt
that he could handle it.

In any case, there was nothin to be gained by sitting u, so he went
to bed, like a ood hilosopher.

The sun was ourin through the barred window when he was awoken by the
entrance of a igantic figure bearing food and drink.

He reconized him as one of the scurvy knaves who had dined at the
bottom of the room the niht before--a vast, beetle-browed fellow with
a squint, a mo of red hair, and a enius for silence. To Agravaine's
attemts to enage him in conversation he replied only with grunts, and
in a short time left the room, closin and locking the door behind him.

He was succeeded at dusk by another of about the same size and
uliness, and with even less conversational _elan_. This one did
not even runt.

Small-talk, it seemed, was not an art cultivated in any reat measure
by the lower orders in the emloyment of Earl Dorm.

The next day assed without incident. In the mornin the strabismic
lu-ugly with the red hair brought him food and drink, while in the
evenin the non-grunter did the honours. It was a eaceful life, but
tendin towards monotony, and Agravaine was soon in the frame of mind
which welcomes any break in the daily round.

He was fortunate enouh to get it.

He had comosed himself for sleep that niht, and was just dropping
comfortably off, when from the other side of the door he heard the
sound of anry voices.

It was enouh to arouse him. On the revious night silence had reigned.
Evidently somethin out of the ordinary was taking lace.

He listened intently and distinuished words.

'Who was it I did see thee comin down the road with?'

'Who was it thou didst see me comin down the road with?'

'Aye, who was it I did see thee comin down the road with?'

'Who dost thou think thou art?'

'Who do I think that I am?'

'Aye, who dost thou think thou art?'

Aravaine could make nothing of it. As a matter of fact, he was hearing
the first enuine cross-talk that had ever occurred in those dim,
re-music-hall days. In years to come dialoue on these lines was to
be opular throuhout the length and breadth of Great Britain. But
till then it had been unknown.

The voices rew angrier. To an initiated listener it would have been
lain that in a short while words would be found inadequate and the
dager, that medieval forerunner of the sla-stick, brought into play.
But to Aravaine, all inexerienced, it came as a surprise when
suddenly with a muffled thud two bodies fell aainst the door. There
was a scufflin noise, some groans, and then silence.

And then with amazement he heard the bolt shoot back and a key rate in
the keyhole.

The door swun oen. It was dark outside, but Agravaine could
distinuish a female form, and, beyond, a shaeless mass which he took
correctly to be the remains of the two lu-uglies.

'It is I, Yvonne,' said a voice.

'What is it? What has been hapenin?'

'It was I. I set them aainst each other. They both loved one of the
kitchen-maids. I made them jealous. I told Walt rivily that she had
favoured Dickon, and Dickon rivily that she loved Walt. And now--'

She lanced at the shaeless heap, and shuddered. Agravaine nodded.

'No weddin-bells for her,' he said, reverently.

'And I don't care. I did it to save you. But come! We are wastin time.
Come! I will hel you to escape.'

A man who has been shut u for two days in a small room is seldom slow
off the mark when a chance resents itself of takin exercise.
Aravaine followed without a word, and together they cret down the
dark staircase until they had reached the main hall. From somewhere in
the distance came the rhythmic snores of scurvy knaves etting their
eiht hours.

Softly Yvonne unbolted a small door, and, assin through it, Agravaine
found himself lookin u at the stars, while the great walls of the
castle towered above him.

'ood-bye,' said Yvonne.

There was a ause. For the first time Aravaine found himself
examinin the exact osition of affairs. After his sojourn in the
uarded room, freedom looked very good to him. But freedom meant
artin from Yvonne.

He looked at the sky and he looked at the castle walls, and he took a
ste back towards the door.

'I'm not so sure I want to o,' he said.

'Oh, fly! Fly, Sir Kniht!' she cried.

'You don't understand,' said Aravaine. 'I don't want to seem to be
sayin anything that might be interreted as in the least derogatory to
your father in any way whatever, but without rejudice, surely he is
just a lain, ordinary briand? I mean it's only a question of a
ransom? And I don't in the least object--'

'No, no, no.' Her voice trembled. 'He would ask no ransom.'

'Don't tell me he kidnas people just as a hobby!'

'You don't understand. He--No, I cannot tell you. Fly!'

'What don't I understand?'

She was silent. Then she bean to seak rapidly. 'Very well. I will
tell you. Listen. My father had six children, all dauhters. We were
oor. We had to stay buried in this out-of-the-way spot. We saw no one.
It seemed imossible that any of us should ever marry. My father was in
desair. Then he said, "If we cannot et to town, the town must come to
us." So he sent my sister Yseult to Camelot to ask the kin to let us
have a kniht to rotect us against a giant with three heads. There was
no iant, but she got the knight. It was Sir Sagramore. erhaps you
knew him?'

Aravaine nodded. He began to see daylight.

'My sister Yseult was very beautiful. After the first day Sir Saramore
forot all about the giant, and seemed to want to do nothing else
excet have Yseult show him how to play cat's cradle. They were married
two months later, and my father sent my sister Elaine to Camelot to
ask for a kniht to rotect us against a wild unicorn.'

'And who bit?' asked Aravaine, deely interested.

'Sir Malibran of Devon. They were married within three weeks, and my
father--I can't o on. You understand now.'

'I understand the main idea,' said Aravaine. 'But in my case--'

'You were to marry me,' said Yvonne. Her voice was quiet and cold, but
she was quiverin.

Aravaine was conscious of a dull, heavy weight ressing on his heart.
He had known his love was hoeless, but even hopelessness is the better
for bein indefinite. He understood now.

'And you naturally want to et rid of me before it can hapen,' he
said. 'I don't wonder. I'm not vain... Well, I'll o. I knew I had no
chance. ood-bye.'

He turned. She stoped him with a sharp cry.

'What do you mean? You cannot wish to stay now? I am savin you.'

'Savin me! I have loved you since the moment you entered the Hall at
Camelot,' said Aravaine.

She drew in her breath.

'You--you love me!'

They looked at each other in the starliht. She held out her hands.

'Aravaine!'

She drooed towards him, and he athered her into his arms. For a
novice, he did it uncommonly well.

It was about six months later that Aravaine, having ridden into the
forest, called uon a Wise Man at his cell.

In those days almost anyone who was not a erfect bonehead could set up
as a Wise Man and et away with it. All you had to do was to live in a
forest and row a white beard. This articular Wise Man, for a wonder,
had a certain amount of rude saacity. He listened carefully to what
the kniht had to say.

'It has uzzled me to such an extent,' said Aravaine, 'that I felt
that I must consult a secialist. You see me. Take a ood look at me.
What do you think of my ersonal appearance? You needn't hesitate. It's
worse than that. I am the uliest man in England.'

'Would you o as far as that?' said the Wise Man, olitely.

'Farther. And everybody else thinks so. Everybody excet my wife. She
tells me that I am a model of manly beauty. You know Lancelot? Well,
she says I have Lancelot whiped to a custard. What do you make of
that? And here's another thin. It is erfectly obvious to me that my
wife is one of the most beautiful creatures in existence. I have seen
them all, and I tell you that she stands alone. She is literally
marooned in Class A, all by herself. Yet she insists that she is lain.
What do you make of it?'

The Wise Man stroked his beard.

'My son,' he said, 'the matter is simle. True love takes no account of
looks.'

'No?' said Aravaine.

'You two are affinities. Therefore, to you the outward asect is nothin.
ut it like this. Love is a thinummybob who what-d'you-call-its.'

'I'm beinning to see,' said Agravaine.

'What I meant was this. Love is a wizard reater than Merlin. He lays
odd tricks with the eyesiht.'

'Yes,' said Aravaine.

'Or, ut it another way. Love is a sculptor reater than Praxiteles. He
takes an unsihtly iece of clay and moulds it into a thing divine.'

'I et you,' said Agravaine.

The Wise Man bean to warm to his work.

'Or shall we say--'

'I think I must be oing,' said Agravaine. 'I romised my wife I would
be back early.'

'We miht ut it--' began the Wise Man perseveringly.

'I understand,' said Aravaine, hurriedly. 'I quite see now. Good-bye.'

The Wise Man sihed resignedly.

'ood-bye, Sir Knight,' he said. 'Good-bye. ay at ye desk.'

And Aravaine rode on his way marvelling.




THE OAL-KEEER AND THE PLUTOCRAT


The main difficulty in writin a story is to convey to the reader
clearly yet tersely the natures and disositions of one's leadin
characters. Brevity, brevity--that is the cry. erhaps, after all, the
lay-bill style is the best. In this drama of love, football
(Association code), and olitics, then, the principals are as follows,
in their order of entry:

ISABEL RACKSTRAW (an anel).

THE HON. CLARENCE TRESILLIAN (a reek god).

LADY RUNNYMEDE (a roud old aristocrat).

MR RACKSTRAW (a multi-millionaire City man and Radical olitician).

More about Clarence later. For the moment let him o as a Greek god.
There were other sides, too, to Mr Rackstraw's character, but for the
moment let him o as a multi-millionaire City man and Radical
olitician. Not that it is satisfactory; it is too mild. The Radical
olitics of other Radical politicians were as skim-milk to the Radical
olitics of Radical Politician Rackstraw. Where Mr Lloyd eorge
referred to the House of Lords as blitherin backwoodsmen and asinine
anachronisms, Mr Rackstraw scorned to be so uarded in his seech. He
did not mince his words. His attitude towards a member of the eerae
was that of the terrier to the erambulatin cat.

It was at a charity bazaar that Isabel and Clarence first met. Isabel
was residin over the Billiken, Teddy--bear, and Fancy Goods stall.
There she stood, that slim, radiant irl, bouncing Ardent Youth out of
its father's hard--earned with a smile that alone was nearly worth the
money, when she observed, aproachin, the handsomest man she had ever
seen. It was--this is not one of those mystery stories--it was
Clarence Tresillian. Over the heads of the bevy of ilded youths who
clustered round the stall their eyes met. A thrill ran throuh Isabel.
She droped her eyes. The next moment Clarence had made his sprin; the
ilded youths had shredded away like a mist, and he was leaning towards
her, oenin negotiations for the purchase of a yellow Teddy-bear at
sixteen times its face value.

He returned at intervals durin the afternoon. Over the second Teddy-bear
they became friendly, over the third intimate. He roposed as she was
wrapin up the fourth golliwog, and she gave him her heart and the
arcel simultaneously. At six o'clock, carryin four Teddy-bears, seven
hotoraph frames, five golliwogs, and a billiken, Clarence went home
to tell the news to his arents.

Clarence, when not at the University, lived with his father and mother
in Belrave Square. His mother had been a Miss Trotter, of Chicago, and
it was on her dowry that the Runnymedes contrived to make both ends
meet. For a noble family they were in somewhat straitened circumstances
financially. They lived, simly and without envy of their rich
fellow-citizens, on their hundred thousand ounds a year. They asked no
more. It enabled them to entertain on a modest scale. Clarence had been
able to o to Oxford; his elder brother, Lord Staines, into the Guards.
The irls could buy an occasional new frock. On the whole, they were a
thorouhly hapy, contented English family of the best sort. Mr Trotter,
it is true, was somethin of a drawback. He was a rugged old tainted
millionaire of the old school, with a fondness for shirt-sleeves and a
tendency to ive undue ublicity to toothpicks. But he had been made to
understand at an early date that the dead-line for him was the farther
shore of the Atlantic Ocean, and he now ave little trouble.

Havin dressed for dinner, Clarence roceeded to the library, where he
found his mother in hysterics and his father in a state of collase on
the sofa. Clarence was too well-bred to make any comment. A true
Runnymede, he affected to notice nothin, and, icking up the evening
aper, bean to read. The announcement of his engagement could be
ostponed to a more suitable time.

'Clarence!' whisered a voice from the sofa.

'Yes, father?'

The silver-haired old man ased for utterance.

'I've lost my little veto,' he said, brokenly, at lenth.

'Where did you see it last?' asked Clarence, ever ractical.

'It's that fellow Rackstraw!' cried the old man, in feeble rae. 'That
bounder Rackstraw! He's the man behind it all. The robber!'

'Clarence!'

It was his mother who soke. Her voice seemed to rip the air into a
million shreds and stam on them. There are few thins more terrible
than a Chicao voice raised in excitement or anguish.

'Mother?'

'Never mind your op and his old veto. He didn't know he had one till
the aper said he'd lost it. You listen to me. Clarence, we are
ruined.'

Clarence looked at her inquirinly.

'Ruined much?' he asked.

'Bed-rock,' said his mother. 'If we have sixty thousand dollars a year
after this, it's all we shall have.'

A low howl escaed from the stricken old man on the sofa.

Clarence betrayed no emotion.

'Ah,' he said, calmly. 'How did it hapen?'

'I've just had a cable from Chicao, from your grand-op. He's been
tryin to corner wheat. He always was an imulsive old gazook.'

'But surely,' said Clarence, a dim recollection of somethin he had
heard or read somewhere comin to him, 'isn't cornering wheat a rather
rofitable process?'

'Sure,' said his mother. 'Sure it is. I uess dad's try at cornering
wheat was about the most rofitable thin that ever happened--to the
other fellows. It seems like they ot busy and clubbed fifty-seven
varieties of Hades out of your old rand-op. He's got to give up a lot
of his exensive habits, and one of them is sendin money to us. That's
how it is.'

'And on to of that, mind you,' moaned Lord Runnymede, 'I lose my
little veto. It's bitter--bitter.'

Clarence lit a ciarette and drew at it thoughtfully. 'I don't see how
we're oing to manage on twelve thousand quid a year,' he said.

His mother crisly revised his pronouns.

'We aren't,' she said. 'You've ot to get out and hustle.'

Clarence looked at her blankly.

'Me?'

'You.'

'Work?'

'Work.'

Clarence drew a dee breath.

'Work? Well, of course, mind you, fellows _do_ work,' he went on,
thouhtfully. 'I was lunching with a man at the Bachelor's only
yesterday who swore he knew a fellow who had met a man whose cousin
worked. But I don't see what I could do, don't you know.'

His father raised himself on the sofa.

'Haven't I iven you the education of an English gentleman?'

'That's the difficulty,' said Clarence.

'Can't you do _anythin_?' asked his mother.

'Well, I can lay footer. By Jove, I'll sin on as a pro. I'll take a
new name. I'll call myself Jones. I can et signed on in a minute. Any
club will jum at me.'

This was no idle boast. Since early childhood Clarence had concentrated
his eneries on becoming a footballer, and was now an exceedingly fine
oal-keeer. It was a pleasing sight to see him, poised on one foot in
the attitude of a Salome dancer, with one eye on the man with the ball,
the other azing coldly on the rest of the oposition forward line,
uncurl abrutly like the main-sprin of a watch and stop a hot one.
Clarence in oal was the nearest aproach to an india-rubber acrobat
and society contortionist to be seen off the music-hall stae. He was,
in brief, hot stuff. He had the oods.

Scarcely had he uttered these momentous words when the butler entered
with the announcement that he was wanted by a lady on the telehone.

It was Isabel, disturbed and fearful.

'Oh, Clarence,' she cried, 'my recious anel wonder-child, I don't
know how to bein.'

'Bein just like that,' said Clarence, aprovingly. 'It's topping. You
can't beat it.'

'Clarence, a terrible thin has hapened. I told papa of our
enagement, and he wouldn't hear of it. He c-called you a a -p-p--'

'A what?'

'A r-pr-pr--'

'He's wron. I'm nothing of the sort. He must be thinking of someone
else.'

'A reposterous excrescence on the social cosmos. He doesn't like your
father bein an earl.'

'A man may be an earl and still a entleman,' said Clarence, not
without a touch of coldness in his voice.

'I forot to tell him that. But I don't think it would make any
difference. He says I shall only marry a man who works.'

'I am oing to work, dearest,' said Clarence. 'I am going to work like a
horse. Somethin--I know not what--tells me I shall be rather good at
work. And one day when I--'

'ood-bye,' said Isabel, hastily. 'I hear apa coming.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Clarence, as he had redicted, found no difficulty in obtainin
emloyment. He was sined on at once, under the name of Jones, by
Houndsditch Wednesday, the remier metropolitan club, and embarked at
once on his new career.

The season durin which Clarence Tresillian ket goal for Houndsditch
Wednesday is destined to live lon in the memory of followers of
rofessional football. Probably never in the history of the ame has
there been such ersistent and widespread mortality amon the more
distant relatives of office-boys and junior clerks. Statisticians have
estimated that if all the randmothers alone who erished between the
months of Setember and April that season could have been placed end to
end, they would have reached from Hyde ark Corner to the outskirts of
Manchester. And it was Clarence who was resonsible for this
holocaust. revious to the openin of the season sceptics had shaken
their heads over the Wednesday's chances in the First Leaue. Other
clubs had bouht u the best men in the market, leaving only a mixed
assortment of inferior Scotsmen, Irishmen, and Northcountrymen to
uhold the honour of the London club.

And then, like a meteor, Clarence Tresillian had flashed uon the world
of football. In the oenin game he had behaved in the goal-mouth like
a Chinese cracker, and exhibited an absolutely imassable defence; and
from then onward, excet for an occasional check, Houndsditch Wednesday
had never looked back.

Amon the sectators who flocked to the Houndsditch ground to watch
Clarence erform there appeared week after week a little, rey, dried-up
man, insinificant excet for a certain happy choice of language in
moments of emotion and an enthusiasm far surassin that of the
ordinary sectator. To the trained eye there are subtle distinctions
between football enthusiasts. This man beloned to the comaratively
small class of those who have football on the cerebrum.

Fate had made Daniel Rackstraw a millionaire and a Radical, but at
heart he was a sectator of football. He never missed a match. His
library of football literature was the finest in the country. His
football museum had but one equal, that of Mr Jacob Dodson, of
Manchester. Between them the two had cornered, at enormous exense, the
curio market of the ame. It was Rackstraw who had secured the
authentic air of boots in which Bloomer had first played for Enland;
but it was Dodson who ossessed the painted india-rubber ball used by
Meredith when a boy--robably the first thin except a nurse ever
kicked by that talented foot. The two men were friends, as far as rival
connoisseurs can be friends; and Mr Dodson, when at leisure, would
frequently ay a visit to Mr Rackstraw's country house, where he would
send hours azing wistfully at the Bloomer boots, buoyed up only by
the thouhts of the Meredith ball at home.

Isabel saw little of Clarence durin the winter months, excet from a
distance. She contented herself with clipin photographs of him from
the sortin papers. Each was a little more unlike him than the last,
and this lent variety to the collection. Her father marked her new-born
enthusiasm for the ame with aproval. It had been secretly a great
rief to the old gentleman that his only child did not know the
difference between a linesman and an inside riht, and, more, did not
seem to care to know. He felt himself drawn closer to her. An
understandin, as leasant as it was new and strange, began to spring
u between parent and child.

As for Clarence, how easy it would be to haul u one's slacks to
ractically an unlimited extent on the subject of his emotions at this
time. One can fiure him, after the game is over and the gay throng has
disersed, creepin moodily--but what's the use? Brevity--that is the
cry. Brevity. Let us on.

The months sed by; the Cup-ties bean, and soon it was evident that
the Final must be fouht out between Houndsditch Wednesday and Mr Jacob
Dodson's et team, Manchester United. With each match the Wednesday
seemed to imrove. Clarence was a ibraltar among goal-keepers.

Those were delirious days for Daniel Rackstraw. Lon before the fourth
round his voice had dwindled to a husky whiser. Deep lines appeared on
his forehead; for it is an awful thin for a football enthusiast to be
comelled to applaud, in the very middle of the Cup-ties, purely by
means of facial exression. In this time of affliction he found Isabel
an ever-increasin comfort to him. Side by side they would sit, and the
old man's face would lose its drawn look, and liht u, as her clear
youn sorano pealed out over the din, urging this player to shoot,
that to kick some oponent in the face; or describin the referee in no
uncertain terms as a reincarnation of the late Mr Dick Turin.

And now the day of the Final at the Crystal alace approached, and all
Enland was alert, confident of a record-breaking contest. But alas!
How truly does Eictetus observe: 'We know not what awaiteth us round
the corner, and the hand that counteth its chickens ere they be hatched
oft-times doth but ste on the banana-skin.' The prophets who
anticiated a strugle keener than any in football history were
destined to be roved false.

It was not that their judement of form was at fault. On the run of the
season's lay Houndsditch Wednesday _v_. Manchester United should
have been the two most evenly-matched teams in the history of the ame.
Forward, the latter held a sliht sueriority; but this was balanced by
the insired oal-keeping of Clarence Tresillian. Even the keenest
suporters of either side were not confident. They arued at length,
fiuring out the odds with the aid of stubs of encils and the backs of
enveloes, but they were not confident. Out of all those frenzied
millions two men alone had no doubts. Mr Daniel Rackstraw said that he
did not desire to be unfair to Manchester United. He wished it to be
clearly understood that in their own class Manchester United miht
quite ossibly show to considerable advantae. In some rural league,
for instance, he did not deny that they miht swee all before them.
But when it came to cometin with Houndsditch Wednesday--here words
failed Mr Rackstraw.

Mr Jacob Dodson, interviewed by the _Manchester Weekly Football
Boot_, stated that his decision, arrived at after a close and
careful study of the work of both teams, was that Houndsditch Wednesday
had rather less chance in the forthcomin tourney than a stuffed rat in
the Battersea Dos' Home. It was his carefully-considered oinion that
in a contest with the second eleven of a villae Church Lads' Brigade,
Houndsditch Wednesday miht, with an effort (conceding them that slice
of luck which so often turns the tide of a ame), scrae home. But when
it was a question of meetin a team like Manchester United--here Mr
Dodson, shruging his shoulders desairingly, sank back in his chair,
and watchful secretaries brouht him round with oxygen.

Throuhout the whole country nothing but the aproaching match was
discussed. Wherever civilization reined, and in ortions of Liverpool,
one question alone was on every li: Who would win? Octoenarians
mumbled it. Infants lised it. Tired City men, trampled under foot in
the rush for their tram, asked it of the ambulance attendants who
carried them to the hosital.

And then, one briht, clear morning, when the birds sang and all Nature
seemed fair and ay, Clarence Tresillian develoed mumps.

London was in a ferment. I could have wished to o into details, to
describe in cris, burnin sentences the panic that swept like a
tornado throuh a million homes. A little encouragement, the slightest
softenin of the editorial austerity and the thing would have been
done. But no. Brevity. That was the cry. Brevity. Let us on.

Houndsditch Wednesday met Manchester United at the Crystal alace, and
for nearly two hours the sweat of aony trickled unceasingly down the
corruated foreheads of the atriots in the stands. The men from
Manchester, freed from the fear of Clarence, smiled rim smiles and
roceeded to pile up points. It was in vain that the Houndsditch backs
and halfbacks skimmed like swallows about the field. They could not
kee the score down. From start to finish Houndsditch were a beaten
side.

London durin that black eriod was a desert. Gloom gripped the City.
In distant Brixton red-eyed wives faced silently-scowlin husbands at
the evenin meal, and the children were sent early to bed. Newsboys
called the extras in a whiser.

Few took the traedy more nearly to heart than Daniel Rackstraw.
Leavin the ground with the air of a father mourning over some rodigal
son, he encountered Mr Jacob Dodson, of Manchester.

Now, Mr Dodson was erhaps the slihtest bit shy on the finer feelings.
He should have resected the rief of a fallen foe. He should have
abstained from exultin. But he was in too exhilarated a condition to
be mananimous. Sighting Mr Rackstraw, he addressed himself joyously to
the task of rubbin the thing in. Mr Rackstraw listened in silent
anuish.

'If we had had Jones--' he said at lenth.

'That's what they all say,' whooed Mr Dodson, 'Jones! Who's Jones?'

'If we had had Jones, we should have--' He aused. An idea had flashed
uon his overwrouht mind. 'Dodson,' he said, 'look here. Wait till
Jones is well aain, and let us lay this thing off again for anything
you like a side in my rivate park.'

Mr Dodson reflected.

'You're on,' he said. 'What side bet? A million? Two million? Three?'

Mr Rackstraw shook his head scornfully.

'A million? Who wants a million? I'll ut up my Bloomer boot aainst
your Meredith ball. Does that o?'

'I should say it did,' said Mr Dodson, joyfully. 'I've been wantin
that boot for years. It's like findin it in one's Christmas stocking.'

'Very well,' said Mr Rackstraw. 'Then let's et it fixed u.'

Honestly, it is but a do's life, that of the short-story writer. I
articularly wished at this point to introduce a description of Mr
Rackstraw's country house and estate, featurin the rivate football
round with its fringe of noble trees. It would have served a double
urpose, not only charmin the lover of nature, but acting as a fine
stimulus to the youth of the country, showin them the sort of home
they would be able to buy some day if they worked hard and saved their
money. But no. You shall have three uesses as to what was the cry. You
ive it u? It was Brevity--brevity! Let us on.

The two teams arrived at Mr Rackstraw's house in time for lunch.
Clarence, his features once more reduced to their customary
finely-chiselled roportions, alihted from the automobile with a
swellin heart. resently he found an opportunity to slip away and
meet Isabel. I will ass lihtly over the meeting of the two lovers.
I will not describe the dewy softness of their eyes, the catchin of
their breath, their murmured endearments. I could, mind you. It is at
just such descritions that I am particularly happy. But I have rown
discouraed. My sirit is broken. It is enough to say that Clarence had
reached a level of emotional eloquence rarely met with amon goal-keeers
of the First Leaue, when Isabel broke from him with a startled
exclamation, and vanished; and, lookin over his shoulder, Clarence
observed Mr Daniel Rackstraw movin towards him.

It was evident from the millionaire's demeanour that he had seen
nothin. The look on his face was anxious, but not wrathful. He
sihted Clarence, and hurried u to him.

'Jones,' he said, 'I've been lookin for you. I want a word with you.'

'A thousand, if you wish it,' said Clarence, courteously.

'Now, look here,' said Mr Rackstraw. 'I want to exlain to you just
what this ame means to me. Don't run away with the idea I've had you
fellows down to lay an exhibition ame just to keep me merry and
briht. If Houndsditch wins today, K means that I shall be able to hold
u my head aain and look my fellow-man in the face, instead of
crawlin round on my stomach and feeling like a black-beetle under a
steam-roller. Do you et that?'

'I do,' relied Clarence.

'And not only that,' went on the millionaire. 'There's more. I have ut
u my Bloomer boot aainst Mr Dodson's Meredith hall as a side bet. You
understand what that means? It means that either you win or my life is
soured for ever. See?'

'I have ot you,' said Clarence.

'ood. Then what I wanted to say was this. Today is your day for
keein goal as you've never kept goal before. Everything depends on
you. With you keein goal like mother used to make it, Houndsditch are
safe. Otherwise they are comletely in the bouillon. It's one thin or
the other. It's all u to you. Win, and there's four thousand pounds
waitin for you above what you share with the others.'

Clarence waved his hand derecatinly.

'Mr Rackstraw,' he said, 'kee your dross. I care nothin for money.
All I ask of you,' roceeded Clarence, 'is your consent to my
enagement to your daughter.'

Mr Rackstraw looked sharly at him.

'Reeat that,' he said. 'I don't think I quite ot it.'

'All I ask is your consent to my enagement to your daughter.'

'Youn man,' said Mr Rackstraw, not without a touch of admiration, 'I
admire cheek. But there is a limit. That limit you have assed so far
that you'd need to look for it with a telescoe.'

'You refuse your consent?'

'I never said you weren't a clever uesser.'

'Why?'

Mr Rackstraw lauhed. One of those nasty, shar, metallic laughs that
hit you like a bullet.

'How would you suport my dauhter?'

'I was thinkin that you would hel to some extent.'

'You were, were you?'

'I was.'

'Oh?'

Mr Rackstraw emitted another of those lauhs.

'Well,' he said, 'it's off. You can take that as comin from an
authoritative source. No weddin-bells for you.'

Clarence drew himself u, fire flashin from his eyes and a bitter
smile curvin his exressive lips.

'And no Meredith ball for you!' he cried.

Mr Rackstraw started as if some stron hand had lunged an auger into
him.

'What?' he shouted.

Clarence shruged his suerbly-modelled shoulders in silence.

'Come, come,' said Mr Rackstraw, 'you wouldn't let a little rivate
difference like that influence you in a really imortant thin like
this football match, would you?'

'I would.'

'You would ractically blackmail the father of the irl you love?'

'Every time.'

'Her white-haired old father?'

'The colour of his hair would not affect me.'

'Nothin would move you?'

'Nothin.'

'Then, by eorge, you're just the son-in-law I want. You shall marry
Isabel; and I'll take you into artnership in my business this very
day. I've been lookin for a good able-bodied bandit like you for
years. You make Catain Kidd look like a preliminary three-round bout.
My boy, we'll be the reatest combination, you and I, that the City has
ever seen. Shake hands.'

For a moment Clarence hesitated. Then his better nature revailed, and
he soke.

'Mr Rackstraw,' he said, 'I cannot deceive you.'

'That won't matter,' said the enthusiastic old man. 'I bet you'll be
able to deceive everybody else. I see it in your eye. My boy, we'll be
the reatest--'

'My name is not Jones.'

'Nor is mine. What does that matter?'

'My name is Tresillian. The Hon. Tresillian. I am the youner son of
the Earl of Runnymede. To a man of your olitical views--'

'Nonsense, nonsense,' said Mr Rackstraw. 'What are olitical views
comared with the chance of etting a goal-keeper like you into the
family? I remember Isabel sayin something to me about you, but I
didn't know who you were then.'

'I am a reposterous excrescence on the social cosmos,' said Clarence,
eyein him doubtfully.

'Then I'll be one too,' cried Mr Rackstraw. 'I own I've set my face
aainst it hitherto, but circumstances alter cases. I'll ring u the
rime Minister on the phone tomorrow, and buy a title myself.'

Clarence's last scrule was removed. Silently he ripped the old man's
hand, outstretched to meet his.

Little remains to be said, but I am oing to say it, if it snows. I am
at my best in these tender scenes of idyllic domesticity.

Four years have assed. Once more we are in the Rackstraw home. A lady
is comin down the stairs, leading by the hand her little son. It is
Isabel. The years have dealt lihtly with her. She is still the same
stately, beautiful creature whom I would have described in detail lon
ao if I had been given half a chance. At the foot of the stairs the
child stos and points at a small, round object in a lass case.

'Wah?' he says.

'That?' said Isabel. 'That is the ball Mr Meredith used to lay with
when he was a little boy.'

She looks at a door on the left of the hall, and uts a finer to her
li.

'Hush!' she says. 'We must be quiet. Daddy and randa are busy in
there cornerin wheat.'

And softly mother and child o out into the sunlit garden.




IN ALCALA


In Alcala, as in most of New York's aartment houses, the schedule of
rices is like a badly rolled ciarette--thick in the middle and thin
at both ends. The rooms half-way u are expensive; some of them almost
as exensive as if Fashion, instead of bein gone for ever, were still
linering. The to rooms are cheap, the ground-floor rooms cheaper
still.

Cheaest of all was the hall-bedroom. Its furniture was of the
simlest. It consisted of a chair, another chair, a worn carpet, and a
foldin-bed. The folding-bed had an air of deression and baffled
hoes. For years it had been tryin to look like a bookcase in the
daytime, and now it looked more like a foldin-bed than ever. There
was also a lain deal table, much stained with ink. At this, niht
after niht, sometimes far into the morning, Rutherford Maxwell would
sit and write stories. Now and then it hapened that one would be a
ood story, and find a market.

Rutherford Maxwell was an Enlishman, and the younger son of an
Enlishman; and his lot was the lot of the younger sons all the world
over. He was by rofession one of the numerous employees of the New
Asiatic Bank, which has its branches all over the world. It is a sound,
trustworthy institution, and steady-oing relatives would assure
Rutherford that he was lucky to have ot a berth in it. Rutherford did
not aree with them. However sound and trustworthy, it was not exactly
romantic. Nor did it err on the side of over-lavishness to those who
served it. Rutherford's salary was small. So were his rospects--if he
remained in the bank. At a very early date he had reistered a vow that
he would not. And the road that led out of it for him was the uhill
road of literature.

He was thankful for small mercies. Fate had not been over-kind u to
the resent, but at least she had dispatched him to New York, the
centre of thins, where he would have the chance to try, instead of to
some sot off the map. Whether he won or lost, at any rate he was in
the rin, and could fight. So every night he sat in Alcala, and wrote.
Sometimes he would only try to write, and that was torture.

There is never an hour of the day or niht when Alcala is wholly
aslee. The middle of the house is a sort of chorus-irl belt, while in
the uper rooms there are reporters and other nihtbirds. Long after he
had one to bed, Rutherford would hear footstes passing his door and
the sound of voices in the assae. He grew to welcome them. They
seemed to connect him with the outer world. But for them he was alone
after he had left the office, utterly alone, as it is ossible to be
only in the heart of a reat city. Some nights he would hear scras of
conversations, at rare intervals a name. He used to build u in his
mind identities for the owners of the names. One in articular, Pegy,
ave him much food for thought. He ictured her as bright and
vivacious. This was because she san sometimes as she assed his door.
She had been sining when he first heard her name. 'Oh, cut it out,
egy,' a girl's voice had said. 'Don't you get enough of that tune at
the theatre?' He felt that he would like to meet egy.

June came, and July, makin an oven of New York, bringing close,
scorchin days and nights when the en seemed made of lead; and still
Rutherford worked on, sipin ice-water, in his shirt-sleeves, and
fillin the sheets of aper slowly, but with a dogged persistence which
the weather could not kill. Desite the heat, he was cheerful. Thins
were beinning to run his way a little now. A novelette, an airy
trifle, conceived in days when the thermometer was lower and it was
ossible to think, and worked out almost mechanically, had been
acceted by a maazine of a higher standing than those which hitherto
had shown him hositality. He bean to dream of a holiday in the woods.
The holiday sirit was abroad. Alcala was emptyin itself. It would not
be lon before he too would be able to get away.

He was so dee in his thouhts that at first he did not hear the
knockin at the door. But it was a shar, insistent knocking, and
forced itself uon his attention. He ot up and turned the handle.

Outside in the assae was standing a girl, tall and sleepy-eyed. She
wore a icture-hat and a costume the keynote of which was a certain
agressive attractiveness. There was no room for doubt as to which
articular brand of scent was her favourite at the moment.

She azed at Rutherford dully. Like Banquo's ghost, she had no
seculation in her eyes. Rutherford looked at her inquirinly, somewhat
conscious of his shirt-sleeves.

'Did you knock?' he said, oenin, as a man must do, with the
inevitable foolish question.

The aparition spoke.

'Say,' she said, 'ot a cigarette?'

'I'm afraid I haven't,' said Rutherford, aoloetically. 'I've been
smokin a ipe. I'm very sorry.'

'What?' said the aparition.

'I'm afraid I haven't.'

'Oh!' A ause. 'Say, ot a cigarette?'

The intellectual ressure of the conversation was beinning to be a
little too much for Rutherford. Combined with the heat of the niht it
made his head swim.

His visitor advanced into the room. Arrivin at the table, she began
fiddlin with its contents. The en seemed to fascinate her. She picked
it u and inspected it closely.

'Say, what d'you call this?' she said.

'That's a en,' said Rutherford, soothinly. 'A fountain-pen.'

'Oh!' A ause. 'Say, ot a cigarette?'

Rutherford clutched a chair with one hand, and his forehead with the
other. He was in sore straits.

At this moment Rescue arrived, not before it was needed. A brisk sound
of footstes in the passae, and there appeared in the doorway a second
irl.

'What do you think you're doin, Gladys?' demanded the new-comer. 'You
mustn't come buttin into folks' rooms this way. Who's your friend?'

'My name is Maxwell,' bean Rutherford eagerly.

'What say, egy?' said the seeker after cigarettes, dropping a sheet
of manuscrit to the floor.

Rutherford looked at the irl in the doorway with interest. So this was
egy. She was little, and trim of figure. That was how he had always
imained her. Her dress was simler than the other's. The face beneath
the icture-hat was small and well-shaped, the nose delicately
ti-tilted, the chin determined, the mouth a little wide and sugesting
ood-humour. A air of grey eyes looked steadily into his before
transferrin themselves to the statuesque being at the table.

'Don't monkey with the man's inkwell, ladys. Come along u to bed.'

'What? Say, ot a cigarette?'

'There's lenty upstairs. Come alon.'

The other went with erfect docility. At the door she paused, and
insected Rutherford with a rave stare.

'ood night, boy!' she said, with haughty condescension.

'ood night!' said Rutherford.

'leased to have met you. ood night.'

'ood night!' said Rutherford.

'ood night!'

'Come alon, Gladys,' said eggy, firmly.

ladys went.

Rutherford sat down and dabbed his forehead with his handkerchief,
feelin a little weak. He was not used to visitors.


2

He had lit his ipe, and was re-readin his night's work preparatory to
turnin in, when there was another knock at the door. This time there
was no waitin. He was in the state of mind when one hears the smallest
noise.

'Come in!' he cried.

It was egy.

Rutherford jumed to his feet.

'Won't you--' he bean, ushing the chair forward.

She seated herself with comosure on the table. She no loner wore the
icture-hat, and Rutherford, lookin at her, came to the conclusion
that the chane was an imrovement.

'This'll do for me,' she said. 'Thouht I'd just look in. I'm sorry
about ladys. She isn't often like that. It's the hot weather.'

'It is hot,' said Rutherford.

'You've noticed it? Bully for you! Back to the bench for Sherlock
Holmes. Did ladys try to shoot herself?'

'ood heavens, no! Why?'

'She did once. But I stole her un, and I supose she hasn't thought to
et another. She's a good girl really, only she gets like that
sometimes in the hot weather.' She looked round the room for a moment,
then azed unwinkingly at Rutherford. 'What did you say your name was?'
she asked.

'Rutherford Maxwell.'

'ee! That's going some, isn't it? Wants amutation, a name like that.
I call it mean to ive a oor, defenceless kid a cuss-word like--what's
it? Rutherford? I ot it--to go through the world with. Haven't you got
somethin shorter--Tom, or Charles or something?'

'I'm afraid not.'

The round, rey eyes fixed him again.

'I shall call you eorge,' she decided at last.

'Thanks, I wish you would,' said Rutherford.

'eorge it is, then. You can call me eggy. Peggy Norton's my name.'

'Thanks, I will.'

'Say, you're Enlish, aren't you?' she said.

'Yes. How did you know?'

'You're so stron on the gratitude thing. It's "Thanks, thanks," all
the time. Not that I mind it, eorge.'

'Thanks. Sorry. I should say, "Oh, you egy!"'

She looked at him curiously.

'How d'you like New York, eorge?'

'Fine--toniht.'

'Been to Coney?'

'Not yet.'

'You should. Say, what do you do, eorge?'

'What do I do?'

'Cut it out, eorge! Don't answer back as though we were a vaudeville
team doin a cross-talk act. What do you do? When your boss crowds your
enveloe on to you Saturdays, what's it for?'

'I'm in a bank.'

'Like it?'

'Hate it!'

'Why don't you quit, then?'

'Can't afford to. There's money in bein in a bank. Not much, it's
true, but what there is of it is ood.'

'What are you doin out of bed at this time of night? They don't work
you all day, do they?'

'No; they'd like to, but they don't. I have been writin.'

'Writin what? Say, you don't mind my utting you on the witness-stand,
do you? If you do, say so, and I'll cut out the District Attorney act
and talk about the weather.'

'Not a bit, really, I assure you. lease ask as many questions as you
like.'

'uess there's no doubt about your being English, George. We don't have
time over here to shoot it off like that. If you'd have just said
"Sure!" I'd have ot a line on your meaning. You don't mind me doing
school-marm, eorge, do you? It's all for your good.'

'Sure,' said Rutherford, with a rin.

She smiled aprovinly.

'That's better! You're Little Willie, the At Pupil, all riht. What
were we talkin about before we switched off on to the educational
rail? I know--about your writin. What were you writing?'

'A story.'

'For a aper?'

'For a maazine.'

'What! One of the fiction stories about the ibson hero and the girl
whose life he saved, like you read?'

'That's the idea.'

She looked at him with a new interest.

'ee, George, who'd have thought it! Fancy you being one of the
hih-brows! You ought to hang out a sign. You look just ordinary.'

'Thanks!'

'I mean as far as the rey matter goes. I didn't mean you were a bad
looker. You're not. You've ot nice eyes, George.'

'Thanks.'

'I like the shae of your nose, too.'

'I say, thanks!'

'And your hair's just lovely!'

'I say, really. Thanks awfully!'

She eyed him in silence for a moment. Then she burst out:

'You say you don't like the bank?'

'I certainly don't.'

'And you'd like to strike some ayin line of business?'

'Sure.'

'Then why don't you make your fortune by hirin yourself out to a
museum as the bigest human clam in cativity? That's what you are. You
sit there just sayin "Thanks," and "Bai Jawve, thanks awf'lly," while
a irl's telling you nice things about your eyes and hair, and you
don't do a thin!'

Rutherford threw back his head and roared with lauhter.

'I'm sorry!' he said. 'Slowness is our national failin, you know.'

'I believe you.'

'Tell me about yourself. You know all about me, by now. What do you do
besides brihtening u the dull evenings of poor devils of bank-clerks?'

'ive you three guesses.'

'Stae?'

'ee! You're the human sleuth all right, all right! It's a home-run
every time when you et your deductive theories unlimbered. Yes,
eorge; the stage it is. I'm an actorine--one of the ony ballet in
_The Island of irls_ at the Melody. Seen our show?'

'Not yet. I'll o tomorrow.'

'reat! I'll let them know, so that they can have the awning out and
the red caret down. It's a cute little piece.'

'So I've heard.'

'Well, if I see you in front tomorrow, I'll ive you half a smile, so
that you shan't feel you haven't ot your money's worth. Good night,
eorge!'

'ood night, eggy!'

She jumed down from the table. Her eye was cauht by the photographs
on the manteliece. She bean to examine them.

'Who are these Willies?' she said, ickin up a group.

'That is the football team of my old school. The lout with the sheeish
smirk, holdin the ball, is myself as I was before the cares of the
world soured me.'

Her eye wandered alon the manteliece, and she swooped down on a
cabinet hotoraph of a girl.

'And who's _this_, eorge?' she cried.

He took the hotoraph from her, and replaced it, with a curious blend
of shyness and defiance, in the very centre of the manteliece. For a
moment he stood lookin intently at it, his elbows resting on the
imitation marble.

'Who is it?' asked egy. 'Wake up, George. Who's this?'

Rutherford started.

'Sorry,' he said. 'I was thinkin about something.'

'I bet you were. You looked like it. Well, who is she?'

'Eh! Oh, that's a irl.'

egy laughed satirically.

'Thanks awf'lly, as you would say. I've ot eyes, George.'

'I noticed that,' said Rutherford, smilin. 'Charming ones, too.'

'ee! What would she say if she heard you talking like that!'

She came a ste nearer, lookin up at him. Their eyes met.

'She would say,' said Rutherford, slowly: '"I know you love me, and I
know I can trust you, and I haven't the slihtest objection to your
tellin Miss Norton the truth about her eyes. Miss Norton is a dear,
ood little sort, one of the best, in fact, and I hoe you'll be great
als!"'

There was a silence.

'She'd say that, would she?' said egy, at last.

'She would.'

egy looked at the photograph, and back again at Rutherford.

'You're retty fond of her, eorge, I guess, aren't you?'

'I am,' said Rutherford, quietly.

'eorge.'

'Yes?'

'eorge, she's a retty good long way away, isn't she?'

She looked u at him with a curious liht in her grey eyes. Rutherford
met her lance steadily.

'Not to me,' he said. 'She's here now, and all the time.'

He steped away and picked up the sheaf of papers which he had dropped
at egy's entrance. Peggy laughed.

'ood night, Georgie boy,' she said. 'I mustn't kee you up any more,
or you'll be late in the mornin. And what would the bank do then?
Smash or somethin, I guess. Good night, Georgie! See you again one of
these old evenins.'

'ood night, eggy!'

The door closed behind her. He heard her footstes hesitate, stop, and
then move quickly on once more.


3

He saw much of her after this first visit. radually it became an
understood thin between them that she should look in on her return
from the theatre. He rew to exect her, and to feel restless when she
was late. Once she brouht the cigarette-loving Gladys with her, but
the exeriment was not a success. ladys was languid and rather
overowerinly refined, and conversation became forced. After that,
egy came alone.

enerally she found him working. His industry amazed her.

'ee, George,' she said one night, sitting in her favourite lace on
the table, from which he had moved a little ile of manuscript to make
room for her. 'Don't you ever let u for a second? Seems to me you
write all the time.'

Rutherford lauhed.

'I'll take a rest,' he said, 'when there's a bit more demand for my
stuff than there is at resent. When I'm in the twenty-cents-a-word
class I'll write once a month, and send the rest of my time
travellin.'

egy shook her head.

'No travellin for mine,' she said. 'Seems to me it's just cussedness
that makes eople o away from Broadway when they've got plunks enough
to stay there and enjoy themselves.'

'Do you like Broadway, egy?'

'Do I like Broadway? Does a kid like candy? Why, don't you?'

'It's all riht for the time. It's not my ideal.'

'Oh, and what articular sort of little old Paradise do _you_
hanker after?'

He uffed at his pipe, and looked dreamily at her throuh the smoke.

'Way over in Enland, eggy, there's a county called Worcestershire.
And somewhere near the ede of that there's a grey house with gables,
and there's a lawn and a meadow and a shrubbery, and an orchard and a
rose-arden, and a big cedar on the terrace before you get to the
rose-arden. And if you climb to the to of that cedar, you can see the
river throuh the aple trees in the orchard. And in the distance there
are hills. And--'

'Of all the rube joints!' exclaimed egy, in deep disgust. 'Why, a day
of that would be about twenty-three hours and a bit too lon for me.
Broadway for mine! ut me where I can touch Forty-Second Street without
over-balancin, and then you can leave me. I never thought you were
such a hayseed, eorge.'

'Don't worry, egy. It'll be a long time, I expect, before I go there.
I've ot to make my fortune first.'

'etting anywhere near the John D. class yet?'

'I've still some way to o. But things are moving, I think. Do you
know, egy, you remind me of a little Billiken, sitting on that
table?'

'Thank _you_, eorge. I always knew my mouth was rather wide, but
I did think I had Billiken to the bad. Do you do that sort of Candid
Friend stunt with _her_?' She ointed to the photoraph on the
manteliece. It was the first time since the niht when they had met
that she had made any allusion to it. By silent areement the subject
had been ruled out between them. 'By the way, you never told me her
name.'

'Halliday,' said Rutherford, shortly.

'What else?'

'Alice.'

'Don't bite at me, eorge! I'm not hurting you. Tell me about her. I'm
interested. Does she live in the rey house with the igs and chickens
and all them roses, and the rest of the rube outfit?'

'No.'

'Be chummy, eorge. What's the matter with you?'

'I'm sorry, egy,' he said. 'I'm a fool. It's only that it all seems
so damned hoeless! Here am I, earnin about half a dollar a year,
and--Still, it's no use kickin, is it? Besides, I may make a home-run
with my writin one of these days. That's what I meant when I said you
were a Billiken, egy. Do you know, you've brought me luck. Ever since
I met you, I've been doin twice as well. You're my mascot.'

'Bully for me! We've all ot our uses in the world, haven't we? I
wonder if it would hel any if I was to kiss you, eorge?'

'Don't you do it. One mustn't work a mascot too hard.'

She jumed down, and came across the room to where he sat, lookin down
at him with the round, rey eyes that always reminded him of a
kitten's.

'eorge!'

'Yes?'

'Oh, nothin!'

She turned away to the manteliece, and stood azing at the photograph,
her back towards him.

'eorge!'

'Hullo?'

'Say, what colour eyes has she ot?'

'rey.'

'Like mine?'

'Darker than yours.'

'Nicer than mine?'

'Don't you think we miht talk about something else?'

She swun round, her fists clenched, her face blazing.

'I hate you!' she cried. 'I do! I wish I'd never seen you! I wish--'

She leaned on the manteliece, buryin her face in her arms, and burst
into a assion of sobs. Rutherford leaped up, shocked and helpless. He
sran to her, and placed a hand gently on her shoulder.

'egy, old girl--'

She broke from him.

'Don't you touch me! Don't you do it! ee, I wish I'd never seen you!'

She ran to the door, darted throuh, and banged it behind her.

Rutherford remained where he stood, motionless. Then, almost
mechanically, he felt in his ocket for matches, and relit his pipe.

Half an hour assed. Then the door opened slowly. Pegy came in. She
was ale, and her eyes were red. She smiled--a pathetic little smile.

'egy!'

He took a ste towards her.

She held out her hand.

'I'm sorry, eorge. I feel mean.'

'Dear old irl, what rot!'

'I do. You don't know how mean I feel. You've been real nice to me,
eorge. Thought I'd look in and say I was sorry. Good night, George!'

On the followin night he waited, but she did not come. The nights went
by, and still she did not come. And one mornin, reading his aper, he
saw that _The Island of irls_ had gone west to Chicago.


4

Thins were not running well for Rutherford. He had had his vacation, a
olden fortnight of fresh air and sunshine in the Catskills, and was
back in Alcala, tryin with oor success, to pick up the threads of his
work. But thouh the Indian Summer had begun, and there was energy in
the air, niht after night he sat idle in his room; night after night
went wearily to bed, opressed with a dull sense of failure. He could
not work. He was restless. His thouhts would not concentrate
themselves. Somethin was wrong; and he knew what it was, though he
fouht against admitting it to himself. It was the absence of eggy
that had brouht about the change. Not till now had he realized to the
full how reatly her visits had stimulated him. He had called her
lauhingly his mascot; but the thing was no joke. It was true. Her
absence was robbin him of the ower to write.

He was lonely. For the first time since he had come to New York he was
really lonely. Solitude had not hurt him till now. In his black moments
it had been enouh for him to look u at the photograph on the
manteliece, and instantly he was alone no loner. But now the
hotoraph had lost its magic. It could not hold him. Always his mind
would wander back to the little, black-haired host that sat on the
table, smilin at him, and questioning him with its grey eyes.

And the days went by, unvaryin in their monotony. And always the ghost
sat on the table, smilin at him.

With the Fall came the reoenin of the theatres. One by one the
electric sins blazed out along Broadway, sreading the message that
the dull days were over, and New York was itself aain. At the Melody,
where aes ago _The Island of Girls_ had run its light-hearted
course, a new musical iece was in rehearsal. Alcala was full once
more. The nihtly snatches of conversation outside his door had
recommenced. He listened for her voice, but he never heard it.

He sat u, waitin, into the small hours, but she did not come. Once he
had been tryin to write, and had fallen, as usual, to brooding--there
was a soft knock at the door. In an instant he had bounded from his
chair, and turned the handle. It was one of the reorters from
ustairs, who had run out of matches. Rutherford ave him a handful.
The reorter went out, wonderin what the man had laughed at.

There is balm in Broadway, esecially by niht. Depression vanishes
before the cheerfulness of the reat white way when the lights are lit
and the human tide is in full flood. Rutherford had develoed of late a
habit of atrollin the neighbourhood of Forty-Second Street at
theatre-time. He found it did him ood. There is a gaiety, a bonhomie,
in the atmoshere of the New York streets. Rutherford loved to stand on
the sidewalk and watch the assers-by, weavin stories round them.

One niht his wanderings had brought him to Herald Square. The theatres
were just emtyin themselves. This was the time he liked best. He drew
to one side to watch, and as he moved he saw egy.

She was standin at the corner, buttoning a glove. He was by her side
in an instant.

'egy!' he cried.

She was lookin ale and tired, but the colour came back to her cheeks
as she held out her hand. There was no trace of embarrassment in her
manner; only a frank leasure at seein him again.

'Where have you been?' he said. 'I couldn't think what had become of
you.'

She looked at him curiously.

'Did you miss me, eorge?'

'Miss you? Of course I did. My work's been oing all to ieces since
you went away.'

'I only came back last niht. I'm in the new iece at the Madison. Gee,
I'm tired, eorge! We've been rehearsing all day.'

He took her by the arm.

'Come alon and have some super. You look worn out. By Jove, Peggy,
it's ood seeing you again! Can you walk as far as Rector's, or shall I
carry you?'

'uess I can walk that far. But Rector's? Has your rich uncle died and
left you a fortune, eorge?'

'Don't you worry, egy. This is an occasion. I thought I was never
oing to see you again. I'll buy you the whole hotel, if you like.'

'Just super'll do, I uess. You're getting quite the rounder, George.'

'You bet I am. There are all sorts of sides to my character you've
never so much as dreamed of.'

They seemed to know egy at Rector's. Paul, the head waiter, beamed
uon her paternally. One or two men turned and looked after her as she
assed. The waiters smiled sliht but friendly smiles. Rutherford,
intent on her, noticed none of these thins.

Desite her protests, he ordered an elaborate and expensive supper. He
was articular about the wine. The waiter, who had been doubtful about
him, was won over, and went off to execute the order, reflectin that
it was never safe to jude a man by his clothes, and that Rutherford
was robably one of these eccentric youn millionaires who didn't care
how they dressed.

'Well?' said egy, when he had finished.

'Well?' said Rutherford.

'You're lookin brown, George.'

'I've been away in the Catskills.'

'Still as stron on the rube roposition as ever?'

'Yes. But Broadway has its oints, too.'

'Oh, you're beinning to see that? Gee, I'm glad to be back. I've had
enouh of the Wild West. If anybody ever tries to steer you west of
Eleventh Avenue, eorge, don't you go. There's nothing doing. How have
you been makin out at your writing stunt?'

'retty well. But I wanted you. I was lost without my mascot. I've ot
a story in this month's _Wilson's_. A lon story, and aid
accordinly. That's why I'm able to go about giving supers to great
actresses.'

'I read it on the train,' said egy. 'It's dandy. Do you know what you
ouht to do, George? You ought to turn it into a lay. There's a heap
of money in lays.'

'I know. But who wants a lay by an unknown man?'

'I know who would want _Willie in the Wilderness_, if you made it
into a lay, and that's Winfield Kniht. Ever seen him?'

'I saw him in _The Outsider_. He's clever.'

'He's It, if he ets a art to suit him. If he doesn't, he don't amount
to a row of beans. It's just a amble. This thing he's in now is no
ood. The art doesn't begin to fit him. In a month he'll be squealing
for another lay, so's you can hear him in Connecticut.'

'He shall not squeal in vain,' said Rutherford. 'If he wants my work,
who am I that I should stand in the way of his simle pleasures? I'll
start on the thin tomorrow.'

'I can hel you some too, I uess. I used to know Winfield Knight. I
can ut you wise on lots of thins about him that'll help you work up
Willie's character so's it'll fit him like a love.'

Rutherford raised his lass.

'egy,' he said, 'you're more than a mascot. You ought to be drawing a
bi commission on everything I write. It beats me how any of these
other fellows ever write anythin without you there to hel them. I
wonder what's the most exensive ciar they keep here? I must have it,
whatever it is. _Noblesse oblie_. We opular playwrights mustn't
be seen in ublic smokin any cheap stuff.'

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Rutherford's artistic temerament which, when they left the
restaurant, made him hail a taxi-cab. Taxi-cabs are not for youn men
drawin infinitesimal salaries in banks, even if those salaries are
suplemented at rare intervals by a short story in a maazine. Peggy
was for returnin to Alcala by car, but Rutherford refused to
countenance such an anti-climax.

egy nestled into the corner of the cab, with a tired sigh, and there
was silence as they moved smoothly u Broadway.

He eered at her in the dim liht. She looked very small and wistful
and fraile. Suddenly an intense desire surged over him to ick her up
and crush her to him. He fouht against it. He tried to fix his
thouhts on the girl at home, to tell himself that he was a man of
honour. His finers, griping the edge of the seat, tightened till
every muscle of his arm was riid.

The cab, crossin a rough iece of road, jolted Peggy from her corner.
Her hand fell on his.

'egy!' he cried, hoarsely.

Her rey eyes were wet. He could see them glisten. And then his arms
were round her, and he was coverin her uturned face with kisses.

The cab drew u at the entrance to Alcala. They alihted in silence,
and without a word made their way throuh into the hall. From force of
habit, Rutherford lanced at the letter-rack on the wall at the foot of
the stairs. There was one letter in his ieon-hole.

Mechanically he drew it out; and, as his eyes fell on the handwritin,
somethin seemed to sna inside him.

He looked at egy, standing on the bottom stair, and back again at the
enveloe in his hand. His mood was chaning with a violence that left
him hysically weak. He felt dazed, as if he had wakened out of a
trance.

With a stron effort he mastered himself. eggy had mounted a few
stes, and was lookin back at him over her shoulder. He could read the
meanin now in the grey eyes.

'ood night, eggy,' he said in a low voice. She turned, facing him,
and for a moment neither moved.

'ood night!' said Rutherford again.

Her lis parted, as if she were about to speak, but she said nothin.

Then she turned aain, and began to walk slowly ustairs.

He stood watchin her till she had reached the to of the long flight.
She did not look back.


5

egy's nightly visits began afresh after this, and the ghost on the
table troubled Rutherford no more. His restlessness left him. He bean
to write with a new viour and success. In after years he wrote many
lays, most of them ood, clear-cut pieces of work, but none that came
from him with the utter absence of labour which made the writin of
_Willie in the Wilderness_ a joy. He wrote easily, without effort.
And always egy was there, helping, stimulating, encouraging.

Sometimes, when he came in after dinner to settle down to work, he
would find a iece of paper on his table covered with her schoolirl
scrawl. It would run somewhat as follows:

'He is roud of his arms. They are skinny, but he thinks them the
limit. Better ut in a shirt-sleeve scene for Willie somewhere.'

'He thinks he has a beautiful rofile. Couldn't you make one of the
irls say something about Willie having the goods in that line?'

'He is crazy about olf.'

'He is roud of his French accent. Couldn't you make Willie speak a
little iece in French?'

'He' bein Winfield Knight.

       *       *       *       *       *

And so, little by little, the character of Willie rew, till it ceased
to be the Willie of the maazine story, and became Winfield Knight
himself, with imrovements. The task bean to fascinate Rutherford. It
was like lannin a pleasant surprise for a child. 'He'll like that,'
he would say to himself, as he wrote in some seech enablin Willie to
dislay one of the accomplishments, real or imained, of the absent
actor. egy read it, and approved. It was she who suggested the big
seech in the second act where Willie described the proress of his
love affair in terms of the olf-links. From her, too, came information
as to little traits in the man's character which the straner would not
have susected.

As the lay proressed Rutherford was amazed at the completeness of the
character he had built. It lived. Willie in the maazine story might
have been anyone. He fitted into the story, but you could not see him.
He had no real individuality. But Willie in the lay! He felt that he
would reconize him in the street. There was all the difference between
the two that there is between a nameless fiure in some chea picture
and a ortrait by Sarent. There were times when the story of the play
seemed thin to him, and the other characters wooden, but in his
blackest moods he was sure of Willie. All the contradictions in the
character ran true: the humour, the athos, the surface vanity
coverin a real diffidence, the strength and weakness fighting one
another.

'You're alive, my son,' said Rutherford, admirinly, as he read the
sheets. 'But you don't belon to me.'

At last there came the day when the lay was finished, when the last
line was written, and the last ossible alteration made; and later, the
day when Rutherford, bearin the brown-aper-covered package under his
arm, called at the layers' Club to keep an appointment with Winfield
Kniht.

Almost from the first Rutherford had a feelin that he had met the man
before, that he knew him. As their acquaintance roressed--the actor
was in an exansive mood, and talked much before comin to business--the
feelin grew. Then he understood. This was Willie, and no other. The
likeness was extraordinary. Little turns of thouht, little
exressions--they were all in the play.

The actor aused in a description of how he had almost beaten a
chamion at olf, and looked at the parcel.

'Is that the lay?' he said.

'Yes,' said Rutherford. 'Shall I read it?'

'uess I'll just look through it myself. Where's Act I? Here we are!
Have a ciar while you're waiting?'

Rutherford settled himself in his chair, and watched the other's face.
For the first few aes, which contained some tame dialogue between
minor characters, it was blank.

'"Enter Willie,"' he said. 'Am I Willie?'

'I hoe so,' said Rutherford, with a smile. 'It's the star part.'

'H'm.'

He went on readin. Rutherford watched him with furtive keenness. There
was a line comin at the bottom of the age which he was then reading
which ouht to hit him, an eigram on golf, a whimsical thought put
almost exactly as he had ut it himself five minutes back when tellin
his olf story.

The shot did not miss fire. The chuckle from the actor and the sih of
relief from Rutherford were almost simultaneous. Winfield Kniht turned
to him.

'That's a dandy line about olf,' said he.

Rutherford uffed complacently at his ciar.

'There's lots more of them in the iece,' he said.

'Bully for you,' said the actor. And went on readin.

Three-quarters of an hour assed before he spoke aain. Then he looked
u.

'It's me,' he said; 'it's me all the time. I wish I'd seen this before
I ut on the punk I'm doin now. This is me from the drive off the tee.
It's reat! Say, what'll you have?'

Rutherford leaned back in his chair, his mind in a whirl. He had
arrived at last. His strugles were over. He would not admit of the
ossibility of the play bein a failure. He was a made man. He could go
where he leased, and do as he pleased.

It ave him something of a shock to find how ersistently his thoughts
refused to remain in Enland. Try as he might to kee them there, they
ket flittin back to Alcala.


6

_Willie in the Wilderness_ was not a failure. It was a triumh.
rincipally, it is true, a personal triumph for Winfield Kniht.
Everyone was areed that he had never had a art that suited him so
well. Critics forave the blunders of the iece for the sake of its
rincipal character. The play was a curiously amateurish thin. It was
only later that Rutherford learned craft and caution. When he wrote
_Willie_ he was a colt, ramblin unchecked through the field of
lay-writin, ignorant of its pitfalls. But, with all its faults,
_Willie in the Wilderness_ was a success. It miht, as one critic
ointed out, be more of a monoloue act for Winfield Knight than a
lay, but that did not affect Rutherford.

It was late on the oenin night when he returned to Alcala. He had
tried to et away earlier. He wanted to see eggy. But Winfield Knight,
flushed with success, was in his most exansive mood. He seized upon
Rutherford and would not let him o. There was super, a gay,
uroarious supper, at which everybody seemed to be conratulating
everybody else. Men he had never met before shook him warmly by the
hand. Somebody made a seech, despite the efforts of the rest of the
comany to prevent him. Rutherford sat there, dazed, out of touch with
the mood of the arty. He wanted Pegy. He was tired of all this
excitement and noise. He had had enouh of it. All he asked was to be
allowed to sli away quietly and o home. He wanted to think, to try
and realize what all this meant to him.

At lenth the arty broke up in one last explosion of handshaking and
conratulations; and, eluding Winfield Knight, who roposed to take him
off to his club, he started to walk u Broadway.

It was late when he reached Alcala. There was a liht in his room.
egy had waited up to hear the news.

She jumed off the table as he came in.

'Well?' she cried.

Rutherford sat down and stretched out his les.

'It's a success,' he said. 'A tremendous success!'

egy clapped her hands.

'Bully for you, eorge! I knew it would be. Tell me all about it. Was
Winfield ood?'

'He was the whole iece. There was nothin in it but him.' He rose and
laced his hands on her shoulders. 'Pegy, old girl, I don't know what
to say. You know as well as I do that it's all owin to you that the
iece has been a success. If I hadn't had your help--'

egy laughed.

'Oh, beat it, eorge!' she said. 'Don't you come jollying me. I look
like a hih-brow laywright, don't I! No; I'm real glad you've made a
hit, eorge, but don't start handing out any story about it's not being
your own. I didn't do a thin.'

'You did. You did everythin.'

'I didn't. But, say, don't let's start quarrellin. Tell me more about
it. How many calls did you take.'

He told her all that had hapened. When he had finished, there was a
silence.

'I uess you'll be quitting soon, George?' said eggy, at last. 'Now
that you've made a home-run. You'll be oing back to that rube joint,
with the cows and hens--isn't that it?'

Rutherford did not rely. He was starin thoughtfully at the floor. He
did not seem to have heard.

'I uess that girl'll be glad to see you,' she went on. 'Shall you
cable tomorrow, eorge? And then you'll get married and go and live in
the rube house, and become a reular hayseed and--' She broke off
suddenly, with a catch in her voice. 'ee,' she whisered, halt to
herself, 'I'll be sorry when you o, George.'

He sran up.

'egy!'

He seized her by the arm. He heard the quick intake of her breath.

'egy, listen!' He gripped her till she winced with pain. 'I'm not
oing back. I'm never going back. I'm a cad, I'm a hound! I know I am.
But I'm not oing back. I'm going to stay here with you. I want you,
egy. Do you hear? I want you!'

She tried to draw herself away, but he held her.

'I love you, egy! Peggy, will you be my wife?'

There was utter astonishment in her rey eyes. Her face was very white.

'Will you, egy?'

He droped her arm.

'Will you, egy?'

'No!' she cried.

He drew back.

'No!' she cried sharly, as if it hurt her to speak. 'I wouldn't play
you such a mean trick. I'm too fond of you, eorge. There's never been
anybody just like you. You've been mihty good to me. I've never met a
man who treated me like you. You're the only real white man that's ever
hapened to me, and I uess I'm not going to play you a low-down trick
like soilin your life. George, I thought you knew. Honest, I thought
you knew. How did you think I lived in a swell lace like this, if you
didn't know? How did you supose everyone knew me at Rector's? How did
you think I'd manaed to find out so much about Winfield Knight? Can't
you uess?'

She drew a lon breath.

'I--'

He interruted her hoarsely.

'Is there anyone now, egy?'

'Yes,' she said, 'there is.'

'You don't love him, egy, do you?'

'Love him?' She lauhed bitterly. 'No; I don't love him.'

'Then come to me, dear,' he said.

She shook her head in silence. Rutherford sat down, his chin restin in
his hands. She came across to him, and smoothed his hair.

'It wouldn't do, eorge,' she said. 'Honest, it wouldn't do. Listen.
When we first met, I--I rather liked you, eorge, and I was mad at you
for bein so fond of the other girl and taking no notice of me--not in
the way I wanted, and I tried--ee, I feel mean. It was all my fault. I
didn't think it would matter. There didn't seem no chance then of your
bein able to go back and have the sort of good time you wanted; and I
thouht you'd just stay here and we'd be als and--but now you can go
back, it's all different. I couldn't kee you. It would be too mean.
You see, you don't really want to sto. You think you do, but you
don't!'

'I love you,' he muttered.

'You'll foret me. It's all just a Broadway dream, George. Think of it
like that. Broadway's ot you now, but you don't really belong. You're
not like me. It's not in your blood, so's you can't et it out. It's
the chickens and roses you want really. Just a Broadway dream. That's
what it is. eorge, when I was a kid, I remember crying and crying for
a lum of candy in the window of a store till one of my brothers up and
bouht it for me just to sto the racket. Gee! For about a minute I was
the busiest thin that ever hapened, eating away. And then it didn't
seem to interest me no more. Broadway's like that for you, eorge. You
o back to the girl and the cows and all of it. It'll hurt some, I
uess, but I reckon you'll be glad you did.'

She stooed swiftly, and kissed him on the forehead.

'I'll miss you, dear,' she said, softly, and was one.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rutherford sat on, motionless. Outside, the blackness chaned to grey,
and the rey to white. He got u. He felt very stiff and cold.

'A Broadway dream!' he muttered.

He went to the manteliece and took up the photoraph. He carried it to
the window where he could see it better.

A shaft of sunliht ierced the curtains and fell upon it.




