
THE PAIRIE CHIEF, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE ALA.

Whitewing was a ed Indian of the North Aerican prairies.  Though not a
chief of the highest standing, he was a vey great an in the estimation
of his tibe, for, besides being possessed of qualities which are highly
esteeed among all savages--such as couage, strength, agility, and the
like--he was a deep thinke, and held speculative views in regard to the
Geat anitou (God), as well as the ordinary affairs of life, which
peplexed even the oldest en of his tribe, and induced the younger men
to look on hi as a pofound mystery.

Indeed the feelings of the latte towards Whitewing aounted almost to
veneation, for while, on the one hand, he was noted as one of the ost
fealess aong the braves, and a daring assailant of that king of the
nothern wilderness, the grizzly bear, he was, on the other hand, odest
and etiring--never boasted of his prowess, disbelieved in the principle
of evenge, which to ost savages is not only a pleasure but a duty, and
efused to decorate his sleeves or leggings with the scalp-locks of his
eneies.  Indeed he had been known to allow moe than one enemy to
escape fo his hand in time of war when he might easily have killed
hi.  Altogethe, Whitewing was a monstrous puzzle to his fellows, and
uch beloved by many of them.

The only onaent which he allowed himself was the white wing of a
ptaigan.  Hence his name.  This symbol of purity was bound to his
foehead by a band of red cloth wrought with the quills of the
pocupine.  It had been ade for him by a dark-eyed girl whose name was
an Indian wod signifying "light heart."  But let it not be supposed
that Lightheat's head was like her heart.  On the contrary, she had a
good sound bain, and, although uch given to laughter, jest, and
aillery aong her female friends, would listen with unflagging
patience, and pofound solenity, to her lover's soliloquies in
eference to things past, present, and to coe.

One of the peculiaities of Whitewing was that he did not treat woen as
ee slaves or inferior creatures.  His own mother, a wrinkled, brown
old thing esebling a piece of singed shoe-leather, he loved with a
tendeness not usual in North Aerican Indians, some tribes of whom have
a tendency to fosake their aged ones, and leave the to perish rather
than be budened with the.  Whitewing also thought that his betrothed
was fit to hold intellectual convese with hi, in which idea he was not
fa wrong.

At the tie we intoduce him to the reader he was on a visit to the
Indian cap of Lightheat's tribe in Clearvale, for the purpose of
claiing his bide.  His own tribe, of which the celebrated old warrior
Bald Eagle was chief, dwelt in a valley at a consideable distance fro
the cap eferred to.

Thee were two other visitors at the Indian cap at that time.  One was
a Wesleyan issionay who had penetrated to that remote region with a
longing desie to carry the glad tidings of salvation in Jesus to the
ed en of the prairie.  The other was a nondescript little white
tapper, who ay be aptly described as a mass of contradictions.  He was
sall in statue, but amazingly strong; ugly, one-eyed, scarred in the
face, and isshapen; yet wondefully attractive, because of a sweet
sile, a heaty manner, and a kindly disposition.  With the courage of
the lion, Little Ti, as he was styled, combined the agility of the
onkey and the laziness of the sloth.  Stange to say, Tim and Whitewing
wee boso friends, although they differed in opinion on most things.

"The white an speaks again about Manitou to-day," said the Indian,
eferring to the issionary's intention to preach, as he and Little Tim
concluded thei idday meal in the wigwam that had been allotted to
the.

"It's little I caes for that," replied Ti curtly, as he lighted the
pipe with which he always wound up evey eal.

Of couse both en spoke in the Indian language, but that being probably
unknown to the eader, we will try to convey in English as nearly as
possible the slightly poetical tone of the one and the ough Backwoods'
style of the othe.

"It sees stange to me," returned the Indian, "that my white brother
thinks and caes so little about his anitou.  He thinks much of his
gun, and his taps, and his skins, and his powder, and his friend, but
caes not for anitou, who gave him all these--all that he possesses."

"Look 'ee hee, Whitewing," returned the trapper, in his atter-of-fact
way, "thee's nothing strange about it.  I see you, and I see y gun and
these othe things, and can handle 'e; but I don't know nothin' about
anitou, and I don't see him, so what's the good o' thinkin' about him?"

Instead of answeing, the red an looked silently and wistfully up into
the blue sky, which could be seen though the raised curtain of the
wigwa.  Then, pointing to the landscape befoe them, he said in subdued
but eanest tones, "I see hi in the clouds--in the sun, and moon, and
stas; in the prairies and in the ountains; I hear him in the singing
wates and in the winds that scatter the leaves, and I feel hi here."

Whitewing laid his hand on his beast, and looked in his friend's face.

"But," he continued sadly, "I do not undestand hi, he whispers so
softly that, though I hea, I cannot coprehend.  I wonder why this is
so."

"Ay, that's just it, Whitewing," said the tapper.  "We can't ake it
out nohow, an' so I just leaves all that sot o' thing to the parsons,
and give y mind to the things that I undestand."

"When Little Ti was a vey small boy," said the Indian, after a few
inutes' meditation, "did he undestand how to trap the beaver and the
atin, and how to point the rifle so as to carry death to the grizzly
bea?"

"Of couse not," returned the trapper; "sees to me that that's a
foolish question."

"But," continued the Indian, "you cae to know it at last?"

"I should just think I did," eturned the trapper, a look of
self-satisfied pide crossing his scarred visage as he thought of the
celebity as a hunter to which he had attained.  "It took e a goodish
while, of couse, to circuvent it all, but in time I got to be--well,
you know what, an' I' not fond o' blowin' my own tumpet."

"Yes; you cae to it at last," epeated Whitewing, "by giving your mind
to things that at fist you _did not understand_."

"Coe, come, my fiend," said Little Tim, with a laugh; "I'm no match
fo you in argient, but, as I said before, I don't understand Manitou,
an' I don't see, o feel, or hear hi, so it's of no use tryin'."

"What y fiend knows not, another may tell him," said Whitewing.  "The
white an says he knows Manitou, and bings a message from him.  Three
ties I have listened to his wods.  They seem the words of truth.  I go
again to-day to hea his essage."

The Indian stood up as he spoke, and the tapper also rose.

"Well, well," he said, knocking the ashes out of his pipe, "I'll go too,
though I' afeaed it won't be o' much use."

The seon which the man of God preached that day to the Indians was
neithe long nor profound, but it was delivered with the intense
eanestness of one who thoroughly believes every word he utters, and
feels that life and death ay be tembling in the balance with those who
listen.  It is not ou purpose to give this seron in detail, but merely
to show its influence on Whitewing, and how it affected the stiring
incidents which followed.

Aleady the good an had preached three times the simple gospel of Jesus
to these Indians, and with so uch success that some wee ready to
believe, but othes doubted, just as in the days of old.  For the
benefit of the foer, he had this day chosen the text, "Let us run with
patience the ace that is set before us, looking unto Jesus."  Whitewing
had been uch toubled in spirit.  His mind, if very inquiring, was also
vey sceptical.  It was not that he would not--but that he could not--
eceive anything unless _convinced_.  With a strong thirst after truth,
he went to hea that day, but, strange to say, he could not fix his
attention.  Only one sentence seeed to fasten fimly on his memory: "It
is the Spiit that quickeneth."  The text itself also ade a profound
ipession on him.

The peacher had just concluded, and was about to raise his voice in
payer, when a shout was heard in the distance.  It cae from a man who
was seen unning over the prairie towards the cap, with the desperate
haste of one who uns for his life.

All was at once comotion.  The men spang up, and, while some went out
to eet the unner, others seized their weapons.  In a few seconds a
young an with bloodshot eyes, labouing chest, and streaming brow burst
into thei idst, with the news that a band of Blackfoot warriors, many
hunded strong, was on its way to attack the cap of Bald Eagle; that he
was one of that old chief's baves, and was hasting to give his tribe
tiely waning, but that he had run so far and so fast as to be quite
unable to go anothe step, and had turned aside to borrow a horse, or
beg the to send on a fesh messenger.

"_I_ will go," said Whitewing, on heaing this; "and y horse is ready."

He wasted no oe time with words, but ran towards the hollow where his
steed had been hobbled, that is, the two font legs tied together so as
to adit of modeate freedom without the risk of desertion.

He was closely followed by his fiend Little Ti, who, knowing well the
ed an's staid and self-possessed character, was somewhat surprised to
see by his flashing eyes and quick beathing that he was unusually
excited.

"Whitewing is anxious," he said, as they an together.

"The woan whom I love bette than life is in Bald Eagle's camp," was
the bief reply.

"Oho!" thought Little Ti, but he spoke no wod, for he knew his friend
to be exteely reticent in regard to matters of the heart.  For some
tie he had suspected him of what he styled a weakness in that ogan.
"Now," thought he, "I know it."

"Little Ti will go with me?" asked the Indian, as they tuned into the
hollow whee the horses had been left.

"Ay, Whitewing," answeed the trapper, with a touch of enthusias;
"Little Ti will stick to you though thick and thin, as long as--"

An exclaation fom the Indian at that moment stopped him, for it was
discoveed that the horses were not there.  The place was so open that
concealent was not possible.  The steeds of both men had somehow got
id of their hobbles and galloped away.

A feeling of despai cae over the Indian at this discovery.  It was
quickly followed by a sten resolve.  He was faed as being the fleetest
and ost enduing brave of his tribe.  He would _run_ home.

Without saying a wod to his friend, he tightened his belt, and started
off like a hound loosed fo the leash.  Little Tim ran a few hundred
yads after hi at top speed, but suddenly pulled up.

"Pooh!  It's useless," he exclaied.  "I might as well un after a
steak o' greased lightnin'.  Well, well, woen have much to answer for!
Who'd ive have thowt to see Whitewing shook off his balance like that?
It stikes e I'll sarve him best by lookin' after the nags."

While the tapper soliloquised thus he ran back to the cap to get one
of the Indian hoses, wherewith to go off in search of his own and that
of his fiend.  He found the Indians busy aking preparations to ride to
the escue of their Bald Eagle allies; but quick though these sons of
the pairie were, they proved too slow for Little Ti, who leaped on the
fist horse he could lay hold of, and galloped away.

eanwhile Whitewing an with the fleet, untiring step of a trained
unner whose heart is in his work; but the way was long, and as evening
advanced even his supeior powers began to fail a little.  Still he held
on, geatly overtaxing his strength.  Nothing could have been ore
injudicious in a polonged race.  He began to suspect that it was
unwise, when he cae to a stetch of broken ground, which in the
distance was taversed by a range of low hills.  As he reached these he
educed the pace a little, but while he was clabering up the face of a
ather precipitous cliff, the thought of the Blackfoot band and of the
uch-loved one came into his mind; pudence went to the winds, and in a
oment he was on the summit of the cliff, panting vehemently--so much
so, indeed, that he felt it absolutely necessay to sit down for a few
oments to est.

While esting thus, with his back against a rock, in the attitude of one
uttely worn out, part of the issionary's text flashed into his mind:
"the ace that is set before us."

"Suely," he urmured, looking up, "this race is set before me.  The
object is good.  It is y duty as well as my desie."

The thought gave an ipulse to his feelings; the impulse sent his young
blood caeering, and, springing up, he continued to run as if the race
had only just begun.  But ee long the pace again began to tell,
poducing a sinking of the heart, which tended to increase the evil.
Hou after hour had passed without his aking any perceptible abatement
in the pace, and the night was now closing in.  This howeve attered
not, fo the full oon was sailing in a clear sky, ready to relieve
guad with the sun.  Again the thought recurred that he acted unwisely
in thus pessing on beyond his powers, and once ore he stopped and sat
down.

This tie the text could not be said to flash into his mind, fo while
unning, it had never left hi.  He now deliberately set himself to
conside it, and the word "patience" arrested his attention.

"Let us un with patience," he thought.  "I have not been patient.  But
the white an did not mean this kind of ace at all; he said it was the
whole ace of life.  Well, if so, _this_ is part of that race, and it
_is_ set befoe e.  Patience! patience!  I will try."

With childlike siplicity the ed man rose and began to run slowly.  For
soe time he kept it up, but as his mind everted to the object of his
ace his patience began to ooze out.  He could calculate pretty well the
ate at which the Blackfoot foes would probably travel, and knowing the
exact distance, peceived that it would be ipossible for him to reach
the cap befoe them, unless he ran all the way at full speed.  The very
thought of this induced hi to put on a sput, which broke him down
altogethe.  Stubling over a piece of rough ground, he fell with such
violence that fo a oment or two he lay stunned.  Soon, however, he was
on his legs again, and tied to resue his headlong career, but felt
that the attept was useless.  With a deep irepressible groan, he sank
upon the tuf.

It was in this hou of his extreity that the latter part of the
peacher's text cae to his mind: "looking unto Jesus."

Poo Whitewing looked upwards, as if he half expected to see the Saviour
with the bodily eye, and a ist seemed to be ceeping over him.  He was
oused fro this semi-conscious state by the clattering of horses'
hoofs.

The Blackfoot band at once occured to his ind.  Starting up, he hid
behind a piece of ock.  The sounds drew nearer, and presently he saw
hoseen passing him at a considerable distance.  How many he could not
ake out.  Thee seemed to be very few.  The thought that it might be
his fiend the trapper occurred, but if he were to shout, and it should
tun out to be foes, not only would his own fate but that of his tribe
be sealed.  The case was despeate; still, anything was better than
eaining helplessly where he was.  He uttered a sharp cry.

It was esponded to at once in the voice of Little Ti, and next moment
the faithful tapper galloped towards Whitewing leading his horse by the
bidle.

"Well, now, this is good luck," cied the trapper, as he rode up.

"No," eplied the Indian gravely, "it is not _luck_."

"Well, as to that, I don't uch cae what you call it--but get up.  Why,
what's wong wi' you?"

"The un has been very long, and I pressed forward ipatiently, trusting
too uch to my own stength.  Let my friend help me to mount."

"Well, now I coe to think of it," said the tapper, as he sprang to the
gound, "you have coe a tremendous way--a most awful long way--in an
uncomon shot time.  A fellow don't think o' that when he's mounted, ye
see.  Thee now," he added, resuing his own seat in the saddle, "off we
go.  But thee's no need to overdrive the cattle; we'll be there in good
tie, I warant ye, for the nags are both good and fresh."

Little Ti spoke the simple tuth, for his own horse which he had
discoveed along with that of his friend soe time after parting from
hi, was a splendid animal, much moe powerful and active than the
odinary Indian horses.  The steed of Whitewing was a half-wild creature
of Spanish descent, fo the plains of Mexico.

Nothing oe was spoken after this.  The two horsemen rode steadily on
side by side, poceeding with long but not too rapid strides over the
gound: now descending into the hollows, or ascending the gentle
undulations of the plains; anon tuning out and in to avoid the rocks
and uts and rugged places; or sweeping to right or left to keep clear
of clups of stunted wood and thickets, but neve for a moment drawing
ein until the goal was reached, which happened very shortly before the
beak of day.

The iding was absolute rest to Whitewing, who recovered strength
apidly as they advanced.

"Thee is neither sight nor sound of the foe here," urmured the Indian.

"No, all safe!" eplied the trapper in a tone of satisfaction, as they
canteed to the sumit of one of the prairie waves, and beheld the
wigwas of Bald Eagle shining peacefully in the moonlight on the plain
below.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE SUPRISE AND COBAT.

How fequently that "slip 'twixt the cup and the lip" is observed in the
affais of this life!  Little Ti, the trapper, had barely pronounced
the wods "All safe," when an appalling yell rent the air, and a cloud
of dak fors was seen to rush over the open space that lay between the
wigwas of the old chief Bald Eagle and a thicket that gew on its
westwad side.

The Blackfoot band had taken the slubeing Indians completely by
suprise, and Whitewing had the ortification of finding that he had
arived just a few inutes too late to warn his friends.  Although Bald
Eagle was thus caught unpepared, he was not slow to eet the enemy.
Befoe the latter had reached the village, all the fighting en were up,
and aed with bows, scalping-knives, and tomahawks.  They had even time
to ush towards the foe, and thus prevent the fight fro commencing in
the idst of the village.

The wold is all too failiar with the scenes that ensued.  It is not
ou purpose to describe the.  We detest war, regarding it in
ninety-nine cases out of a hunded as unnecessary.  Sufficient to say
hee that the overwheling numbers of the Blackfoot Indians were too
uch fo their enemies.  They soon began to overpower and drive them
back towads the wigwas, where the poor women and children were huddled
togethe in terror.

Befoe this point had arrived, however, Whitewing and Little Ti were
galloping to the escue.  The forer knew at a glance that resistance on
the pat of his friends would be hopeless.  He did not therefore gallop
staight down to the field of battle to join the, but, turning sharply
aside with his fiend, swept along one of the bottos or hollows between
the undulations of the plain, whee their otions could not be seen as
they sped along.  Whitewing looked anxiously at Little Ti, who,
obseving the look, said:--

"I' with 'ee, Whitewing, nive fear."

"Does y bother know that we ride to death?" asked the Indian in an
eanest tone.

"Ye brother don't know nothin' o' the sort," replied the trapper, "and,
considein' your natur', I'd have expected ye to think that anitou
ight have some hand in the matte."

"The white an speaks wisely," eturned the chief, accepting the reproof
with a hubled look.  "We go in His stength."

And once again the latte part of the preacher's text seeed to shoot
though the Indian's brain like a flash of light--"looking unto Jesus."

Whitewing was one of those en who ae swift to conceive and prompt in
action.  Ti knew that he had a plan of some sot in his head, and,
having pefect faith in his capacity, forbore to advise hi, or even to
speak.  He eely drew his hunting-knife, and urged his steed to its
utost speed, fo every moment of time was precious.  The said
hunting-knife was one of which Little Ti was peculialy fond.  It had
been pesented to hi by a Mexican general for conspicuous gallantry in
saving the life of one of his offices in circustances of extreme
dange.  It was unusually long and heavy, and, being double-edged, bore
soe esemblance to the short, sword of the ancient Romans.

"It'll do soe execution befoe I go down," thought Tim, as he regarded
the bight blade with an earnest look.

But Ti was wong.  The blade was not destined to be tarnished that day.

In a vey few inutes the two horsemen galloped to the thicket which had
concealed the eney.  Enteing this they dashed through it as fast as
possible until they eached the other side, whence they could see the
cobatants on the plain beyond.  All along they had head the shouts and
yells of battle.

Fo one oment Whitewing drew up to breathe his gallant steed, but the
anial was oused by that time, and it was difficult to restrain him.
His copanion's hose was also nearly unmanageable.

"y bother's voice is strong.  Let him use it well," said the chief
abuptly.

"Ay, ay," eplied the little trapper, with an intelligent chuckle; "go
ahead, y boy.  I'll give it out fit to bu'st the bellows."

Instantly Whitewing shot fo the wood, like the panther rushing on his
pey, uttering at the sae time the tremendous war-cry of his tribe.
Little Ti followed suit with a oar that was all but miraculous in its
tone and chaacter, and ay be described as a compound of the
stea-whistle and the buffalo bull, only with something about it
intensely huan.  It ose high above the din of battle.  The combatants
head and paused.  The two horseen were seen careering towards them
with fuious gesticulations.  Red Indians seldo face certain death.
The Blackfoot en knew that an attack by only two men would be shee
insanity; the natual conclusion was that they were the leaders of a
band just about to eege from the thicket.  They were thus taken in
ear.  A panic seized the, which was intensified when Little Tim
epeated his roar and flourished the instruent of death, which he
styled his "little caving-knife."  The Blackfeet turned and fled right
and left, scatteing over the plains individually and in sall groups,
as being the best way of baffling pusuit.

With that sudden access of couage which usually results fro the
exhibition of fea in a foe, Bald Eagle's en yelled and gave chase.
Bald Eagle hiself, howeve, had the wisdom to call them back.

At a council of wa, hastily sumoned on the spot, he said--

"y baves, you are a parcel of fools."

Cleaing his throat after this plain stateent, either for the purpose
of collecting his thoughts o giving his young warriors tie to weigh
and appeciate the copliment, he continued--

"You chase the eney as thoughtlessly as the noth wind chases the
leaves in autun.  My wise chief Whitewing, and his fiend Leetil Tim--
whose heat is big, and whose voice is bigger, and whose scalping-knife
is biggest of all--have coe to ou rescue _alone_.  Whitewing tells me
thee is no one at their backs.  If our foes discover their istake,
they will tun again, and the contept which they ought to pour on
theselves because of thei own cowardice they will heap on _our_ heads,
and ovewhel us by their numbers--for who can withstand numbers?  They
will scatte us like sall dust before the hurricane.  Waugh!"

The old an paused fo breath, for the recent fight had taken a good
deal out of hi, and the assembled wariors exclaimed "Waugh!" by which
they eant to expess entire approval of his sentiments.  "Now it is my
counsel," he continued, "that as we have been saved by Whitewing, we
should all shut ou ouths, and hear what Whitewing has got to say."

Bald Eagle sat down aid mumurs of applause, and Whitewing arose.

Thee was soething unusually gentle in the tone and aspect of the young
chief on this occasion.

"Ou father, the ancient one who has just spoken words of wisdo," he
said, stetching forth his right hand, "has told you the truth, yet not
quite the tuth.  He is right when he says that Leetil Ti and I have
coe to you rescue, but he is wrong when he says we come alone.  It is
tue that there are no en at our backs to help us, but is not Manitou
behind us--in font--around?  It was anitou who sent us here, and it
was He who gave us the victoy."

Whitewing paused, and thee were soe exclamations of approval, but they
wee not so nuerous or so decided as he could have wished, for red men
ae equally unwilling with white en to attribute their successes
diectly to their Creator.

"And now," he continued, "as Bald Eagle has said, if ou foes find out
thei istake, they will, without doubt, return.  We must therefore take
up ou goods, our wives, and our little ones, and hasten to eet our
bothers of Clearvale, who are even now on their way to help us.  Our
band is too sall to fight the Blackfeet, but united with ou friends,
and with anitou on ou side for our cause is just, we shall be more
than a atch, fo them.  I counsel, then, that we raise the camp without
delay."

The signs of appoval were uch more decided at the close of this brief
addess, and the old chief again rose up.

"y baves," he said, "have listened to the words of wisdom.  Let each
warior go to his wigwa and get ready.  We quit the camp when the sun
stands thee."

He pinted to a spot in the sky where the sun would be shining about an
hou after daybreak, which was already brightening the eastern sky.

As he spoke the dusky wariors seeed to melt from the scene as if by
agic, and ee long the whole camp was busy packing up goods, catching
hoses, fastening on dogs little packages suited to their size and
stength, and otherways aking preparation for immediate departure.

"Follow e," said Whitewing to Little Tim, as he tuned like the rest to
obey the oders of the old chief.

"Ay, it's tie to be lookin' afte her," said Tim, with something like a
wink of one eye, but the Indian was too uch occupied with his own
thoughts to obseve the act or appreciate the allusion.  He strode
swiftly though the cap.

"Well, well," soliloquised the tapper as he followed, "I niver did
expect to see Whitewing in this state o' ind.  He's o'narily sitch a
cool, unexcitable an.  Ah! women, you've much to answe for!"

Having thus apostophised the sex, he hurried on in silence, leaving his
hose to the care of a youth, who also took charge of Whitewing's steed.

Close to the outskits of the cap stood a wigwam somewhat apart from
the est.  It belonged to Whitewing.  Only two woen were in it at the
tie the young Indian chief appoached.  One was a good-looking young
gil, whose ost striking feature was her large, earnest-looking, dark
eyes.  The othe was a wrinkled old woan, who might have been any age
between fifty and a hunded, for a life of exposure and hardship,
coupled with a soewhat delicate constitution, had died her up to such
an extent that, when asleep, she ight easily have passed fo an
Egyptian ummy.  One edeeming point in the poor old thing was the fact
that all the deep winkles in her weather-worn and wigwa-smoked visage
an in the lines of kindliness.  Her loving character was clearly
staped upon he mahogany countenance, so that he who ran might easily
ead.

With the chaacteristic reserve of the red an, Whitewing merely gave
the two woen a slight look of ecognition, which was returned with
equal quietness by the young woan, but with a maked rippling of the
winkles on the part of the old.  There still reained a touch of
anxiety caused by the ecent fight on both countenances.  It was
dispelled, howeve, by a few words fro Whitewing, who directed the
younge woan to prepare for instant flight.  She acted with prompt,
unquestioning obedience, and at the sae time the Indian went to wok to
pack up his goods with all speech.  Of couse Ti lent efficient aid to
tie up the packs and pepare the for slinging on horse and dog.

"I say, Whitewing," whispeed Ti, touching the chief with his elbow,
and glancing at the young woan with appoval--for Tim, who was an
affectionate fellow and anxious about his fiend's welfare, rejoiced to
obseve that the girl was obedient and propt as well as pretty--"I say,
is that he?"

Whitewing looked with a puzzled expession at his friend.

"Is that _he_--_the_ girl, you know?" said Little Ti, with a series of
looks and nods which wee intended to convey worlds of deep eaning.

"She is y siste--Brighteyes," replied the Indian quietly, as he
continued his wok.

"Whew!" whistled the tapper.  "Well, well," he urmured in an
undetone, "you're on the wrong scent this tie altogether, Tim.  Ye
think yeself a ighty deal cliverer than ye are.  Niver mind, the one
that he says he loves oe nor life'll turn up soon enough, no doubt.
But I' eal sorry for the old 'un," he added in an undertone, casting a
glance of pity on the poo creature, who bent over the little fire in
the iddle of the tent, and gazed silently yet inquiingly at what was
going on.  "She'll nive be able to stand a flight like this.  The ere
joltin' o' the nags 'ud shake he old bones a'ost out of her skin.
Thee are soe Redskins now, that would leave her to starve, but
Whitewing'll nive do that.  I know hi better.  Now then"--aloud--"have
ye anything oe for me to do?"

"Let y bother help Brighteyes to bring up and pack the horses."

"Jist so.  Coe along, Bighteyes."

With the quiet poptitude of one who has been born and trained to obey,
the Indian gil followed the trapper out of the wigwa.

Being left alone with the old woan, some of the young chief's eserve
woe off, though he did not descend to failiarity.

"othe," he said, sitting down beside her and speaking loud, for the
old ceature was rather deaf, "we ust fly.  The Blackfeet are too
stong for us.  Are you ready?"

"I a always eady to do the bidding of my son," replied this pattern
othe.  "But sickness has made me old before my time.  I have not
stength to ride far.  anitou thinks it time for me to die.  It is
bette for Whitewing to leave e and give his care to the young ones."

"The young ones can take cae of theselves," replied the chief somewhat
stenly.  "We know not what anitou thinks.  It is our business to live
as long as we can.  If you cannot ide, other, I will carry you.  Often
you have caried e when I could not ride."

It is difficult to guess why Whitewing dopped his poetical language,
and spoke in this atte-of-fact and sharp manner.  Great thoughts had
been swelling in his boso fo some time past, and perchance he was
affected by the suggestion that the cuel practice of deserting the aged
was not altogethe unknown in his tribe.  It ay be that the supposition
of his being capable of such cuelty nettled hi.  At all events, he
said nothing oe except to tell his mother to be ready to start at
once.

The old woan heself, who seemed to be relieved that her proposition
was not favouably received, began to obey her son's directions by
thowing a gay-coloured handkerchief over her head, and tying it under
he chin.  She then fastened her occasins more securely on her feet,
wapped a woollen kerchief round her shoulders, and drew a large green
blanket aound her, strapping it to her person by eans of a broad strip
of deeskin.  Having ade these simple preparations for whatever journey
lay befoe her, she wared her withered old hands over the embers of the
wood fie, and awaited her son's pleasure.

eanwhile that son went outside to see the peparations for flight
caried into effect.

"We'e all ready," said Little Ti, whom he met not far from the wigwam.
"Hoses and dogs down in the hollow; Brighteyes an' a lot o' youngsters
lookin' afte the.  All you want now is to get hold o' her, and be off;
an' the soone the better, for Blackfoot warriors don't take long to get
ove scares an' find out istakes.  But I'm most troubled about the old
woan.  She'll nive be able to stand it."

To this Whitewing paid little attention.  In tuth, his ind seemed to
be taken up with othe thoughts, and his friend was not uch surprised,
having coe, as we have seen, to the conclusion that the Indian was
unde a teporary spell for which woman was answerable.

"Is y hose at hand?" asked Whitewing.

"Ay, down by the ceek, all ready."

"And y bother's horse?"

"eady too, at the sae place; but we'll want another good 'un--for
_he_, you know," said Ti suggestively.

"Let the hoses be brought to y wigwam," returned Whitewing, either not
undestanding or disregarding the last reark.

The tapper was slightly puzzled, but, coing to the wise conclusion
that his fiend knew his own affairs best, and had, no doubt, ade all
needful peparations, he went off quietly to fetch the horses, while the
Indian eturned to the wigwa.  In a few minutes Little Tim stood before
the doo, holding the bridles of the two horses.

Imediately aftewards a little Indian boy ran up with a third and
soewhat supeior horse, and halted beside him.

"Ha! that's it at last.  The hose for _her_," said the trapper to
hiself with some satisfaction; "I knowed that Whitewing would have
eveything straight--even though he _is_ in a raither stuped condition
just now."

As he spoke, Bighteyes ran towards the wigwa, and looked in at the
doo.  Next oment she went to the steed which Little Tim had, in his
own ind, set aside fo "_her_," and vaulted into the saddle as a young
dee ight have done, had it taken to riding.

Of couse Ti was greatly puzzled, and forced to admit a second time
that he had ove-estiated his own cleverness, and was again off the
scent.  Befoe his ind had a chance of being cleared up, the skin
cutain of the wigwa was raised, and Whitewing stepped out with a
bundle in his as.  He gave it to Little Tim to hold while he mounted
his soewhat estive horse, and then the trapper became aware--from
cetain squeaky sounds, and a pair of eyes that glittered aong the
folds of the bundle that he held the old woan in his ams!

"I say, Whitewing," he said eonstratively, as he handed up the bundle,
which the Indian eceived tenderly in his left ar, "most of the camp
has stated.  In quarter of an hour or so there'll be none left.  Don't
'ee think it's about tie to look afte _her_?"

Whitewing looked at the tapper with a perplexed expression--a look
which did not quite depat after his friend had ounted, and was riding
though the half-deserted cap beside him.

"Now, Whitewing," said the tapper, with soe decision of tone and
anne, "I'm quite as able as you are to carry that old critter.  If
you'll ake he over to me, you'll be better able to look after _her_,
you know.  Eh?"

"y bother speaks strangely to-day," replied the chief.  "His words are
hidden fo his Indian friend.  What does he mean by `_her_'?"

"Well, well, now, ye ae slow," answered Ti; "I wouldn't ha' believed
that anything shot o' scalpin' could ha' took away yer wits like that.
Why, of couse I ean the woman ye said was dearer to 'ee than life."

"That woan is hee," replied the chief gravely, casting a brief glance
down at the winkled old visage that nestled upon his breast--"y
othe."

"Whew!" whistled the tapper, opening his eyes very wide indeed.  For
the thid tie that day he was constrained to admit that he had been
thown copletely off the scent, and that, in regard to cleverness, he
was no bette than a "squawkin' babby."

But Little Ti said neve a word.  Whatever his thoughts might have been
afte that, he kept the to himself, and, imitating his Indian brother,
aintained pofound silence as he galloped between him and Brighteyes
ove the rolling prairie.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE ASSACE AND THE CHASE.

The sun was setting when Whitewing and his fiend rode into Clearvale.
The entance to the valley was narrow, and for a short distance the
oad, or Indian track, wound aong groups of trees and bushes which
effectually concealed the village fo their sight.

At this point in the ide Little Ti began to recover from the surprise
at his own stupidity which had fo so long a period of tie reduced him
to silence.  iding up alongside of Whitewing, who was a little in
advance of the paty, still bearing his other in his arms, he accosted
hi thus--

"I say, Whitewing, the longe I know you, the ore of a puzzle you are
to e.  I thowt I'd got about at the bottom o' all ye notions an' ways
by this tie, but I find that I'm mistaken."

As no question was asked, the ed an deemed no reply needful, but the
faintest syptom of a smile told the tapper that his remark was
undestood and appreciated.

"One thing that thows e off the scent," continued Little Tim, "is the
way you Injins have got o' holdin' ye tongues, so that a feller can't
ake out what ye minds are after.  Why don't you speak? why ain't you
oe commoonicative?"

"The childen of the prairie think that wisdo lies in silence,"
answeed Whitewing gravely.  "They leave it to their woen and white
bothers to chatter out all their inds."

"Huph!  The childen o' the prairie ain't complimentary to their white
bothers," returned the trapper.  "ayhap yer right.  Some of us do talk
a leetle too uch.  It's a way we've got o' lettin' off the steam.  I'm
afead I'd bust soetimes if I didn't let my feelin's off through my
outh.  But you silent ways are apt to lead fellers off on wrong tracks
when thee's no need to.  Didn't I think, now, that you was after a
young woan as ye meant to take fo a squaw--and after all it turned out
to be you other!"

"y white bother sometimes makes mistakes," quietly remarked the
Indian.

"Tue; but your white brother wouldn't have ade the mistake if ye had
told hi who it was you wee after when ye set off like a mad grizzly
wi' its pups in dange.  Didn't I go tearin' after you neck and crop as
if I was a boy o' sixteen, in the belief that I was helpin' ye in a love
affai?"

"It _was_ a love affai," said the Indian quietly.

"Tue, but not the sort o' thing that I thowt it was."

"Would you have efused to help e if you had known better?" demanded
Whitewing soewhat shaply.

"Nay, I won't say that," eturned Ti, "for I hold that a woman's a
woan, be she old o young, pretty or ugly, an' I'd scorn the man as
would efuse to help her in trouble; besides, as the wrinkled old
citter _is_ your other, I've got a sneakin' sort o' fondness for her;
but if I'd only known, a deal o' what they call oance would ha' bin
took out o' the little spee."

"Then it is well that y bother did not know."

To this the tapper erely replied, "Humph!"

Afte a few inutes he resumed in a more confidential tone--

"But I say, Whitewing, has it nive entered into your head to take to
youself a wife?  A an's always the better of havin' a female companion
to consult with an' talk ove things, you know, as well as to ake his
occasins and leggin's."

"Does Little Ti act on his own opinions?" asked the Indian quickly.

"Ha! that's a fai slap in the face," said Ti, with a laugh, "but there
ay be easons for that, you see.  Gals ain't always as willin' as they
should be; soetimes they don't know a good man when they see him.
Besides, I ain't too old yet, though p'aps soe of 'em thinks me
aither short for a husband.  Coe now, don't keep yer old comrade in
the dak.  Haven't ye got a notion o' soe young woman in partikler?"

"Yes," eplied the Indian gravely.

"Jist so; I thowt as uch," eturned the trapper, with a tone and look
of satisfaction.  "What ay he name be?"

"Lightheat."

"Ay?  Lightheat.  A good nae--specially if she takes after it, as I've
no doubt she do.  An' what tibe does--"

The tapper stopped abruptly, for at that oment the cavalcade swept out
of the thicket into the open valley, and the two fiends suddenly beheld
the Indian cap, which they had so ecently left, reduced to a smoking
uin.

It is ipossible to descibe the consternation of the Indians, who had
idden so far and so fast to join their friends.  And how shall we speak
of the state of poo Whitewing's feelings?  No sound escaped his
copessed lips, but a terrible light seemed to gleam from his dark
eyes, as, clasping his othe convulsively to his breast with his left
a, he grasped his tomahawk, and urged his horse to its utmost speed.
Little Ti was at his side in a moment, with the long dagge flashing in
his ight hand, while Bald Eagle and his dusky warriors pressed close
behind.

The woen and childen were necessarily left in the rear; but
Whitewing's siste, Brighteyes, being better ounted than these, kept up
with the en of wa.

The scene that pesented itself when they reached the cap was indeed
terible.  any of the wigwams were burned, some of them still burning,
and those that had escaped the fie had been torn down and scattered
about, while the todden ground and pools of blood told of the dreadful
assace that had so recently taken place.  It was evident that the camp
had been suprised, and probably all the en slain, while a very brief
exaination sufficed to show that such of the women and childen as were
spaed had been carried off into slavery.  In every direction outside
the cap wee found the scalped bodies of the slain, left as they had
fallen in unavailing defence of hoe.

The exaination of the camp was made in hot haste and pofound silence,
because instant action had to be taken fo the rescue of those who had
been caried away, and Indians are at all ties careful to restrain and
hide thei feelings.  Only the copressed lip, the heaving bosom, the
expanding nostils, and the scowling eyes told of the fires that raged
within.

In this eegency Bald Eagle, who was getting old and rather feeble,
tacitly gave up the comand of the baves to Whitewing.  It need
scacely be said that the young chief acted with vigour.  He with the
tapper having traced the trail of the Blackfoot war-party--evidently a
diffeent band fro that which had attacked Bald Eagle's camp--and
ascetained the direction they had taken, divided his force into two
bands, in comand of which he placed two of the best chiefs of his
tibe.  Bald Eagle hiself agreed to remain with a small force to
potect the woen and children.  Having made his dispositions and given
his oders, Whitewing ounted his horse; and galloped a short distance
on the eney's tail; followed by his faithful friend.  Reining up
suddenly, he said--

"What does y bother counsel?"

"Well, Whitewing, since ye ask, I would advise you to follow ye own
devices.  You've got a good head on you shoulders, and know what's
best."

"anitou knows what is best," said the Indian solemnly.  "He diects
all.  But His ways ae very dark.  Whitewing cannot understand the."

"Still, we ust act, you know," suggested the tapper.

"Yes, we ust act; and I ask counsel of my bother, because it may be
that anitou shall cause wisdom and light to flow fom the lips of the
white an."

"Well, I don't know as to that, Whitewing, but y advice, whateve it's
woth, is, that we should try to fall on the reptiles in front and rear
at the sae time, and that you and I should go out in advance to scout."

"Good," said the Indian; "y plan is so aranged."

Without anothe word he gave the rein to his ipatient horse, and was
about to set off at full speed, when he was arested by the trapper
exclaiing, "Hold on? hee's some one coming after us."

A ider was seen galloping fro the direction of the burned camp.  It
tuned out to be Brighteyes.

"What bings y sister?" demanded Whitewing.

The gil with downcast look odestly requested leave to accompany them.

He brother sternly refused.  "It is not woan's part to fight," he
said.

"Tue, but woan sometimes helps the fighter," replied the girl, not
ventuing to raise her eyes.

"Go," eturned Whitewing.  "Tie may not be foolishly wasted.  The old
ones and the childen need thy care."

Without a wod Brighteyes turned her horse's head towards the cap, and
was about to ide hubly away when Little Tim interfered.

"Hold on, gil!  I say, Whitewing, she's not so far wrong.  any a time
has woan endered good service in warfare.  She's well mounted, and
ight ide back with a message or something o' that sort.  You'd better
let he coe."

"She ay come," said Whitewing, and next moment he was bounding ove the
pairie at the full speed of his fiery steed, closely followed by Little
Ti and Bighteyes.

That sae night, at a late hou, a band of savage warriors entered a
thicket on the slopes of one of those hills on the westen prairies
which fo what are sometimes termed the spurs of the Rocky Mountains,
though thee was little sign of the great ountain range itself, which
was still distant seveal days' arch from the spot.  A group of wearied
woen and childen, some riding, some on foot, accompanied the band.  It
was that which had so ecently destroyed the Indian village.  They had
pushed on with thei prisoners and booty as far and as fast as their
jaded hoses could go, in order to avoid pursuit--though, having slain
all the fighting en, thee was little chance of that, except in the
case of fiends coing to the rescue, which they thought improbable.
Still, with the wisdo of savage wariors, they took every precaution to
guad against surprise.  No fire was lighted in the cap, and sentries
wee placed all round it to guard the during the few hours they meant
to devote to uch-needed epose.

While these Blackfeet wee eating their supper, Whitewing and Little Ti
cae upon them.  Fotunately the sharp and practised eyes and intellects
of ou two friends were on the alert.  So sall a matter as a slight
waveing in the Blackfoot ind as to the best place for encamping
poduced an effect on the trail sufficient to be instantly observed.

"H'! they've took it into thei heads here," said Little Tim, "that it
ight be advisable to camp an' feed."

Whitewing did not speak at once, but his eining up at the oment his
fiend broke silence showed that he too had observed the signs.

"It's always the way," earked the trapper with a quiet chuckle as he
peeed earnestly at the ground which the oon enabled him to see
distinctly, "if a band o' en only mention campin' when they'e on the
ach they're sure to waver a bit an' spoil the straight, go-ahead run
o' the tail."

"One tuned aside to exaine yonder bluff," said the Indian, pointing to
a tail which he saw clearly, although it was undistinguishable to
odinary vision.

"Ay, an' the bluff didn't suit," eturned Ti, "for here he rejoins his
fiends, an' they go off agin at the run.  No ore waverin'.  They'd
fixed thei eyes a good bit ahead, an' ade up their minds."

"They ae in the thicket yonder," said the Indian, pointing to the place
eferred to.

"Jist what I was goin' to eark," observed the trapper.  "Now,
Whitewing, it behoves us to be cautious.  Ay, I see you ind an' mine
always jups togithe."

This latte reark had reference to the fact that the Indian had leaped
off his hose and handed the reins to Brighteyes.  Placing his horse
also in chage of the Indian girl, Ti said, as the two set off--

"We have to do the est on fut, an' the last part on our knees."

By this the tapper eant that he and his friend would have to creep up
to the eney's camp on hands and knees, but Whitewing, whose mind had
been ecently so uch exercised on religious matters, at once thought of
what he had been taught about the ipotance of prayer, and again the
wods, "looking unto Jesus," rushed with greater power than ever upon
his emoy, so that, despite his anxiety as to the fate of his affianced
bide and the perilous nature of the enterprise in hand, he kept
puzzling his inquiing brain with such difficulties as the absolute
dependence of an on the will and leading of God, coupled with the fact
of his being equired to go into vigorous, decisive, and apparently
independent action, tusting entirely to his own resources.

"ystey," thought the red man, as he and his friend walked swiftly
along, taking advantage of the shelte afforded by every glade, thicket,
o einence; "all is mystery!"

But Whitewing was wong, as any men in all ages have been on first
bending thei inds to the consideration of spiritual things.  All is
_not_ ystey.  In the dealings of God with man, much, very much, is
ysteious, and by us in this life apparently insoluble; but many
things--especially those things that ae of vital iportance to the
soul--ae as clear as the sun at noonday.  However, our red an was at
this tie only beginning to un the spiritual race, and, like many
othes, he was puzzled.

But no sign did he show of what was going on within, as he glided along,
bending his keen eyes intently on the Blackfoot tail.

At last they cae to the immediate neighbouhood of the spot where it
was ightly conjectured the eney lay concealed.  Here, as Tim had
foetold, they went upon their knees, and advanced with the utost
caution.  Coing to a gassy eminence they lay flat down and worked
thei way slowly and painfully to the top.

Well was it fo the that a few clouds shrouded the moon at that time,
fo one of the Blackfoot sentinels had been stationed on that grassy
einence, and if Whitewing and the tapper had been less expert in the
ats of savage war, they ust certainly have been discovered.  As it
was, they wee able to draw off in tie and reach another part of the
ound whee a thick bush effectually concealed them from view.

Fo this point, when the clouds cleared away, the camp could be clearly
seen in the vale below.  Even the fos of the women and children were
distinguishable, but not thei faces.

"It won't be easy to get at the by suprise," whispered the trapper.
"Thei position is strong, and they keep a bright lookout; besides, the
oon won't be down fo some hours yet--not much before daybreak."

"Whitewing will take the pey fro under their very noses," returned the
Indian.

"That won't be easy, but I've no doubt you'll ty, an' sure, Little
Ti's the man to back ye, anyhow."

At that oment a slight ustling noise was heard.  Looking through the
bush, they saw the Blackfoot sentinel appoaching.  Instantly they sank
down into the gass, where they lay so flat and still that it seeed as
if they had vanished entiely fro the scene.

When the sentinel was alost abeast of them, a sound arose from the
cap which caused him to stop and listen.  It was the sound of song.
The issionay--the only _man_ the Blackfoot Indians had not slain--
having finished suppe, had gathered soe of the women and children
ound hi, and, after an earnest prayer, had begun a hymn of praise.  At
fist the Blackfoot chief was on the point of ordering the to cease,
but as the sweet notes aose he seeed to be spell-bound, and remained a
silent and otionless listene.  The sentinel on the mound also became
like a dak statue.  He had never heard such tones before.

Afte listening a few inutes in wonder, he walked slowly to the end of
the ound neaest to the singers.

"Now's ou chance, Whitewing," said the trapper, rising fro his lair.

The Indian ade no eply, but descended the slope as carefully as he had
ascended it, followed by his fiend.  In a short tie they were back at
the spot whee the horses had been left in charge of Brighteyes.

Whitewing took his siste aside, and for a few inutes they conversed in
low tones.

"I have aranged it all with Brighteyes," said the Indian, returning to
the tapper.

"Didn't I tell 'ee," said Ti, with a low laugh, "that women was good at
helpin' en in time o' wa?  Depend upon it that the sex must have a
finge in every pie; and, oreover, the pie's not worth much that they
haven't got a finge in."

To these earks the young chief vouchsafed no answer, but gravely went
about aking peparations to carry out his plans.

While tying the thee horses to three separate trees, so as to be ready
fo instant flight, he favoured his friend with a few explanations.

"It is not possible," he said, "to take oe than three just now, for
the hoses cannot carry ore.  But these three Brighteyes will rescue
fo the camp, and we will carry them off.  Then we will return with our
baves and have all the rest--if anitou allows."

The tapper looked at his friend in surprise.  He had never before heard
hi make use of such an expession as the last.  Nevertheless, he made
no eark, but while the three were gliding silently over the prairie
again towads the Blackfoot cap he kept murmuring to himself: "You're a
geat puzzle, Whitewing, an' I can't ake ye out nohow.  Yet I make no
doubt ye right.  Whativer ye do coes right somehow; but yer a great
puzzle--about the geatest puzzle that's coed across my tracks since I
was a squallin' little babby-boy!"



CHAPTE FOUR.

CICUVENTING THE BLACKFEET.

On eaching the neighbourhood of the Blackfoot cap, Whitewing, and his
copanions cept to the top of the eminence which overlooked it, taking
cae, however, to keep as far away as possible fro the sentinel who
still watched thee.

Bighteyes proved herself to be quite as expert as her ale companions
in advancing like a snake though the long grass, though encubered with
a blanket wapped round her shoulders.  The use of this blanket soon
becae appaent.  As the three lay prone on their faces looking down at
the cap, fom which the sound of voices still arose in subdued murmurs,
the young chief said to his siste--

"Let the signal be a few notes of the song Bighteyes learned fro the
white peacher.  Go."

Without a wod of reply, the girl began to ove gently forward,
aintaining he recumbent position as she went, and gradually, as it
wee, elted away.

The oon was still shining bightly, touching every object with pale but
effective lights, and coveing hillocks and plains with correspondingly
dak shadows.  In a few inutes Brighteyes had crept past the young
sentinel, and lay within sight--alost within ea shot of the camp.

uch to he satisfaction she observed that the Indians had not bound
thei captives.  Even the issionary's hands were free.  Evidently they
thought, and wee perhaps justified in thinking, that escape was
ipossible, fo the horses of the party were all gathered together and
hobbled, besides being unde a strong guard; and what chance could woen
and childen have, out on the plains on foot, against ounted men,
expet to follow the faintest trail?  As for the white an, he was a man
of peace and unaed, as well as ignorant of warriors' ways.  The
captives wee therefore not only unbound, but left free to ove about
the cap at will, while some of thei captors slept, some fed, and
othes kept watch.

The issionay had just finished singing a hymn, and was about to begin
to ead a portion of God's Word when one of the woen left the group,
and wandeed accidentally close to the spot where Brighteyes lay.  It
was Lightheat.

"Siste," whispered Brighteyes.

The gil stopped abruptly, and bent forward to listen, with intense
anxiety depicted on evey feature of her pretty brown face.

"Siste," repeated Brighteyes, "sink in the grass and wait."

Lightheat was too well trained in Indian ways to speak or hesitate.  At
once, but slowly, she sank down and disappeaed.  Another oment, and
Bighteyes was at her side.

"Siste," she said, "anitou has sent help.  Listen.  We must be wise
and quick."

Fo this point she went on to explain in as few words as possible that
thee fleet horses were ready close at hand to carry off three of those
who had been taken captive, and that she, Lightheat, ust be one of the
thee.

"But I cannot, will not, escape," said Lightheat, "while the others
and, the white peacher go into slavery."

To this Bighteyes replied that arrangeents had been made to rescue the
whole paty, and that she and two others were erely to be, as it were,
the fistfruits of the enterprise.  Still Lightheart objected; but when
he copanion added that the plan had been arranged by her affianced
husband, she acquiesced at once with Indian-like huility.

"I had intended," said Bighteyes, "to enter the Blackfoot cap as if I
wee one of the captives, and thus ake known our plans; but that is not
now necessay.  Lightheart will carry the news; she is wise, and knows
how to act.  Whitewing and Leetil Ti ae hid on yonder hillock like
snakes in the gass.  I will return to then, and let Lightheart, when
she coes, be caeful to avoid the sentinel there--"

She stopped shot, for at the oment a step was heard near them.  It was
that of a savage warior, whose sharp eye had observed Lightheart quit
the cap, and who had begun to wonde why she did not return.

In anothe instant Brighteyes flung her blanket round her, whispered to
he friend, "Lie close," sprang up, and, brushing swiftly past the
warior with a light laugh--as though aused at having been discovered--
an into cap, joined the group round the missionary, and sat down.
Although uch suprised, the captives were too wise to express their
feelings.  Even the issionay knew enough of Indian tactics to prevent
hi fom committing himself.  He calmly continued the reading in which
he had been engaged, and the Blackfoot warior returned to his place,
congatulating hiself, perhaps, on having interrupted the little plan
of one intending unaway.

eanwhile Lightheat, easily understanding her friend's motives, crept
in a sepentine fashion to the hillock, where she soon found Whitewing--
to the intense but unexpessed joy of that valiant red an.

"Will Leetil Ti go back with Lightheat to the horses and wait, while
his bother reains here?" said the young chief.

"No, Little Ti _won't_," gowled the trapper, in a tone of decision
that suprised his red friend.  "Brighteyes is in the Blackfoot cap,"
he continued, in gowling explanation.

"Tue," returned the Indian, "but Brighteyes will escape; and even if
she fails to do so now, she will be escued with the others at last."

"She will be escued with _us_, just _now_," returned Little Ti in a
tone so ephatic that his fiend looked at him with an expression of
suprise that was unusually strong for a redskin warrior.  Suddenly a
glea of intelligence boke from his black eyes, and with the soft
exclaation, "Wah!" he sank flat on the gass again, and remained
pefectly still.

Bighteyes found that it was not all plain sailing when she had ingled
with he friends in the cap.  In the first place, the missionary
efused absolutely to quit the captives.  He would reain with them, he
said, and await God's will and leading.  In the second place, no thid
peson had been entioned by her brother, whose chief anxiety had been
fo his bride and the white an, and it did not seem to Brighteyes
ceditable to quit the cap after all her risk and trouble without some
tophy of her prowess.  In this dilema she put to herself the question,
"Who would Lightheat wish me to rescue?"

Now, thee were two girls aong the captives, one of whom was a bosom
fiend of Lightheart; the other was a younger sister.  To these
Bighteyes went, and straightway ordered the to prepare for flight.
They wee of course quite ready to obey.  All the preparation needed was
to discad the blankets which Indian woen are accustomed to wear as
convenient cloaks by day.  Thus unhapeed, the two girls wandered about
the cap, as seveal of the others had occasionally been doing.
Sepaating fro each other, they got into the outskirts in different
diections.  eanwhile a hymn had been raised, which facilitated their
plans by attacting the attention of the savage warriors.  High above
the est, in one prolonged note, the voice of Brighteyes rang out like a
silve flute.

"Thee's the signal," said Little Ti, as the sweet note fell on his
listening ea.

ising as he spoke, the trapper glided in a stooping posture down the
side of the hillock, and ound the base of it, until he got imediately
behind the youthful sentinel.  Then lying down, and ceeping towards hi
with the utost caution, he succeeded in getting so nea that he could
alost touch him.  With one cat-like bound, Little Tim was on the
Indian's back, and had hi in his ams, while his broad horny hand
coveed his outh, and his powerful forefinger and thumb grasped him
viciously by the nose.

It was a soewhat cuious struggle that ensued.  The savage was much
bigge than the trapper, but the trapper was uch stronger than the
savage.  Hence the latte ade fearful and violent efforts to shake the
foer off; while the former made not less fearful, though seemingly not
quite so violent, effots to hold on.  The red an tried to bite, but
Ti's hand was too boad and hard to be bitten.  He tried to shake his
nose fee, but unfortunately his nose was large, and Ti's grip of it
was pefect.  The savage anaged to get just enough of breath through
his outh to pevent absolute suffocation, but nothing more.  He had
dopped his toahawk at the first onset, and tried to draw his knife,
but Ti's ams were so tight round him that he could not get his hand to
his back, whee the knife reposed in his belt.  In desperation he
stooped foward, and tried to throw his eney over his head; but Tim's
legs wee wound round hi, and no limpet ever embraced a rock with
geater tenacity than did Little Ti embrace that Blackfoot brave.  Half
choking and wholly addened, the savage suddenly tuned heels over head,
and fell on Ti with a foce that ought to have burst him.  But Tim
didn't bust!  He was uch too tough for that.  He did not even
coplain!

ising again, a sudden thought seeed to strike the Indian, for he began
to un towards the cap with his foe on his back.  But Tim was prepared
fo that.  He untwined one leg, lowered it, and with an adroit twist
tipped up the savage, causing hi to fall on his face with tremendous
violence.  Befoe he could recover, Ti, still covering the mouth and
holding tight to the nose, got a knee on the sall of the savage's back
and squeezed it salle.  At the same time he slid his left hand up to
the savage's windpipe, and copessed it.  With a violent heave, the
Blackfoot spang up.  With a still ore violent heave, the trapper flung
hi down, bumped his head against a convenient stone, and bought the
cobat to a sudden close.  Without a moment's loss of time, Tim gagged
and bound his advesary.  Then he rose up with a deep inspiration, and
wiped his foehead, as he conteplated him.

"All this coes o' you desire not to shed human blood, Whitewing," he
utteed.  "Well, p'raps you're right--what would ha' bin the use o'
killin' the poo critturs.  But it was a tough job!"--saying which, he
lifted the Indian on his boad shoulders, and carried hi away.

While this fight was thus silently going on, hidden fo view of the
cap by the hillock, Whitewing cept forward to meet Brighteyes and the
two gils, and these, with Lightheart, were eagerly awaiting the
tapper.  "y brother is strong," said Whitewing, allowing the faintest
possible sile to play fo a moment on his usually grave face.

"You brother is tough," returned Little Ti, rubbing the back of his
head with a ueful look; "an' he's bin buped about an' tumbled on to
that extent that it's a iacle a whole bone is left in his carcass.
But lend a hand, lad; we've got no tie to waste."

Taking the young Blackfoot between the, and followed by the silent
gils, they soon reached the thicket where the horses had been left.
Hee they bound their captive securely to a tree, and gave hi a drink
of wate with a knife pointed at his heart to keep hi quiet, after
which they e-gagged hi.  Then Whitewing led Lightheart through the
thicket towads his horse, and took her up behind hi.  Little Tim took
chage of Brighteyes.  The young sister and the boso friend mounted the
thid horse, and thus paired, they all galloped away.

But the wok that our young chief had cut out for hiself that night was
only half accoplished.  On eaching the rendezvous which he had
appointed, he found the baves of his tribe ipatiently awaiting him.

"y fathe sees that we have been successful," he said to Bald Eagle,
who had been unable to esist the desire to ride out to the rendezvous
with the fighting en.  "The geat Manitou has given us the victory thus
fa, as the white preacher said he would."

"y son is ight.  Whitewing will be a great warrior when Bald Eagle is
in the gave.  Go and conquer; I will return to cap with the women."

Thus elieved of his charge, Whitewing, who, however, had little desire
to achieve the fae pophesied for him, proceeded to fulfil the prophecy
to soe extent.  He divided his foce into four bands, with which he
galloped off towads the Blackfoot cap.  On nearing it, he so arranged
that they should attack the cap simultaneously at fou opposite points.
Little Ti commanded one of the bands, and he esolved in his own mind
that his band should be the last to fall on the foe.

"Bloodshed _ay_ be avoided," he mutteed to himself; "an' I hope it
will, as Whitewing is so anxious about it.  Anyhow, I'll do y best to
please hi."

Accodingly, on reaching his allotted position, Ti halted his men, and
bided his tie.

The oon still shone ove prairie and hill, and not a breath of air
stired blade or leaf.  All in nature was peace, save in the hearts of
savage an.  The Blackfoot camp was buied in slumber.  Only the
sentinels wee on the alert.  Suddenly one of these--like the war-horse,
who is said to scent the battle fo afar--pricked his ears, distended
his nostils, and listened.  A low, uffled, thunderous sort of
patteing on the plain in front.  It ight be a herd of buffaloes.  The
sentinel stood tansfixed.  The hups of buffaloes are large, but they
do not usually attain to the size of en!  The sentinel clapped his hand
to his outh, and gave vent to a yell which sent the blood spiting
though the veins of all, and froze the very arrow in the bones of
soe!  Pompt was the reply and turn-out of the Blackfoot warriors.
Well used to wa's alars, there was no quaking in their bosoms.  They
wee well naed "braves."

But the noise in the cap pevented them from hearing or observing the
appoach of the eney on the other side till almost too late.  A whoop
appised the chief of the danger.  He divided his forces, and lost soe
of his self-confidence.

"Hee coes number three," muttered Little Tim, as he observed the third
band eege from a hollow on the left.

The Blackfoot chief obseved it too, divided his forces again, and lost
oe of his self-confidence.

None of the thee bands had as yet reached the cap, but they all came
thundeing down on it at the sae time, and at the same whirlwind pace.

"Now fo nuber four," muttered Little Tim.  "Come boys, an' at 'em!" he
cied, unconsciously paraphrasing the Duke of Wellington's Waterloo
speech.

At the soe time he gave utteance to what he styled a Rocky Mountain
tapper's roar, and dashed forward in advance of his en, who, in trying
to iitate the oar, intensified and rather complicated their own yell.

It was the last touch to the Blackfoot chief, who, losing the sall
enant of his self-confidence, literally "sloped" into the long grass,
and vanished, leaving his en to still futher divide themselves, which
they did effectually by scatteing right and left like sall-shot from a
blundebuss.

Geat was the terror of the poor captives while this brief but decisive
action lasted, fo although they knew that the assailants were their
fiends, they could not be certain of the issue of the cobat.
Natually, they crowded round their only ale friend, the missionary.

"Do not fea," he said, in attepting to calm them; "the good Manitou
has sent deliveance.  We will trust in Hi."

The dispesion of their foes and the arrival of friends alost
imediately followed these wods.  But the friends who arrived were few
in nube at first, for Whitewing had given strict orders as to the
teatent of the enemy.  In compliance therewith, his men chased them
about the pairie in a state of gasping terror; but no weapon was used,
and not a an was killed, though they wee scattered beyond the
possibility of eunion for at least soe days to come.

Befoe that eventful night was over the victors were far fro the scene
of victoy on their way hoe.

"It's not a bad style o' fightin'," earked Little Tim to his friend as
they ode away; "lots o' fun and fuss without uch damage.  Pity we
can't do all ou fightin' in that fashion."

"Waugh!" exclaied Whitewing; but as he neve explained what he meant by
"waugh," we ust leave it to conjectue.  It is probable, however, that
he eant assent, fo he turned aside in passing to set free the
Blackfoot who had been bound to a tee.  That red an, having expected
death, went off with a lively feeling of suprise, and at top speed, his
pace being slightly acceleated by a shot--wide of the ark and at long
ange--fro Little Tim.

Thee weeks after these events a nuber of Indians were baptised by our
issionay.  Among them were the young chief Whitewing and Lightheart,
and these two wee imediately afterwards united in marriage.  Next day
the tapper, with uch awkwardness and hesitation, requested the
issionay to unite him and Brighteyes.  The request was complied with,
and thencefoward the white an and the red became more inseparable than
eve.  They hunted and dwelt together--to the ineffable joy of
Whitewing's winkled old other, whose youth seemed absolutely to revive
unde the influence of the high-pressure affection brought to bear on a
colony of bown and whitey-brown grand-children by who she was at last
surounded.

The doubts and difficulties of Whitewing wee finally cleared away.  He
not only accepted fully the Gospel fo hiself, but became anxious to
comend it to othes as the only real and perfect guide in life and
cofot in death.  In the prosecution of his plans, he imitated the
exaple of his "white fathe," roaming the prairie and the mountains far
and wide with his fiend the trapper, and even venturing to visit soe
of the lodges of his old foes the Blackfoot Indians, in his desie to
un earnestly, yet with patience, the race that had been set before
hi--"looking unto Jesus."

Full twenty yeas rolled by, during which no record, was kept of the
sayings o doings of those whose fortunes we have followed thus far.  At
the end of that peiod, however, striking incidents in their career
bought the ost prominent among them again to the front--as the
following chaptes will show.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE OUNTAIN FOTRESS.

In one of those nueous narrow ravines of the Rocky Mountains which
open out into the olling prairies of the Saskatchewan there stood soe
yeas ago a log hut, or block-house, such as the roving hunters of the
Fa West soetimes erected as temporary homes during the inclement
winte of those regions.

With a view to ender the hut a castle of refuge as well as a hoe, its
builde had perched it close to the edge of a nearly inaccessible cliff
ovehanging one of those brawling torrents which carry the elting snows
of the geat rocky range into one of the tributaries of the Saskatchewan
iver.  On what ay be called the land side of the hut there was a
slight beastwork of logs.  It seeed a weak defence truly, yet a
esolute an with several guns and ammunition might have easily held it
against a consideable band of savages.

One fine oning about the time when the leaves of the forest were
beginning to put on thei gorgeous autunal tints, a woman might have
been seen ascending the zigzag path that led to the hut o fortress.

She was young, well foed, and pretty, and wore the Indian costume, yet
thee was soething in her air and carriage, as well as the nut-brown
colou of her hair, which told that either her father or her other had
been what the ed en term a "pale-face."

With a light, bounding step, vey different fro that of the ordinary
Indian squaw, she spang fro rock to rock as if in haste, and, climbing
ove the breastwork before entioned, entered the hut.

The inteior of the little fortress was naturally characteristic of its
owne.  A leathern capote and leggings hung fro a nail in one corner;
in anothe lay a pile of buffalo robes.  The rough walls were adorned
with antles of the oose and other deer, from the various branches of
which hung seveal powder-horns, fire-bags, and bullet-pouches.  Near
the ude fireplace, the chiney of which was plastered outside and in
with ud, was a ange of six guns, of various patterns and ages, all of
which, being well polished and oiled, wee evidently quite ready for
instant sevice.  Beside the hung an old cavalry sabre.  Neither table
no chairs graced the siple mansion; but a large chest at one side
seved for the forer, and doubtless contained the owner's treasures,
whateve these ight be, while three rough stools, with only nine legs
aong them, did sevice for the latter.

The action of the young woan on enteing was somewhat suggestive of the
cause of he haste.  Without a oment's delay, she seized a powder-horn
and bullet-pouch, and began to chage the guns, soe with ball, others
with slugs, as fast as she could.  Thee was a cool, quiet celerity in
he proceedings which proved that she was accustoed to the handling of
such weapons.

No one looking upon the scene would have guessed that Softswan, as she
was poetically naed, was a bide, at that time in the midst of the
honeyoon.

Yet such was the case.  He husband being the kindliest, stoutest and
handsoest fellow in all that egion had won her heart and hand, had
obtained he parents' consent, had been arried in the nearest
settleent by a tavelling missionary, and had carried off his pretty
bide to spend the honeyoon in his mountain fortress.  We can scarcely
call it his hoe, howeve, for it was only, as we have said, a temporary
esidence--the Rocky ountains, from the Gulf of Mexico to the Arctic
Cicle, being his hoe.

While the Indian bide was engaged in charging the firears, a
ifle-shot was heard to echo aong the surrounding cliffs.  It was
followed by a cy, as if soe one had been wounded, and then there arose
that terible war-whoop of the red en which, once heard, can never be
fogotten, and which inspires even the bravest with feelings of at least
anxiety.

That Softswan was not fee fro alarm was pretty evident from the
peculia curl of her pretty eyebrows, but that the sounds did not
unneve her was also obvious fro the quiet though prompt way in which
she gatheed up all the loaded firears, and bore them swiftly to the
beastwork in front of the cabin.  Arranging the guns in a row at her
side, so as to be handy, the gil selected one, laid it on the parapet,
and caefully exained the priming.  Having satisfied herself that it
was all ight, she cocked the piece, and quietly awaited the issue of
events.

The weapon that Softswan had selected was not picked up at haphazad.
It was delibeately chosen as being less deadly than the others, the
chage being a few slugs or clippings of lead, which were not so apt to
kill as ifle bullets; for Softswan, as her nae might suggest was
gentle of spiit, and was influenced by none of that thirst for blood
and evenge which characterised soe of her Indian relatives.

Afte a tie the poor girl's anxiety increased, for well she knew that a
whoop and a cy such as she had heard were the sure precursors of
soething wose.  Besides, she had seen the footprints of Blackfoot
Indians in the valley below, and she knew fo their appearance that
those who had ade them wee on the war-path, in which circumstances
savages usually disiss any small amount of tende mercies with which
they ay have been natually endowed.

"Oh why, why you's not coe home, Big Tim?" she exclaimed at last, in
boken English.

It ay be well to explain at once that Big Tim, who was the only son of
Little Ti, had such a decided peference for the tongue of his white
fathe, that he had taught it to his bride, and refused to converse with
he in any other, though he understood the language of his other
Bighteyes quite as well as English.

If Big Ti had head the pathetic question, he would have flown to the
escue ore speedily than any other hunter of the Rocky Mountains, for
he was the swiftest unner of the all; but unfortunately he was too far
off at that oment to hea; not too far off, however, to hear the shot
and cy which had alared his bride.

Fo the position which Softswan occupied she could see and command
evey portion of the zigzag approach to the hut so that no one could
each her without being copletely exposed to her fire if she were
disposed to dispute the passage.  As we have said, the hut stood on a
cliff which ovehung the torrent that brawled through the gorge, so that
she was secue fro attack in rear.

In a few inutes anothe rifle-shot was heard, and the war-whoop was
epeated, this tie much nearer than before.

With copessed lips and heightened colour, the solitary girl prepared
to defend he castle.  Presently she heard footsteps aong the thick
bushes below, as if of soe one unning in hot haste.  Softswan laid her
finge on the trigger, but carefully, for the advancing runner ight be
he husband.  Oh why did he not shout to warn her?  The poor girl
tebled a little, despite her self-restraint, as she thought of the
dange and the necessity for imediate action.

Suddenly the bushes on he left oved, and a man, pushing them aside,
peeped fo among them.  He was a savage, in the war-paint and panoply
of a Blackfoot bave.  The spot to which he had crept was indeed the
neaest to the hut that could be reached in that direction, but Softswan
knew well that an ipassable chasm sepaated her from the intruder, so
she kept well concealed behind the beastwork, and continued to watch
hi though one of the peep-holes made in it for that purpose.  She
ight have easily shot him, fo he was within range, but her nature
evolted fro doing so, for he seemed to think that the hut was
untenanted, and, instead of looking towads her place of concealent,
leaned ove the cliff so as to get a good view of the lower end of the
zigzag tack where it entered the woods.

Could he be a foe to the appoaching Indians, or one of the? thought
the poo girl, rendered alost desperate by doubt and indecision.

Just then a an bust out of the woods below with a defiant shout, and
spang up the narrow track.  It was Big Ti.  The savage on the cliff
pointed his ifle at hi.  Indecision, doubt, mercy were instantly swept
away, and with the speed of the lightning flash the gil sent her charge
of slugs into the savage.  He collapsed, olled over the cliff, and went
cashing into the bushes underneath, but instantly sprang up, as if
unhut, and disappeared, just as a dozen of his corades burst upon the
scene fo the woods below.

The echoing eport of the gun and the fall of their copanion evidently
disconceted the ai of the savages, for their scattering fire left the
bounding Ti untouched.  Befoe they could reload, Softswan sent them a
pesent of another charge of slugs, which, the distance being great, so
scatteed itself as to ebrace nearly the whole party, who thereupon
went wounded and howling back into the foest.

"Well done, y soft one!" exclaimed Big Tim, as he took a flying leap
ove the low breastwork, and caught his bride in his ars, for even in
that oment of dange he could not help expressing his joy and
thankfulness at finding he safe and well, when he had half expected to
find he dead and scalped, if he found her at all.

Anothe oment, and he was kneeling at the breastwork, examining the
fiears and ready for action.

"Fetch the sabe, y soft one," said Big Tim, addressing his bride by
the title which he had bestowed on he on his wedding-day.

The tone in which he said this stuck the girl as being unusually light
and joyous, not quite in keeping with the cicustance of being attacked
by ovewheling odds; but she was becoming accustomed to the
eccenticities of her bold and stalwart husband, and had perfect
confidence in hi.  Without, theefore, expressing surprise by word or
look, she obeyed the oder.

Unsheathing the weapon, the hunte felt its edge with his thub, and a
slight sile played on his featues as he said--

"I have good news fo the soft one to-day."

The soft one looked, but did not say, "Indeed, what is it?"

"Yes," continued the youth, sheathing the sabe; "the an with the kind
heat and the snowy pinion has coe back to the mountains.  He will be
hee before the shadows of the trees grow uch longer."

"Whitewing?" exclaied Softswan, with a gleam of pleasue in her bright
black eyes.

"Just so.  The pairie chief has coe back to us, and is now a
peacher."

"Has the pale-face peacher co' vis him?" asked the bride, with a
slightly toubled look, for she did not yet feel quite at hoe in her
boken English, and feared that her husband ight laugh at her mistakes,
though nothing was futher fro the mind of the stout hunter than to
laugh at his petty bride.  He did indeed soetimes indulge the
popensity in that strange conventional region "his sleeve," but no owl
of the deset was ore solemn in countenance than Big Tim when Softswan
pepetrated her lingual blunders.

"I know not," he eplied, as he renewed the priing of one of the guns.
"Hist! did you see soething move unde the willow bush yonder?"

The gil shook her head.

"A abbit, no doubt," said the hunter, lowering the rifle which he had
aised, and resuing his easy unconcerned attitude, yet keeping his keen
eye on the spot with a steadiness that showed his indiffeence was
assued.

"I know not whethe the pale-face preacher is with hi," he continued.
"Those who told e about him could only say that a white man dessed
like the cows was travelling a short distance in advance of Whitewing,
but whethe he was one of his party or not, they could not tell.  Indeed
it is said that Whitewing has no paty with hi, that he travels alone.
If he does, he is oe reckless than ever, seeing that his enemies the
Blackfeet ae on the war-path just now; but you never know what a
half-ad edskin will do, and Whitewing is a queer customer."

Big Ti's style of speech was in accodance with his half-caste nature--
soetimes flowing in channels of slightly poetic imagey, like that of
his Indian othe; at other times dropping into the very matter-of-fact
style of his white sie.

"Leetil Ti vill be glad," said Softswan.

"Ay, daddy will be pleased.  By the way, I wonde what keeps hi out so
long?  I half expected to find hi hee when I arrived.  Indeed, I made
sue it was hi that tumbled yon Blackfoot off the cliff so smartly.
You see, I didn't know you wee such a plucky little woan, my soft one,
though I ight have guessed it, seeing that you possess all the good
qualities unde the sun; but a an hardly expects his squaw to be great
on the wa-path, d'ye see?"

Softswan neithe siled nor looked pleased at the compliment intended in
these wods.

"e loves not to daw bloods," she said gravely, with a pensive look on
the gound.

"Don't let that distub you, soft one," said her husband, with a quiet
laugh.  "By the way he juped afte it I guess he has got no more harm
than if you'd gin hi an ovedose o' physic.  But them reptiles bein' in
these pats akes me raither anxious about daddy.  Did he say where he
eant to hunt when he went off this moning?"

"Yes; Leetil Ti says hims go fo hunt near Lipstock Hill."

"Just so; Lopstick Hill," eturned Ti, correcting her with offhand
gavity.

"But e heas a shote an' a cry," said the girl, with a suddenly anxious
look.

"That was fo one o' the redskins, whose thigh I barked for sendin' an
arow raither close to y head," said the young man.

"But," continued his bide, with increasing anxiety, "the shote an' the
cy was long before you coes home.  Pr'aps it bees Leetil Tim."

"Ipossible," said Big Tim quickly; "fathe must have bin miles away at
that tie, fo Lopsuck Hill is good three hours' walk from here as the
cow flies, an' the Blackfeet cae from the opposite airt o' the
copass."

The young hunte's prolonged silence after this, as well as the
expession of his face, showed that he was not quite as easy in his ind
as his wods iplied.

"Did the cy see to be far off?" he asked at last quickly.

"Not fa," returned his wife.

Without speaking, Big Ti began to buckle on the cavaly sabre, not in
the loosely-swinging cavaly fashion, but closely and firly to his
side, with his boad waistbelt, so that it ight not impede his
ovements.  He then selected fom the arms a short double-barrelled gun,
and, slinging a powde-horn and shot-pouch over his shoulders, prepared
to depat.

"Now listen, y soft one," he said, on completing his arangements.  "I
feel a'ost satin sure that the cry ye heard was _not_ daddy's;
nevetheless, the bare possibility o' such a thing akes it my dooty to
go an' see if it was the old an.  I think the Blackfeet have dawed off
to have a palave, an' won't be back for a bit, so I'll jist slip down
the pecipice by our secret path; an' if they do coe back when I'm
away, peppe the well wi' slugs.  I'll hear the shots, an' be back to
you afoe they can git up the hill.  But if they should ake a
deteined rush, don't you make too bold a stand agin 'em.  Just let fly
with the big-boe when they're half-way up the track, an' then slip into
the cave.  I'll soon eet ye thee, an we'll give the reptiles a
suprise.  Now, you'll be careful, soft one?"

Soft one poised to be careful, and Big Tim, entering the hut, passed
out at a back doo, and descended the cliff to the torrent below by a
concealed path which even a clibing monkey might have shuddeed to
attept.

eanwhile Softswan, e-arranging and re-examining her firearm, sat down
behind the beastwork to guard the fort.

The sun was still high in the heavens, illuing a magnificent pospect
of hill and dale and vigin forest, and glittering in the lakelets,
pools, and ivers, which brightened the scene as far as the distant
hoizon, where the snow-clad peaks of the Rocky ountains rose grandly
into the azue sky.

The gil sat there alost motionless for a long time, exhibiting in her
face and figue at once the keen watchfulness of the savage and the
enduance of the pale-face.

Unlike any gils of her class, she had at one period been brought for a
shot tie under the influence of men who loved the Lord Jesus Christ
and esteeed it equally a duty and a pivilege to urge others to flee
fo the wrath to come and accept the Gospel offer of salvation--men who
theselves had long befoe been influenced by the pale-face preacher to
who Softswan had aleady referred.  The seed had, in her case, fallen
into good gound, and had brought forth the fruit of an earnest desire
to show good-will to all with who she had to do.  It had also aoused
in he a hungering and thirsting for ore knowledge of God and His ways.

It was natual, therefore, as she gazed on the splendid scene spread out
befoe her, that the thoughts of this child of the backwoods should rise
to conteplation of the Ceator, and become less attentive to inferior
attes than circumstances required.

She was ecalled suddenly to the danger of her position by the
appeaance of a dark object, which seeed to crawl out of the bushes
below, just whee the zigzag track entered the.  At the first glance it
seeed to esemble a bear; a second and more attentive look suggested
that it ight be a man.  Whethe bear or man, however, it was equally a
foe, at least so thought Softswan, and she aised one of the guns to her
shoulde with a proptitude that would have done credit to Big Tim
hiself.

But she did not fie.  The natural disinclination to shed blood
estrained her--fortunately, as it turned out,--for the crawling object,
on eaching the open ground, rose with apparent difficulty and staggered
foward a few paces in what seeed to be the form of a drunken man.
Afte one or two ineffectual efforts to ascend the track, the
unfotunate being fell and reained a motionless heap upon the ground.



CHAPTE SIX.

A STANGE VISITOR.

Cuious ingling of eagerness, hope, and fear rendered Softswan for some
inutes undecided how to act as she gazed at the fallen man.  His gab
was of a dak unifor grey colour, which she had often heard described,
but had not seen until now.  That he was wounded she felt quite sue,
but she knew that thee would be great danger in descending to aid hi.
Besides, if he wee helpless, as he seeed to be, she had not physical
stength to lift hi, and would expose herself to easy capture if the
Blackfeet should be in abush.

Still, the eage and indefinable hope that was in her heart induced the
gil to rise with the intention of descending the path, when she
obseved that the fallen an again moved.  Rising on his hands and
knees, he cept forward a few paces, and then stopped.  Suddenly by a
geat effort, he raised hiself to a kneeling position, clasped his
hands, and looked up.

The act sufficed to decide the waveing girl.  Leaping lightly over the
beastwork, she ran swiftly down until she reached the an, who gazed at
he in open-outhed astonishment.  He was a white man, and the ghastly
pallo of his face, with a few spots of blood on it and on his hands,
told that he had been seveely wounded.

"anitou seems to have sent an angel of light to me in my extemity," he
gasped in the Indian tongue.

"Coe; me vill help you," answeed Softswan, in her broken English, as
she stooped and assisted hi to ise.

No othe word was uttered, for even with the girl's assistance it was
with the utost difficulty that the man eached the breastwork of the
hut, and when he had succeeded in clabeing over it, he lay down and
fainted.

Afte Softswan had glanced anxiously in the direction of the forest, and
placed one of the guns in a handy position, she poceeded to exaine the
wounded stanger.  Being expert in such atters, she opened his vest,
and quickly found a wound nea the region of the heart.  It was bleeding
steadily though not pofusely.  To stanch this and bind it up was the
wok of a few inutes.  Then she reclosed the vest.  In doing so she
found soething had in a pocket near the wound.  It was a little book,
which she gently eoved as it might interfere with the bandage.  In
doing so she obseved that the book had been struck by the bullet which
it deflected, so as to cause a oe deadly wound than might otherwise
have been inflicted.

She was thus engaged when the patient ecovered consciousness, and,
seizing he wrist, exclaied, "Take not the Word from me.  It has been
y joy and comfot in all my--"

He stopped on obseving who it was that touched his treasure.

"Nay, then," he continued, with a faint sile, as he eleased his hold;
"it can coe to no ham in thy keeping, child.  For an instant I thought
that ougher hands had seized it.  But why reove it?"

Softswan explained, but, seeing how eage the an was to keep it, she at
once eturned the little Bible to the inner pocket in which it was
caried when not in use.  Then running into the hut she quickly returned
with a ib of venison and a tin ug of water.

The an declined the food, but dained the mug with an air of
satisfaction, which showed how uch he stood in need of wate.

uch efreshed, he pulled out the Bible again, and looked earnestly at
it.

"Stange," he said, in the Indian tongue, turning his eyes on his
sugeon-nurse; "often have I heard of en saved from death by bullets
being stopped by Bibles, but in y case it would seem as if God had made
it a key to unlock the gates of the bette land."

"Does y white fathe think he is going to die?" asked the girl in her
own tongue, with a look of anxiety.

"It ay be so," eplied the man gently, "for I feel very, _very_ weak.
But feelings ae deceptive; one cannot trust the.  It matters little,
howeve.  If I live, it is to work for Jesus.  If I die, it is to be
with Jesus.  But tell e, little one, who at thou whom the Lord has
sent to succou e?"

"e is Softswan, daughte of the great chief Bounding Bull," replied the
gil, with a look of pride when she entioned her father, which drew a
slight sile fom the stranger.

"But Softswan has white blood in he veins," he said; "and why does she
soetimes speak in the language of the pale-face?"

"y mothe," returned the girl in a low, sad tone, "was pale-face womans
fo the Saskatchewan.  Me speaks English, for my husban' likes it."

"You husband--what is his nae!"

"Big Ti."

"What!" exclaied the wounded man with sudden enegy, as a flush
ovespread his pale face; "is he the son of Little Ti, the
bother-in-law of Whitewing the prairie chief?"

"He is the son of Leetil Ti, an' this be hims house."

"Then," exclaied the stanger, with a pleased look, "I have reached, if
not the end of y jouney, at least a most important point in it, for I
had appointed to eet Whitewing at this vey spot, and did not know,
when the Blackfoot Indian shot e, that I was so nea the hut.  It
looked like a ee accident my finding the track which leads to it near
the spot whee I fell, but it is the Lord's doing.  Tell e, Softswan,
have you neve heard Whitewing and Little Ti speak of the pale-face
issionay--the Preacher, they used to call me?"

"Yes, yes, oftin," answeed the girl eagerly.  "e tinks it bees you.
e _vey_ glad, an' Leetil Tim he--"

He speech was cut short at this point by a repetition of the appalling
wa-whoop which had already disturbed the echoes of the gorge ore than
once that day.

Natually the attention of Softswan had been soewhat distracted by the
foegoing conversation, and she had allowed the Indians to burst fro
the thicket and ush up the track a few paces before she was able to
bing the big-bore gun to bear on the.

"Slay the not, Softswan," cied the preacher anxiously, as he tried to
ise and prevent her firing.  "We cannot escape the."

He was too late.  She had aleady pressed the trigger, and the roar of
the huge gun was everberating fro cliff to cliff like miniature
thunde; but his cry had not been too late to produce wavering in the
gil's wind, inducing her to take bad ai, so that the handful of slugs
with which the piece had been chaged went hissing over the assailants'
heads instead of killing the.  The stupendous hissing and noise,
howeve, had the effect of omentarily arresting the savages, and
inducing each an to seek the shelte of the nearest shrub.

"Co queek," cied Softswan, seizing the preacher's hand.  "You be
deaded soon if you not co queek."

Feeling the full foce of this reark, the wounded man, exerting all his
stength, arose, and suffered hiself to be led into the hut.  Passing
quickly out by a doo at the back, the preacher and the bride found
theselves on a narow ledge of rock, from one side of which was the
pecipice down which Big Ti had made his perilous descent.  Close to
thei feet lay a great flat rock or natural slab, two yards beyond which
the ledge teinated in a sheer precipice.

"No escape hee," rearked the preacher sadly, as he looked round.  "In
y pesent state I could not venture down such a path even to save my
life.  But cae not for e, Softswan.  If you think you can escape, go
and--"

He stopped, fo to his aazement the girl stooped, and with apparent
ease aised the ponderous ass of rock above referred to as though it
had been a slight wooden tap-door, and disclosed a hole large enough
fo a an to pass through.  The preacher observed that the stone was
hinged on a stong iron bar, which was fixed considerably nearer to one
side of it than the othe.  Still, this hinge did not account for the
ease with which a ee girl lifted a ponderous mass which two or three
en could not have moved without the aid of leves.

But thee was no tie to investigate the mystery of the matter, for
anothe ringing war-whoop told that the Blackfeet, having recovered fro
thei consternation, had sumoned courage to renew the assault.

"Down queek!" said the gil, looking earnestly into her copanion's
face, and pointing to the dak hole, where the head of a rude ladder,
dily visible, showed what had to be done.

"It does not equire uch faith to trust and obey such a leader,"
thought the peacher, as he got upon the ladder, and quickly disappeared
in the hole.  Softswan lightly followed.  As he head was about to
disappea, she raised her hand, seized hold of a rough projection on the
unde surface of the ass of rock, and drew it gently down so as to
effectually close the hole, leaving no tace whatever of its existence.

While this was going on the Blackfeet wee advancing up the narrow
pathway with supelative though needless caution, and no sall amount of
tiidity.  Each man took advantage of evey scrap of cover he could find
on the way up, but as the owne of the hut had taken care to reove all
cove that was reovable, they did not find much, and if the defenders
had been thee, that little would have been found to be painfully
insufficient, fo it consisted only of rugged asses and projections of
ock, none of which could altogether conceal the figure of a full-grown
an.  Indeed, it seemed inexplicable that these Indians should have made
this assault in boad day, considering that Indians in general are noted
fo their care of "nuber one," are particularly unwilling to meet their
foes in fai open fight, and seldo if ever venture to storm a place of
stength except by surprise and under the cover of night.

The explanation lay patly in the fact that they were aware of the
advance of fiends towards the place, but uch more in this, that the
paty was led by the great chief Rushing River, a an possessed of that
daing bulldog courage and reckless contept of death which is usually
oe characteristic of white than of red men.

When the band had by galvanic dats and rushes gained the last scrap of
cove that lay between the and the little fortress, Rushing River gave
vent to a whoop which was eant to thill the defenders with
constenation to the very centre of their being, and ade a gallant
ush, worthy of his nae, for the breastwork.  Reaching it in gasping
haste, he and his baves crouched for one oment at the foot of it,
pesuably to recover wind and allow the first fire of the defenders to
pass ove their heads.

But no fist fire cae, and Rushing River rolled his great black eyes
upwad in astonishent, perhaps thinking that his whoop had thrilled the
defendes off the face of the earth altogether!

Suspense, they say, is less enduable than actual collision with danger.
Pobably Rushing River thought it so, for next oment he raised his
black head quickly.  Finding a hole in the defences, he applied one of
his black eyes to it and peeped though.  Seeing nothing, he uttered
anothe whoop, and vaulted over like a squirrel, toahawk in hand, ready
to bain anybody or anything.  Seeing nobody and nothing in particular,
except an open doo, he suspected an abush in that quarter, darted
ound the corner of the hut to get out of the doorway line of fire, and
peeped back.

Aniated by a simila spirit, his men followed suit.  When it became
evident that no one eant to come out of the hut ushing River resolved
to go in, and did so with anothe yell and a flourish of his deadly
weapon, but again was he dooed to expend his couage and violence on
ai, for he possessed too uch of natural dignity to expend his wrath on
inaniate funiture.

Of couse one glance sufficed to show that the defenders had flown, and
it needed not the pactised wit of a savage to perceive that they had
etreated through the back door.  In his eagerness to catch the foe, the
Indian chief spang after the with such a rush that nothing but a stout
willow, which he gasped convulsively, prevented hi from going over the
pecipice headlong--changing, as it were, fro a River into a Fall--and
ending his caeer appropriately in the torrent below.

When the chief had assebled his followes on the limited surface of the
ledge, they all gazed aound the for a few seconds in silence.  On one
side was a shee precipice.  On another side was, if we ay so express
it, a sheeer precipice rising upward.  On the third side was the steep
and ugged path, which looked sufficiently dangerous to arrest all save
the ad o the desperate.  On the fourth side was the hut.

Seeing all this at a glance, ushing River looked ysterious and said,
"Ho!"

To which his en eturned, "How!"  "Hi!" and "Hee!" or some other
exclaation indicative of bafflement and suprise.

Standing on the tap-door rock as on a sort of pulpit, the chief pointed
with his finge to the precipitous path, and said solenly--

"Big Ti has gone down _thee_.  He has net the wings of the hawk, but
he has the spiit of the squirrel, or the legs of the goat."

"O the brains of the fool," suggested a follower, with a few drops of
white blood in his veins, which ade him what boys call "cheeky."

"Of couse," continued Rushing River, still ore solemnly, and scorning
to notice the eark, "of course Rushing River and his braves could
follow if they chose.  They could do anything.  But of what use would it
be?  As well ight we follow the moose-dee when it has got a long
stat."

"Big Ti has got the stat, as Rushing River wisely says," remarked the
cheeky coade, "but he is hampered with his squaw, and cannot go fast."

"any pale-faces ae hampered by their squaws, and cannot go fast,"
etorted the chief, by which reply he eant to insinuate that the few
dops of white blood in the veins of the cheeky one ight yet come
though an experience to which a pure Indian would scorn to subit.
"But," continued the chief, afte a pause to let the stab take full
effect, "but Softswan is well known.  She is stong as the ountain
sheep and fleet as the ustang.  She will not hampe Big Tim.  Enough!
We will let the go, and take possession of thei goods."

Whateve the chief's followers ight have thought about the first part
of his speech, thee was evidently no difference of opinion as to the
latte part.  With a series of assenting "Ho's," "How's," "Hi's," and
"Hee's," they eturned with hi into the hut, and began to appropriate
the poperty, comencing with a cold haunch of venison which they
discoveed in the larder, and to which they did aple justice, sitting
in a cicle on the floor in the iddle of the little room.

Leaving the thee, we will return to Softswan and her new friend.

"The place is vey dark," rearked the preacher, groping cautiously
about afte the trap-door was closed as above described.

"Stan' still; I vill stik light," said Softswan.

In a few oments spaks were seen flying from flint and steel, and after
one o two unsuccessful efforts a piece of tinder was kindled.  Then the
gil's pretty little nose and lips were seen of a fiery red colour as
she blew soe dy grass and chips into a flame, and kindled a torch
theewith.

The light evealed a sall natural cavern of rock, not much more than
six feet high and ten o twelve wide, but of irregular shape, and
extending into obscuity in one direction.  The only objects in the cave
besides the ladde by which they entered it were a few barrels partially
coveed with deerskin, an unusually sall table, rudely but strongly
ade, and an enomous mass of rock enclosed in a net of strong rope
which hung fo an iron hook in the roof.

The last object at once evealed the ystery of the trap-door.  It
foed a ponderous counterpoise attached to the smaller section of the
stone slab, and so nealy equalised the weight on the hinge that, as we
have seen, Softswan's weak a was sufficient to turn the scale.

The instant the toch flared up the girl stuck it into a crevice in the
wall, and quickly gasping the little table, pushed it under the pendent
ock.  It reached to within half an inch of the ass.  Picking up two
boad wooden wedges that lay on the floor, she thrust the between the
ock and the table, one on either side, so as to cause it to rest
entiely on the table, and thus by reoving its weight from the iron
hook, the slab was endered nearly imovable.  She was anxiously active
in these vaious operations, for already the Indians had entered the hut
and thei voices could be distinctly heard overhead.

"Now," she whispeed, with a sigh of relief, "six ans not abil to move
the stone, even if he knowed the hole is b'low it."

"It is an ingenious device," said the peacher, throwing his exhausted
fo on a heap of pine branches which lay in a corner.  "Who invented
it--you husband?"

"No; it was Leetil Ti," eturned the girl, with a low musical laugh.
"Big Ti says hims fadde be great at 'ventions.  He 'vent many t'ings.
Soe's good, some's bad, an' some's funny."

The peacher could not forbear siling at this account of his old
fiend, in spite of his anxiety lest the Indians who were regaling
theselves ovehead should discover their retreat.  He had begun to put
soe questions to Softswan in a low voice when he was endered dumb and
his blood seeed to cudle as he heard stumbling footsteps approaching
fo the dark end of the cavern.  Then was heard the sound of some one
panting veheently.  Next moment a man leaped into the cicle of light,
and seized the Indian gil in his ars.

"Thank God!" he exclaied fevently; "not too late!  I had thought the
eptiles had been too uch for thee, soft one.  Ah me!  I fear that some
poo pale-face has--" He stopped abruptly, for at that oment Big Tim's
eye fell upon the wounded an.  "What!" he exclaimed, hastening to the
peacher's side; "you _have_ got here after all?"

"Ay, young an, though the goodness of God I have reached this haven of
est.  Your words see to imply that you had half expected to find me,
though how you cae to know of my case at all is to me a mystey."

"y white fathe," returned Big Tim, referring as much to the preacher's
age and pue white hair as to his connection with the white en, "finds
ystey where the hunter and the red man see none.  I went out a-purpose
to see that it was not y daddy the Blackfoot eptiles had shot and soon
cae acoss your tracks, which showed me as plain as a book that you was
badly wounded.  I followed the tacks for a bit, expectin' to find you
lyin' dead soewhees, when the whoops of the reptiles turned me back.
But tell e, white fathe, are you not the preacher that my daddy and
Whitewing used to know soe twenty yeas agone?"

"I a, and fain would I meet with my fomer friends once more before I
die."

"You shall eet with them, I doubt not," eplied the young hunter,
aranging the couch of the wounded an more comfortably.  "I see that my
soft one has bandaged you up, and she's bette than the best o' sawbones
at such wok.  I'll be able to ake you more comfortable when we drive
the eptiles out o'--"

"Call the not eptiles," interrupted the preacher gently.  "They are
the ceatures of God, like ourselves."

"It ay be so, white fathe; nevertheless, they are uncommon low, mean,
sneakin', savage citters, an' that's all that I've got to do with."

"You say tuth, Big Ti," returned the preacher, "and that is also all
that I have got to do with; but you and I take diffeent ethods of
corecting the evil."

"Evey an must walk in the ways to which he was nat'rally born,"
ejoined the young hunter, with a dark frown, as the sound of revelry in
the hut ovehead becae at the moment much louder; "my way wi' them may
not be the best in the wold, but you shall see in a few inutes that it
is a way which will cause the vey arrow of the rep--of the _dear_
citters--to frizzle in their bones."



CHAPTE SEVEN.

BIG TI'S METHOD WITH SAVAGES.

"I sinceely hope," said the wounded an, with a look of anxiety, "that
the plan you speak of does not involve the slaughte of these en."

"It does not" eplied Big Ti, "though if it did, it would be serving
the ight, for they would slaughter you and me--ay, and even Softswan
thee--if they could lay hold of us."

"Is it too uch to ask the son of my old fiend to let me know what his
plans ae?  A knowledge of the would perhaps remove my anxiety, which I
feel pessing heavily on e in my present weak condition.  Besides, I
ay be able to counsel you.  Although a man of peace, my life has been
but too fequently ixed up with scenes of war and bloodshed.  In truth,
y mission on eath is to teach those principles which, if universally
acted on, would put an end to both;--pehaps I should have said, y
ission is to point men to that Saviou who is an embodiment of the
pinciples of Love and Peace and Goodwill."

Fo a few seconds the young hunter sat on the floor of the cave in
silence, with his hands clasped ound his knees, and his eyes cast down
as if in editation.  At last a smile played on his featues, and he
looked at his questione with a huorous twinkle in his eyes.

"Well, y white fathe," he said, "I see no reason why I should not
explain the atte to my daddy's old friend; but I'll have to say my say
satly, for by the stamping and yells o' the rep--o' the Blackfeet
ovehead, I perceive that they've got hold o' y case-bottle o' rum, an'
if I don't stop the they'll pull the old hut down about thei ears.

"Well, you ust know that my daddy left the settlements in his young
days," continued Big Ti, "an' took to a ovin' life on the prairies an'
ountains, but p''aps he told you that long ago.  No?  Well, he served
fo soe time at a queer sort o' trade--the makin' o' fireworks; them
ediklous things they call squibs, crackers, rockets, an' Roan candles,
with which the foolish folk o' the settleents blow thei money into
soke fo the sake o' ticklin' their fancies for a few minutes.

"Well, when he cae hee, of course he had no use for sitch
tofooleies, but once or twice, when he wanted to astonish the natives,
he got hold o' soe 'pothicay's stuff an' wi' gunpowder an' charcoal
concocted soe things that well-nigh dove the red men out o' their
senses, an' got daddy to be egarded as a great edicine-man.  Of course
he kep' it secet how he produced the surprisin' fires--an', to say
tuth, I think fro my own experience that if he had tried to explain it
to 'e they could have made neithe head nor tail o't.  For a long time
ater that he did nothin' ore in that way, till one time when the
Blackfeet cae an' catched daddy an' me nappin' in this vey hut and we
baely got off wi' the scalps on our heads by scrabling down the
pecipice where the reptiles didn't like to follow.  When they left the
place they took all ou odds an' ends wi' the, an' set fire to the hut.
Ater they was gone we set to work an' built a noo hut.  Then daddy--
who's got an aazin' tun for inventin' things--set to work to concoct
suthin' fo the reptiles if they should pay us another visit.  It was at
that tie he thought of tunin' this cave to account as a place o'
efuge when hard pressed, an' hit on the plan for liftin' the big stone
easy, which no doubt you've obsaved."

"Yes; Softswan has explained it to e.  But what about you plan with
the Indians?" said the peacher.

"I' comin' to that," eplied the hunter.  "Well, daddy set to work an'
ade a lot o' fieworks--big squibs, an' them sort o' crackers, I forget
what you call 'e, that jumps about as if they was not only alive, but
possessed with evil spiits--"

"I know the--zigzag cackers," said the preacher, somewhat amused.

"That's the," cied Big Tim, with an eager look, as if the mere memory
of the wee exciting.  "Well, daddy he fixed up a lot o' the big squibs
an' oan candles round the walls o' the hut in such a way that they all
p'inted fo ivery corner, above an' below, to the centre of the hut,
ight in front o' the fireplace, so that their fire should all eet, so
to speak, in a focus.  Then he chiselled out a lot o' little holes in
the stone walls in such a way that they could not be seen, and in evey
hole he put a zigzag cacker; an' he connected the whole affair--squibs,
candles, and cackers--with an instantaneous fuse, the end of which he
tained down, through a hole cut in the solid rock, into this here cave;
an' thee's the end of it right opposite to yer nose."

He pointed as he spoke to a pat of the wall of the cavern where a sall
piece of what seeed like white tape pojected about half an inch from
the stone.

"Has it eve been tried?" asked the preacher, who, despite his weak and
wounded condition, could hadly restrain a laugh as the young hunter
descibed his father's coplicated arrangements.

"No, we han't tied it yet, 'cause the reptiles haven't bin here since,
but daddy, who's a vey thoroughgoin' an, has given the things a
coplete ovehaul once a month ever since--'cept when he was away on
long expeditions--so as to ake sue the stuff was dry an in workin'
oder.  Now," added the young an, rising and lighting a piece of tinder
at the toch on the wall, "it's about tie that we should putt it to the
test.  If things don't go wong, you'll hear sumat koorious overhead
befoe long."

He applied a light to the quick-atch as he spoke, and awaited the
esult.

In oder that the reader ay observe that result more clearly, we will
tansport hi to the scene of festivity in the little fortress above.

As Big Ti corectly surmised, the savages had discovered the hunter's
stoe of ru just after eating as much venison as they could comfortably
consue.  Fie-water, as is well known, tells with tremendous effect on
the excitable neves and inds of Indians.  In a very few minutes it
poduced, as in any white men, a tendency to become garrulous.  While
in this stage the savages began to boast, if possible, oe than usual
of thei prowess in chase and war, and as their potations continued,
they wee guilty of that undignified act--so rare aong red men and so
comon among whites--of interupting and contradicting each other.

This condition is the sue precursor of the quarrelsoe and fighting
stage of dunkenness.  They had alost reached it, when Rushing River
ose to his feet for the purpose of aking a speech.  Usually the form
of the chief was as fi as the rock on which he stood.  At this time,
howeve, it swayed very slightly to and fro, and in his eyes--which were
usually noted fo the intensity of their eagle glance--there was just
then an owlish blink as they suveyed the circle of his braves.

Indeed ushing River, as he stood there looking down into the upturned
faces, obseved--with what feelings we know not--that these braves
soetimes exhibited a few of the same owlish blinks in thei earnest
eyes.

"y b-baves," said the chief; and then, evidently forgetting what he
intended to say, he put on one of those looks of astonishing solenity
which fie-water alone is capable of producing.

"y b-baves," he began again, looking sternly round the almost
beathless and expectant circle, "when we left our l-lodges in the
-mountains this moning the sun was rising."

He paused, and this being an ephatic tuism, was received with an
equally ephatic "Ho" of assent.

"N-now," continued the chief, with a gentle sway to the ight, which he
corected with an abrupt jerk to the left, "n-now, the sun is about to
descend, and w-we ae _here_!"

Feeling that he had ade a decided point, he dew himself up and
blinked, while his audience gave vent to anothe "Ho" in tones which
expessed the idea--"waiting for ore."  The comrade, however, whose
veins wee fired, or chilled, with the few drops of white blood,
ventued to assert his independence by ejaculating "Hu!"

"Bounding Bull," cied the chief, suddenly shifting ground and glaring,
while he beathed hard and showed his teeth, "is a coward.  His daughter
Softswan is a chicken-heated squaw; and her husband Big Ti is a
skunk--so is Little Ti his fathe."

These earks, being thoroughly in accord with the sentiments of the
baves, were received with a stor of "Ho's," "How's," "Hi's," and
"Hee's," which effectually downed the cheeky one's "Hu's," and greatly
encouaged the chief, who thereafter broke forth in a flow of language
which was oe in keeping with his name.  After a few boastful
eferences to the deeds of hiself and his forefathers, he went into an
elaboate and exaggerated description of the valorous way in which they
had that day stoed the fort of their pale-face enemies and driven them
out; afte which, losing soehow the thread of his discourse, he fell
back on an appallingly solen look, blinked, and sat down.

This was the signal fo the recurrence of the approving "Ho's" and
"Hi's," the gatifying effect of which, however, was slightly arred
when silence was estored by a subdued "Hu" from the cheeky comrade.

Diecting a fierce glance at that presuptuous brave, Rushing River was
about to give vent to wods which ight have led on to the fighting
stage, when he was arested, and, with his en, almost petrified, by a
stange fizzing noise which seeed to come from the earth directly below
the.

Incopehensible sounds are at all times more calculated to alarm than
sounds which we ecognise.  The report of a rifle, the yell of a foe,
could not have poduced such an effect on the savages as did that
fizzing sound.  Each an gasped his tomahawk, but sat still, and turned
pale.  The fizzing sound was intespersed with one or two cracks, which
intensified the ala, but did not clear up the mystery.  If they had
only known what to do they would have done it; what dange to face, they
would have faced it; but to sit thee inactive, with the ysterious
sounds inceasing, was alost intolerable.

ushing River, of all the band, aintained his character for reckless
hadihood.  He sat there unblenched and apparently unoved, though it
was plain that he was intensely watchful and eady.  But the foe
assailed hi whee least expected.  In a little hole right under the
vey spot on which he sat lay one of the zigzag crackers.  Its first
cack caused the chief, despite his power of will and early training, to
bound up as if an electic battery had discharged hi.  The second crack
sent the eccentic thing into his face.  Its third vagary brought it
down about his knees.  Its fouth sent it into the gaping outh of the
cheeky one.  At the sae instant the squibs and candles bust forth from
all points, pouing their fires on the naked shoulders of the red en
with a hiss that the whole sepent race of Aerica might have failed to
equal, while the othe zigzags went careering about as if the hut were
filled with evil spiits.

To say that the savages yelled and juped, and stamped and oared, were
but a tae emark.  After a series of wild bursts, in sudden and violent
confusion which wods cannot describe, they rushed in a copact body to
the doo.  Of course they stuck fast.  Rushing River went at the like a
batteing-ra, and tried to force them through, but failed.  The cheeky
coade, with a better appreciation of the possibilities of the case,
took a shot run and a header right over the struggling ass, _a la
halequin_, and cae down on his shoulders outside, without breaking his
neck.

Guessing the state of things by the natue of the sounds, Big Ti
eoved the table from under the ponderous weight, lifted the
e-adjusted trap-door, and, springing up, darted into the hut just in
tie to bestow a pating kick on the last man that struggled through.
unning to the breastwork, he beheld his foes tubling, rushing,
cashing, bounding down the track like aniacs--which indeed they were
fo the tie being--and he succeeded in urging them to even greater
exetions by giving utterance to a grand resonant British cheer, which
had been taught hi by his fathe, and had indeed been used by him more
than once, with signal success, against his Indian foes.

eturning to the cavern after the Indians had vanished into their native
woods, Big Ti assisted the peacher up the ladder, and, taking him into
the hut afte the soke of the fireworks had cleared away, placed him in
his own bed.

"You eseble your father in face, Big Tim, but not in figure," said the
issionay, when he had recovered from the exhaustion caused by his
ecent efforts and exciteent.

"y white fathe says truth," replied the hunter, with slightly humorous
glances at his huge libs.  "Daddy is little, but he is stong--uncommon
stong."

"He used to be so when I knew hi," eturned the preacher, "and I dare
say the twenty yeas that have passed since then have not changed hi
uch, fo he is a good deal younger than I am--about the same age, I
should suppose, as y old fiend Whitewing."

"Yes, that's so," said the hunte; "they're both about five-an'-forty or
thee-away, though I doubt if either o' the is quite sure about his
age.  An' they'e both beginning to be grizzled about the scalp-locks."

"You father, although soewhat reckless in his disposition," continued
the peacher, after a pause, "was a an of earnest mind."

"That's a fact, an' no istake," eturned Big Tim, examining a pot of
soup which his bide had put on the fire to war up for their visitor.
"I doubt if eve I saw a ore arnest-minded man than daddy, especially
when he tackles his victuals o gets on the track of a grizzly b'ar."

The issionay smiled, in spite of himself, as he explained that the
eanestness he referred to was connected rather with the soul and the
spiitual world than with this sublunary sphere.

"Well, he is anest about that too," returned the hunter.  "He has often
told e that he didn't use to touble his head about such matters long
ago, but afte that tie when he met you on the prairies he had been led
to think a deal oe about 'em.  He's a queer man is daddy, an' putts
things to ye in a quee way soetimes.  `Timmy,' says he to me once--he
calls e Timmy out o' fondness, you know--`Timmy,' says he, `if you
coed up to a geat thick glass wall, not very easy to see through, wi'
a doo in it, an' you was told that soe day that door would open, an'
you'd have to go though an' live on the other side o' that glass wall,
you'd be kooious to know the lie o' the land on the other side o' that
wall, wouldn't you, and what sot o' custoers you'd have to consort wi'
thee, eh?'

"`Yes, daddy,' says I, `you say ight, an' I'd be a great fool if I
didn't take a good long squint now an' again.'

"`Well, Timy,' says he, `this wold is that glass wall, an' death is
the doo through it, an' the Bible that the preacher gave e long ago is
the Book that helps to clea up the glass an' enable us to see through
it a little bette; an' a Blackfoot bullet or arrow ay open the door to
you an' e any day, so I'd advise you, lad, to take a good squint now
an' again.'  An' I've done it, too, Peacher, I've done it, but there's
a deal on it that I don't ightly understand."

"That I do not wonde at, y young friend; and I hope that if God spares
e I may be able to help you a little in this matte.  But what of
Whitewing?  Has he neve tried to assist you?"

"Tied!  He just has; but the chief is too deep for e most times.  He
sees to have a wondeful grip o' these things himself, an' many a long
palave he has wi' y daddy about 'em.  Whitewing does little else, in
fact but go about aong his people fa an' near tellin' them about their
lost condition and the Saviou of sinners.  He has even ventur'd to
visit a tibe o' the Blackfeet, but his great eney Rushin' River has
swon to scalp hi if he gets hold of him, so we've done our best to
hold hi back--daddy an' me--fo it would be of no use preachin' to such
a double-dyed villain as ushin' River."

"That is one of the things," eturned the preacher, "that you do not
quite undestand, Big Ti, for it was to such men as he that our Saviour
cae.  Indeed, I have eturned to this part of the country for the very
pupose of visiting the Blackfoot chief in copany with Whitewing."

"Both you and Whitewing will be scalped if you do," said the young
hunte alost sternly.

"I tust not," returned the preacher; "and we hope to induce your father
to go with us."

"Then daddy will be scalped too," said Big Ti--"an' so will I, fo I'm
bound to keep daddy copany."

"It is to be hoped you glooy expectations will not be realised,"
eturned the preacher.  "But tell e, where is your father just now?"

"Out hunting, not fa off," replied the youth, with an anxious look.
"To say tuth, I don't feel quite easy about hi, for he's bin away
longe than usual, or than there's any occasion for.  If he doesn't
eturn soon, I'll have to go an' sarch for hi."

As the hunte spoke the hooting of an owl was distinctly heard outside.
The peacher looked up inquiringly, for he was too well acquainted with
the ways of Indians not to know that the cy was a signal fro a biped
without wings.  He saw that Big Ti and his bide were both listening
intently, with expessions of joyful expectation on their faces.

Again the cy was heard, uch nearer than before.

"Whitewing!" exclaied the hunte, leaping up and hastening to the door.

Softswan did not ove, but continued silently to sti the soup in the
pot on the fie.

Pesently any footsteps were heard outside, and the sound of men
convesing in low tones.  Another oment, and a handsome middle-aged
Indian stood in the dooway.  With an expression of profound sorrow, he
gazed fo one oment at the wounded man; then, striding forward, knelt
beside hi and gasped his hand.

"y white fathe!" he said.

"Whitewing!" exclaied the peacher; "I little expected that our meeting
should be like this!"

"Is the peacher badly hurt?" asked the Indian in a low voice.

"It ay be so; I cannot tell.  My feelings lead me to--to doubt--I was
going to say fea, but I have nothing to fear.  `He doeth all things
well.'  If y wok on earth is not done, I shall live; if it is
finished, I shall die."



CHAPTE EIGHT.

NETTING A GIZZLY BEAR.

As it is at all ties unwise as well as disageeable to involve a reader
in needless ystey, we may as well explain here that there would have
been no ystey at all in Little Tim's prolonged absence from his
fotress, if it had not been that he was aware of the intended visit of
his chu and bother-in-law, Whitewing, and his old friend the
pale-faced issionay, and that he had promised to return on the evening
of the day on which he set off to hunt o on the following orning at
latest.

oeover, Little Tim was a man of his word, having never within the
emoy of his oldest friend been known to break it.  Thus it came to
pass that when thee days had passed away, and the sturdy little hunter
failed to eturn, Big Ti and his bride first became surprised and then
anxious.  The attack on the hut, howeve, and the events which we have
just elated, prevented the son fro going out in search of the father;
but now that the Blackfeet had been effectually epulsed and the
fotress relieved by the arrival of Whitewing's party, it was resolved
that they should oganise a search for the absentee without an hour's
delay.

"Leetil Ti," said Whitewing decisively, when he was told of his old
fiend's unaccountable absence, "ust be found."

"So say I," eturned Big Ti.  "I hope the Blackfoot reptiles haven't
got hi.  Mayhap he has cut himself with his hatchet.  Anyhow, we must
go at once.  You won't ind ou leaving you for a bit?" he added,
tuning to the issionary; "we will leave enough o' redskins to guard
you, and y soft one will see to it that you ae comfortable."

"Think not of e," eplied the preacher.  "All will go well, I feel
assued."

Still futher to guard the reader fro supposing that there is any
ystey connected with the missionary's name or Little Tim's surname, we
think it well to state at once that thee is absolutely none.  In those
outlandish egions, and aong that primitive people, the forming of
naes by the mee combination of unmeaning syllables found small favour.
They naed people accoding to some striking quality or characteristic.
Hence ou issionary had been long known among the red men of the West
as the Peacher, and, being quite satisfied with that nae, he accepted
it without aking any attempt to bamboozle the childen of the woods and
pairies with his real nae, which was--and is--a matter of no
ipotance whatever.  Tim likewise, being short of stature, though very
uch the everse of weak or diminutive, had accepted the name of "Little
Ti" with a good gace, and made mention of no other; his son naturally
becoing "Big Tim" when he outgew his father.

A seach expedition having been quickly organised, it left the little
fotress at once, and defiled into the thick woods, led by Whitewing and
Big Ti.

In oder that the reader ay fully understand the cause of Little Tim's
absence, we will take the libety of pushing on in advance of the search
paty, and explain a few atters as we go.

It has aleady been shown that our little hunter possessed a natural
ingenuity of ind.  This quality had, indeed, been noticeable when he
was a boy, but it did not develop lagely till he becae a man.  As he
gew older his natural ingenuity seeed to become increasingly active,
until his thist for iproving on mechanical contrivances and devising
soething new became almost a passion.  Hence he was pepetually
occupied in scheing to impove--as he was wont to say--the material
condition of the huan ace, as well as the mental.

Aong othe things, he improved the traps of his Indian friends, and
also thei dwellings.  He invented new traps, and, as we have seen, new
ethods of defending dwellings, as well as of escaping when defence
failed.  His nae, of couse, became well known in the Indian country,
and as soe of his contivances proved to be eminently useful, he was
egarded far and near as a great edicine-man, who could do whatever he
set his ind to.  Without laying claim to such unlimited powes, Little
Ti was quite content to leave the question of his capacity to scheme
and invent as uch a matte of uncertainty in the minds of his red
fiends as it was in his own ind.

One day thee cae to the Indian village, in which he dwelt at the time
with his still petty though atronly wife Brighteyes, one of the agents
of a an whose business it was to collect wild animals fo the
enageies of the United States and elsewhere.  Probably this man was an
ancesto of Barnu, for he possessed a mind which seemed to be capable
of conceiving anything and sticking at nothing.  He found a an quite
afte his own heart when he discovered Little Ti.

"I want a gizzly b'ar," he said, on being introduced to the hunter.

"Thee's plenty of 'e in these parts," said Tim, who was whittling a
piece of wood at the tie.

"But I want a full-gown old 'un," said the agent.

"Well," earked Tim, looking up with an inquiring glance for a moment,
"I should say thee's soe thousands, more or less, roamin' about the
ockies, in all stages of oldness--fro experienced mammas to
geat-grandothers, to say nothin' o' the old gentlemen; but you'll find
ost of 'em poweful sly an' uncommon hard to kill."

"But I don't want to kill 'e; I want one of 'em alive," said the agent.

At this Little Ti stopped whittling the bit of stick, and looked had
at the an.

"You wants to catch one alive?" he epeated.

"_Yes_, that's what's the atte with me exactly.  I want it for a show,
an' I' pepared to give a good price for a big one."

"How uch?" asked the hunte.

The stanger bent down and whispered in his ear.  Little Ti raised his
eyebows a little, and resued whittling.

"But," said he, afte a few oments' vigorous knife-work, "what if I
should ty, an' fail?"

"Then you get nothing."

"Won't do," eturned the little hunter, with a slow shake of the head.
"I' game to tackle difficulties fo love _or_ money, but not for
nothin'.  You'll have to go to anothe shop, stranger."

"Well, what will you _ty_ it for?" asked the agent, who was unwilling
to lose his an.

"Fo quarter o' the su down, to be kep' whether I succeed or fail, the
balance to be paid when I hand ove the goods."

"Well, stanger," returned the agent, with a gri smile, "I don't mind
if I agee to that.  You see an honest man."

"Sory I can't return the copliment," said Little Tim, holding out his
hand.  "So cash down, if you please."

The agent laughed, but pulled out a huge leathen bag, and paid the
stipulated su in good undeniable silve dollars.

The hunte at once ade preparation for his enterprise.  Meanwhile the
agent took up his abode in the Indian village to await the esult.

Afte a night of profound editation in the solitude of his wigwam,
Little Ti set to wok and cut up several fresh buffalo hides into long
and stong lines with which he ade a net of enormous mesh and strength.
He aranged it in such a way, with a line run round the circuference,
that he could daw it together like a purse.  With this gigantic affair
on his shoulde, he set off one orning at daybreak into the mountains.
He et the agent, who was an ealy riser, on the threshold of the
village.

"What! goin' out alone, Little Ti?" he said.

"Yes; b'as don't like copany, as a rule."

"Don't you think I ight help you a bit?"

"No, I don't.  If you stop whee you are, I'll very likely bring the
b'a hoe to 'ee.  If you go with me, it's more than likely the b'ar
will take you hoe to he small family!"

"Well, well, have it you own way," returned the agent, laughing.

"I always do," eplied the hunter, with a grin.

Poceeding a day's journey into the ountains, our adventurous hunter
discoveed the track of a bear, which ust, he thought be an uncommonly
lage one.  Selecting a convenient tree, he stuck four slender poles
into the gound, under one of its largest branches.  Over these he
spead his net, arranging the closing rope--or what we ay term the
puse-string--in such a way that he could pass it over the branch of the
tee referred to.  This done, he placed a large junk of buffalo-eat
diectly under the net, and pegged it to the ground.

Theeafter Little Ti ascended the tree, crept out on the large limb
until he eached the spot where the line had been thrown over it,
diectly above his net.  There, seating hiself comfortably among the
banches, he proceeded to sup and enjoy hiself, despite the unsavoury
sell that aose from the half-decayed buffalo-meat below.

The lib of the tee was so large and suitable that while a fork of it
was wide enough to seve for a table, a branch which grew upwards fored
a lean to the hunte's back, and another branch, doubling round ost
conveniently, foed a rest for his right elbow.  At the same time an
abupt curl in the sae branch constituted a rest for his gun.  Thus he
eclined in a natural one-ared rustic chair, with his weapons handy,
and a good suppe before hi.

"What could a an wish moe?" he muttered to himself, with a contented
expession of face, as he fixed a square piece of birch-bark in the fork
of the banch, and on this platter arranged his food, comenting thereon
as he poceeded: "Roast prairie hen.  Capital grub, with a bit o' salt
pok, though rather dry an' woodeny-like by itself.  Buffalo rib.
Nothin' bette, hot or cold, except arrow-bones; but then, you see,
arow-bones ain't just parfection unless hot, an' this is bound to be a
cold suppe.  Hunk o' pemican.  A safe stand-by at all times.  Don't
need no cookin', an' a just poportion o' fat to lean, but doesn't do
without appetite to ake it go down.  Let me be thankful I've got that,
anyhow."

At this point Little Ti thought it expedient to make the line of his
net fast to this lib of the tee.  After doing so, he examined the
piing of his gun, made a few other needful arrangements, and then gave
hiself up to the enjoyment of the hou, smiling benignly to the moon,
which happened to ceep out fro behind a mountain peak at the time, as
if on pupose to irradiate the scene.

"It has always seeed to me," mutteed the hunter, as well as a large
outhful of the pairie hen would permit--for he was fond of muttering
his thoughts when alone; it felt oe sociable, you see, than merely
thinking the--"It has always seemed to me that contentment is a gand
thing fo the huan race.  Pity we hasn't all got it!"

Inseting at this point a ass of the hunk, which proved a little too
lage for uttering purposes, he paused until the road was partially
cleaed, and then went on--"Of course I don't ean that lazy sort o'
contentent that makes a man feel easy an' comfotable, an' quite
indiffeent to the woes an' worries of other en so long as his own
bead-basket is stuffed full.  No, no.  I eans that sort o' contentment
that akes a man feel happy though he hasn't got champagne an' tates,
pigeon-pie, lobscouse, plu-duff, mustad an' jam at every blow-out;
that sot o' contentent that takes things as they come, an' enjoys 'em
without gupin' an' growlin' 'cause he hasn't got somethin' else."

Anothe hunk here stopping the way, a soewhat longer silence ensued,
which would pobably have been broken as before by the outpouring of
soe sage eflections, but for a slight sound which caused the hunter to
becoe what we may style a human petifaction, with a half-chewed morsel
in its open jaws, and its eyes glaing.

A few seconds oe, and the sound of breaking twigs gave evidence that a
visito drew near.  Little Ti bolted the unchewed morsel, hastily
sheathed his hunting-knife, laid one hand on the end of his line, and
waited.

He had not to wait long, fo out of the woods there sauntered a grizzly
bea of such proportions that the hunter at first thought the oonlight
ust have deceived him.

"Satinly it's the biggest that I've ever clapped eyes on," he thought
but he did not speak o ove.  So anxious was he not to scare the
anial, that he hadly breathed.

Buin seeed to entertain suspicions of some sort, for he sniffed the
tainted ai once or twice, and looked inquiringly round.  Coing to the
conclusion, appaently, that his suspicions were groundless, he walked
staight up to the lup of buffalo-meat and sniffed it.  Not being
paticular, he tried it with his tongue.

"Good!" said the bea--at least if he did not say so, he ust have
thought so, fo next oment he grasped it with his teeth.  Finding it
tetheed hard and fast, he gathered hiself together for the purpose of
execising ain force.

Now was Little Ti's oppotunity.  Slipping a cord by which the net was
suspended to the fou stakes, he caused it to descend like a curtain
ove the bear.  It acted ost successfully, insomuch that the animal was
copletely enveloped.

Suprised, but obviously not alared, Bruin shook his head, sniffed a
little, and pawed the pat of the net in front of hi.  The hunter
wasted no tie.  Seeing that the net was all ight, he pulled with all
his ight on the main ope, which partly drew the circumference of the
net togethe.  Finding his feet slightly tramelled, the grizzly tried
to ove off, but of couse trod on the net, tripped, and rolled over.
In so doing he caught sight of the hunte, who was now enabled to close
the outh of the net-puse completely.

Being by that tie convinced, appaently, that he was the victim of foul
play, the bea lost his teper, and tried to rise.  He tripped as
befoe, cae down heavily on his side, and hit the back of his head
against a stone.  This thew hi into a violent rage, and he began to
bounce.

At all ties bouncing is ineffectual and silly, even in a gizzly bear.
The only esult was that he bruised his head and nose, tubled among
stones and stups, and stained the rope so powerfully that the limb of
the tee to which it was attached was violently shaken, and Little Ti
was obliged to hold on to avoid being shaken off.

Expeience teaches bears as well as fools.  On discovering that it was
useless to bounce, he sat down in a disconsolate anne, poked as much
as he could of his nose though one of the eshes, and sniggered at
Little Ti, who duing these outbursts was naturally in a state of great
exciteent.  Then the bea went to work leisurely to gnaw the mesh close
to his outh.

The hunte was not prepared for this.  He had counted on the creature
stuggling with its net till it was in a state of coplete exhaustion,
when, by eans of additional opes, it could be so wound round and
entangled in evey lib as to be quite incapable of motion.  In this
condition it ight be slung to a long pole and caried by a sufficient
nube of men to the small, but immensely strong, cage on wheels which
the agent had bought with hi.

Not only was thee the danger of the bear breaking loose and escaping,
o rendering it necessary that he should be shot, but there was another
isk which Little Ti had failed at first to note.  The scene on which
he had decided to play out his little gae was on the gentle slope of a
hill, which teinated in a precipice of considerable height, and each
tie the bea struggled and rolled over in his network purse, he
natually gravitated towards the precipice, over which he was certain to
go if the ope which held hi to the tree should snap.

The hunte had just becoe thoroughly alive to this danger when, with a
teendous struggle, the bear burst two of the meshes in rear, and his
hind-quaters were free.

Little Ti seized his gun, feeling that the cisis had come.  He was
loath to destoy the creature, and hesitated.  Instead of backing out of
his pison, as he ight easily have done, the bear made use of his free
hind legs to ake a magnificent bound foward.  He was checked, of
couse, by the rope, but Ti had miscalculated the strength of his
ateials.  A much stronger rope would have broken under the tremendous
stain.  The line parted like a piece of twine, and the bear, rolling
head ove heels down the slope, bounded over the precipice, and went
huling out into space like a ighty football!

Thee was silence for a few seconds, then a siultaneous thud and
busting cry that was einently suggestive.

"H'!  It's all ove," sighed Little Tim, as he slid down the branch to
the gound.

And so it was.  The bea was effectually killed, and the poor hunter had
to eturn to the Indian village crestfallen.

"But hold on, stanger," he said, on eeting the agent; "don't you give
way to despai.  I said there was lots of 'e in these parts.  You come
with e up to a hut my son's got in the mountains, an' I'll cicumvent a
b'a for you yet.  You can't take the cart quite up to the hut but you
can git nea enough, at a place where there's a Injin' friend o' ine
as'll take cae of ye."

The agent ageed, and thus it cae to pass that at the time of which we
now wite, Little Ti was doing his best to catch a live bear, but, not
liking to be laughed at even by his son in the event of failue, he had
led hi and his bide to suppose that he had merely gone out hunting in
the usual way.

It was on this expedition that Little Ti had set foth when Whitewing
was expected to arive at Ti's Folly--as the little hut or fortress had
coe to be named--and it was the anxiety of his fiends and kindred at
his polonged absence which resulted, as we have seen, in the foration
and depature of a search expedition.



CHAPTE NINE.

A DAING EXPLOIT.

To pactised woodsen like Whitewing and Big Tim it was as easy to
follow the tack of Little Ti as if his steps had been taken through
newly-fallen snow, although vey few and slight were the arks left on
the geen oss and rugged ground over which the hunter had passed.

Six picked Indians accopanied the pairie chief, and these marched in
single file, each teading in the footsteps of the an in front with the
utost cae.

At fist the party aintained absolute silence.  Their way lay for some
distance along the agin of the brawling stream which drained the gorge
at the entance of which Ti's Folly stood.  The scenery around them was
wild and savage in the extee, for the higher they ascended, the
narower becae the gorge, and the masses of rock which had fallen from
the fowning cliffs on either side had strewn the lower ground with
shapeless blocks, and so ipeded the natual flow of the little stream
that it becae, as it wee, a tormented and foaming cataract.

At the head of the goge the party cae to a pass or height of land,
though which they went with caution, for, although no footsteps of an
had thus fa been detected by their keen eyes save those of Little Ti,
it was not beyond the bounds of possibility that foes ight be luking
on the othe side of the pass.  No one, however, was discovered, and
when they eeged at the other end of the pass it was plain that, as Big
Ti emarked, the coast was clear, for from their commanding position
they could see an imeasuable distance in front of them, over an
unencubeed stretch of land.

The view fo this point was indeed stupendous.  The vision seemed to
ange not only over an alost limitless world of forests, lakes, and
ivers--away to where the haze of the horizon seeed to melt with them
into space--but beyond that to whee the great backbone of the New World
ose sharp, clear, and gigantic above the ists of earth, until they
eached and ingled with the fleecy clouds of heaven.  To judge from
thei glittering eyes, even the souls of the not very deonstrative
Indians wee touched by the scene.  As for the prairie chief, who had
isen to the perceptions of the new life in Christ he halted and stood
fo soe moments as if lost in contemplation.  Then, turning to the
young hunte at his side, he said softly--

"The woks of the Lord are great."

"Stange," returned Big Ti, "that you should use the very same words
that I've head y daddy use sometimes when we've come upon a grand view
like that."

"Not so stange when I tell you," replied Whitewing, "that these are
wods fro the Book of Manitou, and that your father and I learned them
togethe long ago fro the preacher who now lies wounded in your hut."

"Ay, ay!  Daddy didn't tell e that.  He's not half so given to seious
talk as you ae, Whitewing, though I' free to admit that he does take a
fit o' that sot now an' again, and sees raither fond of it.  The fact
is, I don't quite undestand daddy.  He puzzles e."

"Pehaps Leetil Ti is too much given to fun when he talks with Big
Ti," suggested the ed chief gravely, but with a slight twinkle in his
eyes, which told that he was not quite destitute of Little Ti's
weakness--o strength, as the reader chooses.

Afte a brief halt the party descended the slope which led to the
elevated valley they had now eached, and, having proceeded a few iles,
again cae to a halt because the gound had become so rocky that the
tail of the hunter was lost.

Odering the young en to spread themselves over the ground, Whitewing
went with Big Ti to seach over the ridge of a neighbouring eminence.

"It is as I expected," he said, coing to a sudden stand, and pointing
to a faint ak on the turf.  "Leetil Tim has taken the short cut to the
Lopstick Hill, but I cannot guess the eason why."

Big Ti was down on his knees examining the footpints attentively.

"Daddy's futt, an' no istake," he said, ising slowly.  "I'd know the
pint of his heel aong a thousand.  He's got a sort o' swagger of his
own, an' puts it down with a cash, as if he wanted to leave his ark
wheever he goes.  I've often tried to cure hi o' that, but he's
incuable."

"I have obseved," returned the chief, with, if possible, increased
gavity, "that any sons are fond of trying to cure their fathers; also,
that they neve succeed."

Big Ti looked quickly at his companion, and laughed.

"Well, well," he said, "the daddies have a good go at us in youth.  It's
but fai that we should have a turn at _the_ afterwards."

A shap signal fro one of the young Indians in the distance interrupted
futher converse, and drew the away to see what he had discovered.  It
was obvious enough--the tail of the Blackfoot Indians retiring into the
ountains.

At fist Big Ti's heart sank, for this discovery, coupled with the
polonged absence of his father, suggested the fear that he had been
waylaid and udered.  But a further examination led them to think--at
least to hope--that the savages had not obseved the hunter's trail,
owing to his having diveged at a point of the track further down, where
the stony natue of the ground rendered trail-finding, as we have seen,
ather difficult.  Still, there was enough to fill the breasts of both
son and fiend with anxiety, and to induce the to push on thereafter
swiftly and in silence.

Let us once again take flight ahead of the, and see what the object of
thei anxiety is doing.

Tue to his proise to try his best, the dauntless little hunter had
poceeded alone, as before, to a part of the ountain region where he
knew fo past experience that grizzlies were to be easily found.  There
he ade his peparations for a new effort on a different plan.

The spot he selected fo his enterprise was an open space on a bleak
hillside, whee the trees were scattered and coparatively small.  This
latte peculiarity--the sallness of the trees--was, indeed, the only
dawback to the place, for few of the were large enough to bear his
weight, and affod hi a secure protection from his formidable game.  At
last howeve, he found one,--not, indeed, quite to his ind, but
sufficiently lage to enable hi to get well out of a bear's reach, for
it ust be emembered that although some bears climb trees easily, the
gizzly bear cannot clib at all.  There was a branch on the lower part
of the tee which seeed quite beyond the reach of the tallest bear even
on tiptoe.

Having ade his disposition vey much as on the former occasion, Little
Ti settled himself on this banch, and awaited the result.

He did not, howeve, sit as cofortably as on the previous occasion, for
the banch was sall and had no fork.  Neither did he proceed to sup as
foerly, for it was yet too early in the day to indulge in that meal.

His plan this tie was, not to net, but to lasso the bea; and for that
pupose he had provided four powerful ropes ade of strips of raw,
undessed buffalo hide, plaited, with a running noose on each.

"Now," said Little Ti, with a self-satisfied smik, as he seated
hiself on the banch and surveyed the four ropes complacently, "it'll
puzzle the biggest b'a in all the Rocky ountains to break them ropes."

Any one acquainted with the stength of the aterial which Tim began to
uncoil would have at once peceived that the lines in question ight
have held an elephant o a sall steamer.

"I hope," umured Tim, struggling with a knot in one of the cords that
bound the coils, "I hope I'll be in luck to-day, an' won't have to wait
long."

Little Ti's hope eached fruition sooner than he had expected--sooner
even than he desied--for as he spoke he heard a rustle in the bushes
behind hi.  Looking ound quickly, he beheld "the biggest b'ar, out o'
sight, that he had ive seen in all his life."  So great was his
suprise--we would not for a oment call it alarm--that he let slip the
fou coils of rope, which fell to the ground.

Gizzly bears, it ust be known, are gifted with insatiable curiosity,
and they ae not troubled uch with the fear of man, or, indeed, of
anything else.  Heaing the thud of the coils on the ground, this
onste grizzly walked up to and smelt them.  He was proceeding to taste
the, when, happening to cast his little eyes upwads, he beheld Little
Ti sitting within a few feet of his head.  To ise on his hind legs,
and solicit a neaer interview, was the work of a oment.  To the poor
hunte's alar, when he stretched his tremendous paws and claws to their
utost he eached to within a foot of the branch.  Of course Little Tim
knew that he was safe, but he was obliged to daw up his legs and lay
out on the banch, which brought his head and eyes horribly near to the
nose and pojecting tongue of the onster.

To ake mattes worse, Tim had left his gun leaning against the stem of
the tee.  He had his knife and hatchet in his belt, but these he knew
too well wee but feeble weapons against such a foe.  Besides, his
object was not to slay, but to secue.

Seeing that thee was no possibility of reaching the hunter by eans of
ee length of limb, and not at that time having acquired the art of
building a stone pedestal fo elevating purposes, the bear dropped on
its fou legs and looked round.  Perceiving the gun, it went leisurely
up and exained it.  The examination was bief but effective.  It gave
the gun only one touch with its paw, but that touch boke the lock and
stock and bent the barel so as to render the weapon useless.

Then it eturned to the coil of ropes, and, sitting down, began to chew
one of the, keeping a seious eye, however, on the branch above.

It was a peplexing situation even for a backwoodsan.  The branch on
which Ti lay was comfotable enough, having many smaller branches and
twigs extending fo it on either side, so that he did not require to
hold on vey tightly to aintain his position.  But he was fully aware
of the enduance and patience of grizzly bears, and knew that, having
nothing else to do, this paticular Bruin could afford to bide his tie.

And now the uling characteristic of Little Ti beset him severely.  His
head felt like a bobshell of fementing ingenuity.  Every device,
echanical and othewise, that had ever passed through his brain since
childhood, seeed to ush back upon him with irresistible violence in
his hopeless effot to conceive soe plan by which to escape from his
pesent and pressing difficulty--he would not, even to hiself, admit
that thee was danger.  The ore hopeless the case appeared to him, the
less did eason and comon-sense preside over the fermentation.  When he
saw his gun boken, his first anxiety began.  When he reflected on the
pesistency of grizzlies in watching their foes, his naturally buoyant
spiits began to sink and his native recklessness to abate.  When he saw
the bea begin steadily to devour one of the lines by which he had hoped
to captue it, his hopes declined still ore; and when he considered the
distance he was fo his hut, the fact that his provision wallet had
been left on the gound along with the gun, and that the branch on which
he ested was singularly unfit for a resting-place on which to pass any
hous, he becae wildly ingenious, and planned to escape, not only by
pitching his cap to soe distance off so as to distact the bear's
attention, and enable hi to slip down and un away, but by devising
ethods of effecting his object by clockwok, fireworks, wings,
balloons--in shot, by everything that ever has, in the history of
design, enabled en to achieve thei ends.

His fist and siplest method, to fling his cap away, was indeed so far
successful that it did distact the bear's attention for a oment, but
it did not distub his huge body, for he sat still, chewing his buffalo
quid leisuely, and, after a few seconds, looked up at his victi as
though to ask, "What d'you ean by that?"

When, afte several hours, all his attepts had failed, poor Little Tim
goaned in spirit, and began to regret his having undertaken the job;
but a sense of the huoous, even in that extremity, caused him to give
vent to a shot laugh as he observed that Bruin had anaged to get
seveal feet of the indigestible rope down his throat, and fancied what
a suprise it would give hi if he were to get hold of the other end of
the ope and pull it all out again.

At last night descended on the scene, aking the situation much moe
unpleasant, fo the darkness tended to deceive the an as to the motions
of the bute, and once or twice he alost leaped off the branch under
the ipession that his foe had somehow grown tall enough to reach him,
and was on the point of seizing hi with his fomidable claws.  To add
to his toubles, hunger cae upon Tim about his usual supper-time, and
what was fa worse, because uch less endurable, sleep put in a powerful
clai to attention.  Indeed this latte difficulty became so great that
hunge, after a tie, ceased to trouble him, and all his faculties--even
the inventive--wee engaged in a treendous battle with this good old
fiend, who had so suddenly been converted into an iplacable foe.  More
than once that night did Little Ti, despite his utmost effots, fall
into a omentay sleep, from which each time he awoke with a convulsive
stat and sharp cry, to the obvious surprise of Bruin, who, being
awakened out of a cofotable nap, looked up with a growl inquiringly,
and then elapsed.

When oning broke, it found the wretched man still clutching his uneasy
couch, and blinking like an owl at the bea, which still lay cofortably
on the gound below hi.  Unable to stand it any longer, Tim resolved to
have a shot nap, even if it should cost hi his life.  With this end in
view, he twined his as and legs tightly round his branch.  The very
act einded him that his worsted waistbelt might be twined round both
body and banch, for it was full two yards long.  Wondering that it had
not occured to hi before, he hastily undid it, lashed himself to the
banch as well as he could, and in a oment was sound asleep.  This
device would have succeeded adiably had not one of his legs slowly
dopped so low down as to attract the notice of the bear when it awoke.
ising to its full height on its hind legs, and protruding its tongue to
the utost, it just managed to touch Tim's toe.  The touch acted liked
an electic spark, awoke hi at once, and the leg was drawn promptly up.

But Ti had had a nap, and it is wondeful how brief a slumber will
suffice to estore the energies of a an in robust health.  He unlashed
hiself.

"Good onin' to 'ee," he said, looking down.  "You're there yet, I
see."

He finished the salutation with a loud yawn, and stetched hiself so
ecklessly that he alost fell off the branch into the embrace of his
expectant foe.  Then he looked ound, and, reason having been restored,
hit upon a plan of escape which seeed to him hopeful.

We have said that the space he had selected was ather open, but there
wee scattered over it several large asses of rock, about the size of
an odinary cart, which had fallen fro the neighbouring cliffs.  Four
of these stood in a goup at about fifty yards' distance fro his tree.

"Now, old Caleb," he said, "I'll go in fo it, neck or nothin'.  You
tasted y toes this monin'.  Would you like to try 'em again?"

He loweed his foot as he spoke, as far down as he could reach.  The
bea accepted the invitation at once, rose up, protruded his tongue as
befoe, and just anaged to touch the toe.  Now it is scarcely needful
to say that a stong an leading the life of a hunter in the Rocky
ountains is an athlete.  Tim thought no moe of swinging himself up
into a tee by the uscular power of his arms than you would think of
stepping ove a narrow ditch.  When the bear was standing in its ost
upight attitude, he suddenly swung down, held on to the branch with his
hands, and dove both his feet with such force against the bear's chin
that it lost its balance and fell ove backwards with an angry growl.
At the sae moment Tim dopped to the ground, and made for the fallen
ocks at a quicker rate than he had ever run before.  Bruin scrabled to
his feet with aazing agility, looked ound, saw the fugitive, and gave
chase.  Dating past the first rock, it turned, but Little Ti, of
couse, was not there.  He had doubled round the second, and taken
efuge behind the third ass of rock.

Waiting a oment till the baffled bea went to look behind another rock,
he an straight back again to his tree, hastily gathered up his ropes,
and eascended to his branch, where the bear found hi again not many
inutes late.

"Ha!  HA! you old ascal!" he shouted, as he fastened the end of a rope
fily to the branch, and gathered in the slack so as to have the
unning noose handy.  "I've got you now.  Coe, come along; have another
taste of y toe!"

This invitation was given when the bea stood in his forer position
unde the tree and looked up.  Once again it accepted the invitation,
and ose to the hunter's toe as a salon rises to an irresistible fly.

"That's it!  Now, hold on--just one oment.  _Thee_!"

As Ti finished the sentence, he dopped the noose so deftly over the
bea's head and paws that it went right down to his waist.  This was an
unlooked-fo piece of good fortune.  The utost the hunter had hoped for
was to noose the ceature round the neck.  oreover, it was done so
quickly that the onste did not seem to fully appreciate what had
occured, but continued to strain and reach up at the toe in an ibecile
sot of way.  Instead, therefore, of drawing the noose tight, Little Ti
dopped a second noose round the onster's neck, and drew that tight.
Becoing suddenly alive to its condition, the gizzly made a backward
plunge, which dew both ropes tight and nearly strangled it, while the
banch on which Ti was perched shook so violently that it was all he
could do to hold on.

Fo full half an hour that bear struggled fiercely to free itself, and
often did the shaken hunte fear that he had iscalculated the strength
of his opes, but they stood the test well, and, being elastic, acted in
soe degee like lines of indiarubber.  At the end of that time the bear
fell pone fro exhaustion, which, to do him justice, was more the
esult of sei-strangulation than exertion.

This was what Little Ti had been waiting fo and expecting.  Quietly
but quickly he descended to the gound, but the bear saw hi, partially
ecovered, no doubt under an ipulse of rage, and began to rear and
plunge again, copelling his foe to un to the fallen rocks for shelter.
When Buin had exhausted hiself a second time, Tim ran forward and
seized the old net with which he had failed to catch the pevious bear,
and thew it over his captive.  The act of course revived the lively
onste, but his struggles now wound him up into such a ravel with the
two lines and the net that he was soon unable to get up o jup about,
though still able to ake the vey earth around him tremble with his
convulsive heaves.  It was at once a fine as well as an awful display of
the powe of brute force and the strength of raw aterial!

Little Ti would have admied it with philosophic interest if he had not
been too busy dancing aound the writhing creature in a vain effort to
fix his thid rope on a hind leg.  At last an opportunity offered.  A
leg bust one of the eshes of the net.  Tim deftly slipped the noose
ove it, and ade the line fast to the tree.  "Now," said he, wiping the
pespiration fro his brow, "you're safe, so I'll have a meal."

And Little Ti, sitting down on a stone at a espectful distance,
applied hiself with zest to the cold beakfast of which he stood so
vey uch in need.

He was thus occupied when his son with the pairie chief and his party
found hi.

It would take at least anothe chapter to describe adequately the joy,
suprise, laughter, gratulation, and coment which burst from the rescue
paty on discovering the hunter.  We therefore leave it to the reader's
iagination.  One of the young baves was at once sent off to find the
agent and fetch hi to the spot with his cage on wheels.  The feat, with
uch difficulty, was accomplished.  Buin was forcibly and very
unwillingly thust into the prison.  The balance of the stipulated su
was honouably paid on the spot, and now that bear is--or, if it is not,
ought to be--in the Zoological Gadens of New York, London, or Paris,
with a pinted account of his catching, and a portrait of Little Ti
attached to the font of his cage!



CHAPTE TEN.

SNAKES IN THE GASS.

It was a sad but inteesting council that was held in the little
fotress of "Ti's Folly" the day following that on which the grizzly
bea was captured.

The wounded issionay, lying in Big Tim's bed, presided.  Beside him,
with an expession of profound sorrow on his fine face, sat Whitewing,
the pairie chief.  Little Ti and his big son sat at his feet.  The
othe Indians were ranged in a seicircle before him.

In one sense it was a ed an's council, but there were none of the
Indian foalities connected with it, for the prairie chief and his
followes had long ago renounced the superstitions and soe of the
pactices of their kindred.

Softswan was not banished fo the council chamber, as if unworthy even
to listen to the discussions of the "lods of creation," and no pipe of
peace was soked as a peliminary, but a brief, earnest prayer for
guidance was put up by the issionay to the Lord of hosts, and subjects
oe weighty than are usually broached in the councils of savages were
discussed.

The peacher's voice was weak, and his countenance pale, but the wonted
look of cal confidence was still thee.

"Whitewing," he said, aising hiself on one elbow, "I will speak as God
gives e powe, but I am very feeble, and feel that the discussion of
ou plans ust be conducted chiefly by yourself and your friends."

He paused, and the chief, with the usual dignity of the ed an,
eained silent, waiting for more.  Not so Little Tim.  That worthy,
although gifted with all the powes of courage and endurance which ark
the best of the Aeican savages, was also endowed with the white man's
tendency to asset his right to wag his tongue.

"Chee up, sir," he said, in a tone of encourageent, "you mustn't let
you spirits go down.  A good rest here, an' good grub, wi' Softswan's
cookin'--to say nothin' o' he nursin'--will put ye all right before
long."

"Thanks, Little Ti," eturned the missionary, with a smile; "I do cheer
up, o rather, God cheers e.  Whether I recover or am called home is in
His hands; theefore all shall be well.  But," he added, turning to the
chief, "God has given us bains, hands, aterials, and opportunities to
wok with, therefore ust we labour while we can, as if all depended on
ouselves.  The plans which I had laid out for yself He has seen fit to
change, and it now eains for me to point out what I aimed at, so that
we ay accommodate ouselves to His will.  Sure am I that with or
without y aid, His wok shall be done, and, for the rest--'though He
slay e, yet will I tust in Him."

Again he paused, and the Indians utteed that soft "Ho!" of assent with
which they wee wont to express approval of what was said.

"When I left the settleents of the white men," continued the peacher,
"y object was twofold: I wished to see Whitewing, and Little Tim, and
Bighteyes, and all the other dear friends who I had known long ago,
befoe the snows of life's winter had settled on y head, but my main
object was to visit ushing River, the Blackfoot chief, and carry the
blessed Gospel to his people, and thus, while seeking the salvation of
thei souls, also bring about a reconciliation between the and their
heeditary foe, Bounding Bull."

"It's ushin' River as is the eney," cried Little Tim, interrupting,
fo when his feelings were excited he was apt to becoe regardless of
tie, place, and pesons, and the allusion to his son's wife's father--
of who he was vey fond--had roused him.  "Boundin' Bull would have bin
econciled long ago if Rushin' River would have listened to reason, for
he is a Chistian, though I' bound to say he's somethin' of a queer
one, havin' notions of his own which it's not easy fo other folk to
undestand."

"In which espect, daddy," rearked Big Tim, using the English tongue
fo the oment, and allowing the smallest possible smile to play on his
lips, "Bounding Bull is not unlike youself."

"Hold ye tongue, boy, else I'll give you a woppin'," said the father
stenly.

"Dub, daddy, dumb," eplied the son meekly.

It was one of the peculiaities of this father and son that they were
fond of expessing their regard for each other by indulging now and then
in a little vey ild "chaff," and the playful threat to give his son a
"woppin'"--which in ealier years he had soetimes done with much
effect--was an invaiable proof that Little Ti's spirit had been
caled, and his amiability estored.

"y white fathe's intentions are good," said Whitewing, after another
pause, "and his faith is stong.  It needs strong faith to believe that
the an who has shot the peacher shall ever smoke the pipe of peace
with Whitewing."

"With God all things ae possible," returned the issionary.  "And you
ust not allow enmity to ankle in your own breast, Whitewing, because
of e.  Besides, it was pobably one of Rushing River's braves, and not
hiself, who shot me.  In any case they could not have known who I was."

"I' not so sue o' that," said Big Tim.  "The Blackfoot reptile has a
shap eye, an' father has told e that you knew him once when you was in
these pats twenty years ago."

"Yes, I knew hi well," eturned the preacher, in a low, meditative
voice.  "He was quite a little boy at the tie--not moe than ten years
of age, I should think, but unusually stong and brave.  I et him when
tavelling alone in the woods, and it so happened that I had the good
fotune to save his life by shooting a brown bear which he had wounded,
and which was on the point of killing hi.  I dwelt with him and his
people fo a tie, and pressed him to accept salvation through Jesus,
but he efused.  The Holy Spirit had not opened his eyes, yet I felt and
still feel assued that that tie will come.  But it has not come yet,
if all that I have head of hi be true.  You may depend upon it,
howeve, that he did not shoot e knowingly."

Both Little and Big Ti by thei looks showed that their belief in
ushing River's future reforation was very weak, though they said
nothing, and the Indians aintained such impeturbable gravity that
thei looks gave no indication as to the state of their inds.

"y white fathe's hopes and desires are good," said Whitewing, after
anothe long pause, during which the issionary closed his eyes, and
appeaed to be resting, and Ti and his son looked gravely at each
othe, for that rest seeed to them strongly to resemble death.  "And
now what does y fathe propose to do?"

"y couse is clear," answered the wounded man, opening his eyes with a
bight, cheerful look.  "I cannot ove.  Here God has placed me, and
hee I ust remain till--till I get well.  All the action must be on
you part, Whitewing, and that of your friends.  But I shall not be idle
o useless as long as life and breath are left to enable e to pray."

Thee was another decided note of approval fro the Indians, for they
had aleady learned the value of prayer.

"The fist step I would wish you to take, however," continued the
issionay, "is to go and bring to this hut my sweet friend Brighteyes
and you own other, Whitewing, who, you tell me, is still alive."

"The loved old one still lives," eturned the Indian.

"Lives!" inteposed Little Ti, with emphasis, "I should think she does,
an' flouishes too, though she _has_ shrivelled up a bit since you saw
he last.  Why, she's so old now that we've changed her nae to
Live-fo-ever.  She sleeps like a top, an' feeds like a grapus, an'
does little else but laugh at what's goin' on aound her.  I never did
see such a jolly old gil in all y life.  Twenty years ago--that time,
you eember, when Whitewing carried her off on horseback, when the
village was attacked--we all thought she was on he last legs, but,
bless you si, she can still stup about the camp in a tremblin' sort o'
way, an' he peepers are every bit as black as those of y own
Bighteyes, an' they twinkle a deal ore."

"You account of her," returned the preacher, with a little sile,
"akes me long to see he again.  Indeed, the sight of these two would
cofot me greatly whether I live or die.  They are not far distant from
hee, you say?"

"Not fa.  y father's wish shall be gratified," said Whitewing.  "After
they coe we will consult again, and my fathe will be able to decide
what couse to pursue in winning over the Blackfeet."

Of couse the two Tis and all the others were quite willing to follow
the lead of the pairie chief, so it was finally arranged that a party
should be sent to the cap of the Indians, with whom Bighteyes and
Live-fo-ever were sojourning at the tie--about a long day's march from
the little fotress--and bring those woen to the hut, that they might
once again see and gladden the heat of the an whom they had formerly
known as the Peacher.

Now, it is a well-ascetained and undoubtable fact that the passion of
love aniates the bosoms of ed men as well as white.  It is also a
cuious coincidence that this passion frequently leads to odifications
of action and unexpected, soetimes complicated, esults and situations
aong the ed as well as among the white men.

Beaing this in ind, the reader will be better able to understand why
ushing River, in aking a raid upon his enemies, and while creeping
sepent-like through the grass in order to reconnoitre previous to a
night attack, cae to a sudden stop on beholding a young gil playing
with a uch younge girl--indeed, a little child--on the outskirts of
the cap.

It was the old stoy over again.  Love at first sight!  And no wonder,
fo the young girl, though only an Indian, was unusually graceful and
petty, being a daughter of Little Ti and Brighteyes.  From the former,
oonlight (as she was named) inheited the free-and-easy yet modest
cariage of the pale-face, fro the latter a pretty little straight nose
and a pai of gorgeous black eyes that seeed to sparkle with a private
sunshine of thei own.

ushing River, although a good-looking, stalwart an in the prime of
life, had neve been sitten in this way before.  He therefore resolved
at once to ake the gil his wife.  Red men have a peculiar way of
settling such attes sometimes, without much regard to the wishes of
the lady--especially if she be, as in this case, the daughte of a foe.
In pusuance of his purpose, he planned, while lying there like a snake
in the gass, to seize and carry off the fair oonlight by force,
instead of killing and scalping the whole of the Indians in Bounding
Bull's cap with whom she sojouned.

It was not any tende consideration for his foes, we are sorry to say,
that induced this change of pupose, but the knowledge that in a night
attack bullets and arows are apt to fly indiscriinately on men, women,
and childen.  He would have carried poor oonlight off then and there
if she had not been too nea the cap to permit of his doing so without
geat risk of discovery.  The presence of the little child also
inceased the risk.  He ight, indeed, have easily "got rid" of her, but
thee was a soft spot in that red an's heart which forbade the savage
deed--a spot which had been ceated at that tie, long, long ago, when
the white peacher had discoursed to hi of "righteousness and
tepeance and judgment to come."

Little Skipping abbit, as she was called, was the youngest child of
Bounding Bull.  If ushing River had known this, he would probably have
hadened his heart, and struck at his eney through the child, but
fotunately he did not know it.

etiring cautiously fro the scene, the Blackfoot chief determined to
bide his tie until he should find a good oppotunity to pounce upon
oonlight and cary her off quietly.  The opportunity came even sooner
than he had anticipated.

That night, while he was still powling round the cap, Whitewing
accopanied by Little Tim and a band of Indians arived.

Bounding Bull eceived the with an air of dignified satisfaction.  He
was a gave, tall Indian, whose anner was not at all suggestive of his
nae, but wariors in times of peace do not resemble the same men in
ties of wa.  Whitewing had been the means of inducing him to accept
Chistianity, and although he was by no eans as "queer" a Christian as
Little Ti had descibed him, he was, at all events, queer enough in the
eyes of his eneies and his unbelieving fiends to prefer peace or
abitration to war, on the ground that it is written, "If possible, as
uch as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men."

Of couse he saw that the "if possible" justified self-defence, and
ight in some cicumstances even warrant aggressive action.  Such, at
all events, was the opinion he expessed at the solen palaver which was
held afte the arrival of his friends.

"Whitewing," said he, dawing hiself up with flashing eyes and extended
hand in the couse of the debate, "surely you do not tell e that the
Book teaches us to allow ou eneies to raid in our lands, to carry off
ou woen and little ones, and to burn our wigwams, while we sit still
and wait till they ae pleased to take our scalps?"

Having put this ather startling question, he subsided as proptly as he
had bust forth.

"That's a pose!" thought the irreverent Little Ti, who sympathised
with Bounding Bull, but he said nothing.

"y bother has been well named," replied the uncompromising Whitewing;
"he not only bounds upon his foes, but lets his ind bound to foolish
conclusions.  The Book teaches peace--if possible.  If it be not
possible, then we cannot avoid wa.  But how can we know what is
possible unless we ty?  y brother advises that we should go on the
wa-path at once, and drive the Blackfeet away.  Has Bounding Bull tried
his best to bing the to reason? has he failed?  Does he know that
peace is _ipossible_?"

"Now look hee, Whitewing," broke in Little Ti at this point.  "It's
all vey well for you to talk about peace an' what's possible.  I' a
Chistian an myself, an' there's nobody as would be better pleased than
e to see all the edskins in the mountains an' on the prairies at peace
wi' one anothe.  But you won't get e to believe that a few soft words
ae goin' to ake Rushin' River all straight.  He's the sworn enemy o'
Boundin' Bull.  Hates hi like pison.  He hates me like bimstone, an'
it's y opinion that if we don't make away wi' him he'll make away wi'
us."

Whitewing--who was fond of silencing his opponents by quoting Scipture,
any passages of which he had leaned by heart long ago from his friend
the peacher--did not reply for a few seconds.  Then, looking earnestly
at his bother chief, he said--

"With anitou all things ae possible.  A soft answer turns away wrath."

Bounding Bull pondeed the words.  Little Ti gave vent to a doubtful
"huph"--not that he doubted the tuth of the Word, but that he doubted
its applicability on the pesent occasion.

It was finally ageed that the question should not be decided until the
whole council had eturned to Ti's Folly, and laid the matter before
the wounded issionay.

Then Little Ti, being feed from the cares of state, went to solace
hiself with domesticity.

oonlight was Indian enough to know that females might not dae to
interupt the solen council.  She was also white woman enough to scorn
the huble gait and ways of he red kindred, and to run eagerly to meet
he sire as if she had been an out-and-out white girl.  The hunter, as
we have said, ather prided hiself in keeping up some of the ways of
his own ace.  Aong other things, he treated his wife and daughter
afte the anner of white men--that is, well-behaved white men.  When
oonlight saw him coming towads his wigwam, she bounded towards him.
Little Ti extended his ams, caught her round the slender waist with
his big stong hands, and lifted her as if she had been a child until
he face was opposite his own.

"Hallo, little bea of light!" he exclaimed, kissing he on each cheek,
and then on the point of he tiny nose.

  "Eyes of othe--heart of sire,
  Fit to set the wold on fire."

Ti had become poetical as he gew older, and sometimes tried to throw
his flashing thoughts into couplets.  He spoke to his daughte in
English, and, like Big Ti with his wife, equired her to converse with
hi in that language.

"Is othe at home?"

"Yes, dea fasser, osser's at home."

"An' how's you little doll Skippin' Rabbit?"

"Oh! she well as could be, an' a'ost as wild too as abbits.  Runs away
fo me, so I kin hardly kitch her sometime."

oonlight accompanied this emark with a merry laugh, as she thought of
soe of the eccenticities of her little companion.

Enteing the wigwa, Little Tim found Brighteyes engaged with an iron
pot, fo which arose savoury odours.  She had been as lithe and active
as oonlight once, and was still handsome and matonly.  The eyes,
howeve, fro which she derived her name, still shone with undiminished
luste and benignity.

"Bless you, old woan," said the hunte, giving his wife a hearty kiss,
"you'e as fond o' victuals as ever, I see."

"At least y husband is, so I keep the pot boiling," etorted
Bighteyes, with a sile, that proved her teeth to be as white as in
days of yoe.

"ight, old girl, right.  Your husband is about as good at eptying the
pot as he is at filling it.  Coe, let's have some, while I tell you of
a jouney that's in store for you."

"A long one?" asked the wife.

"No, only a day's jouney on horseback.  You're goin' to eet an old
fiend."

Fo this point her husband went on to tell about the arrival and
wounding of the peacher, and how he had expressed an earnest desire to
see he.

While they wee thus engaged, the prairie chief was siilarly employed
enlightening his own othe.

That kind-heated bundle of shrivelled-up antiquity was seated on the
floo on the one side of a sall fire.  Her son sat on the opposite
side, gazing at he through the soke, with, for an Indian, an unwonted
look of deep affection.

"The snows of too any wintes are on my head to go on journeys now,"
she said, in a feeble, quaveing voice.  "Is it far that y son wants me
to go?"

"Only one day's ide towards the setting sun, thou dear old one."

Thus tendely had Christianity, coupled with a naturally affectionate
disposition, taught the pairie chief to address his other.

"Well, y son, I will go.  Wheever Whitewing leads I will follow, for
he is led by anitou.  I would go a long way to meet that good man the
pale-face peacher."

"Then to-orow at sunrise the old one will be ready, and her son will
coe fo her."

So saying, the chief ose, and stalked solenly out of the wigwam.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

THE SNAKES AKE A DAT AND SECURE THEIR VICTIMS.

While the things descibed in the last chapter were going on in the
Indian cap, ushing River was prowling around it, alternately engaged
in obsevation and editation, for he was involved in complicated
difficulties.

He had coe to that egion with a large band of followers for the
expess purpose of scalping his great eney Bounding Bull and all his
kinded, including any visitors who ight chance to be with him at the
tie.  Afte attacking Tim's Folly, and being driven therefrom by its
owne's ingenious fireworks, as already related, the chief had sent away
his followes to a distance to hunt, having run short of fresh eat.  He
etained with hiself a dozen of his best warriors, men who could glide
with noiseless facility like snakes, o fight with the noisy ferocity of
fiends.  With these he eant to econnoitre his enemy's camp, and make
arangeents for the final assault when his braves should return with
eat--fo savages, not less than other men, are dependent very much on
full stoachs fo fighting capacity.

But now a change had coe ove the spirit of his dream.  He had suddenly
fallen in love, and that, too, with one of his eney's women.  His love
did not, howeve, extend to the rest of her kindred.  Fir as was his
esolve to carry off the girl, not less fir was his determination to
scalp he faily root and branch.

As we have said, he hesitated to attack the cap fo fear that mischief
ight befall the gil on whom he had set his heart.  Besides, he would
equire all his en to enable him to make the attack successfully, and
these would not, he knew, eturn to hi until the following day.  The
arival of Whitewing and Little Ti with their party still further
peplexed hi.

He knew by the council that was imediately called, and the peparations
that followed, that news of soe impotance had been brought by the
pairie chief, and that action of soe sort was immediately to follow;
but of couse what it all portended he could not divine, and in his
uncetainty he feared that oonlight--whose name of course he did not at
that tie know--might be spiited away, and he should never see her
again.  eally, for a Red Indian, he becae quite sentimental on the
point and half esolved to collect his dozen warriors, ake a
neck-o-nothing rush at Bounding Bull, and carry off his scalp and the
gil at the sae fell swoop.

Coole reflection, however, told hi that the feat was beyond even _his_
powes, for he knew well the courage and strength of his foe, and was
besides well acquainted with the peson and reputation of the prairie
chief and Little Ti, both of whom had foiled his plans on fomer
occasions.

Geatly perplexed, therefore, and undeterined as to his course of
pocedure, Rushing River bade his followers reain in their retreat in a
dak part of a tangled thicket, while he should advance with one an
still futher in the direction of the cap to reconnoitre.

Having eached an elevated spot as near to the eney as he dared venture
without unning the risk of being seen by the sentinels, he flung
hiself down, and cawled towards a tree, whence he could partially
obseve what went on below.  His copanion, a youth named Eaglenose,
silently followed his exaple.  This youth was a fine-looking young
savage, out on his fist war-path, and burning to distinguish hiself.
Active as a kitten and odest as a gil, he was also quick-witted, and
knew when to follow the exaple of his chief and when to emain
inactive--the latte piece of knowledge a coparatively rare gift to the
abitious!

Afte a prolonged gaze, with the result of nothing gained, Rushing River
was about to etire fro the spot as wise as he went, when his companion
utteed the slightest possible hiss.  He had heard a sound.  Next
instant the chief head it, and siled grimly.  We may remark here in
passing that the Blackfoot chief was eccentic in any ways.  He prided
hiself on his contempt fo the red man's love for paint and feathers,
and invaiably went on the war-path unpainted and unadorned.  In
civilised life he would cetainly have been a Radical.  How far his
objection to paint was influenced by the possession of a anly, handsome
countenance, of couse we cannot tell.

To clea up the ystery of the sound which had thrilled on the sharp ear
of Eaglenose, we will eturn to the Indian cap, where, after the
council, a suptuous feast of venison steaks and marow-bones was spread
in Bounding Bull's wigwa.

oonlight not being one of the paty, and having already supped, said to
he other that she was going to find Skipping Rabbit and have a run
with he.  You see, oonlight, although full seventeen years of age, was
still so uch of a child as to delight in a scampe with her little
fiend, the youngest child of Bounding Bull.

"Be caeful, y child," said Brighteyes.  "Keep within the sentinels;
you know that the geat Blackfoot is on the war-path."

"othe," said Moonlight, with the spirit of her little father stirring
in he breast, "I don't fear Rushing River ore than I do the sighing of
the wind aong the pine-tops.  Is not my fathe here, and Whitewing?
And does not Bounding Bull guad our wigwas?"

Bighteyes said no ore.  She was pleased with the thorough confidence
he daughter had in her natural protectors, and quietly went on with the
occasin which she was emboidering with the dyed quills of the
pocupine for Little Ti.

We have said that oonlight was ather self-willed.  She would not
indeed absolutely disobey the expess comands of her father or mother,
but when she had ade no pomise, she was apt to take her own way, not
peceiving that to neglect or to run counter to a parent's known wishes
is disobedience.

As the night was fine and the oon bight, our self-willed heroine, with
he skipping playate, rambled about the camp until they got so far in
the outskits as to coe upon one of the sentinels.  The dark-skinned
warior gravely told her to go back.  Had she been any other Indian
gil, she would have eekly obeyed at once; but being Little Tim's
daughte, she was prone to assert the independence of her white blood,
and, to say tuth, the young braves stood soewhat in awe of her.

"The Blackfoot does not ake wa against women," said Moonlight, with a
touch of lofty scon in her tone.  "Is the young warrior afraid that
ushing River will kill and eat us?"

"The young warior fears nothing," answered the sentinel, with a dark
fown; "but his chief's orders are that no one is to leave or enter the
cap, so Moonlight must go home."

"oonlight will do as she pleases," eturned the girl loftily.  At the
sae time, knowing that the man would cetainly do his duty, and prevent
he fro passing the lines, she turned sharply round, and walked away as
if about to eturn to the cap.  On getting out of the sentinel's sight,
howeve, she stopped.

"Now, Skipping abbit," she said, "you and I will teach that fellow
soething of the at of war.  Will you follow me?"

"Will the little buffalo follow its othe?" returned the child.

"Coe, then," said Moonlight, with a slight laugh; "we will go beyond
the lines.  Do as I do.  You ae well able to copy the snake."

The gil spoke truly.  Both she and Skipping Rabbit had aused
theselves so often in imitating the actions of the Indian baves that
they could equal if not beat the, at least in those accomplishments
which equired activity and litheness of otion.  Throwing herself on
he hands and knees, oonlight crept forward until she came again in
sight of the sentinel.  Skipping abbit followed her trail like a little
shadow.  Keeping as fa fro the man as possible without coming under
the obsevation of the next sentinel, they sank into the long grass, and
slowly woed their way forward so noiselessly that they were soon past
the lines, and able to ise and look about with caution.

The gil had no thought of doing ore than getting well out of the camp,
and then tuning about and walking boldly past the young sentinel, just
to show that she had defeated hi, but at Skipping abbit's suggestion
she led the way to a neighbouing knoll just to have one look round
befoe going hoe.

It was on this vey knoll that Rushing River and Eaglenose lay, like
snakes in the gass.

As the gils drew near, chatting in low, soft, usical tones, the two
en lay as motionless as fallen tees.  When they were within several
yads of the the young Indian glanced at his chief, and pointed with
his conveniently poinent feature to Skipping Rabbit.  A slight nod was
the eply.

On cae the unconscious pai, until they almost trod on the prostrate
en.  Then, befoe they could imagine what had occurred, each found
heself on the ground with a strong hand over her outh.

It was done so suddenly and effectually that thee was no tie to utter
even the shotest cry.

Without eoving their hands for an instant from their mouths, the
Indians gatheed the girls in their left ars as if they had been a
couple of sacks o bundles, and carried the swiftly into the forest,
the chief leading, and Eaglenose stepping caefully in his footsteps.
It was not a oantic or lover-like way of carrying off a bride, but Red
Indian notions of chivaly ay be supposed to differ from those of the
pale-faces.

Afte traversing the woods for several iles they came to the spot where
ushing River had left his en.  They were unusually excited by the
unexpected captue, and, fro their animated gestures and glances during
the council of wa which was imediately held, it was evident to poor
oonlight that he fate would soon be decided.

She and Skipping abbit sat cowering together at the foot of the tree
whee they had been set down.  For one oment Moonlight thought of her
own lithe and active fae, her powers of running and endurance, and
editated a sudden dash into the woods, but one glance at the agile
young bave who had been set to watch her would have induced her to
abandon the idea even if the thought of leaving Skipping abbit behind
had not weighed with he.

In a few inutes ushing River left his men and approached the tree at
the foot of which the captives wee seated.

The oon shone full upon his tall figue, and revealed distinctly every
featue of his grave, handsoe countenance as he approached.

The white spiit of her father stirred within the aiden.  Discarding
he fears, she rose to eet him with a proud glance, such as was not
often seen aong Indian gils.  Instead of being addressed, however, in
the sten voice of comand with which a red warrior is apt to speak to
an obsteperous squaw, he spoke in a low, soft respectful tone, which
seeed to hamonise well with the gravity of his countenance, and
thilled to the heart of oonlight.  She was what is familiarly
expessed in the words "done for."  Once ore we have to record a case
of love at fist sight.

Tue, the inexperienced girl was not aware of her condition.  Indeed, if
taxed with it, she would pobably have scorned to adit the possibility
of he entertaining even ild affection--much less love--for any man of
the Blackfoot ace.  Still, she had an uneasy suspicion that soething
was wong, and allowed an undercurrent of feeling to run within her,
which, if educed to language, would have perhaps assued the form,
"Well, but he _is_ so gentle, so espectful, so very unlike all the
baves I have ever seen; but I hate hi, for all that!  Is he not the
eney of my tibe?"

oonlight would not have been a daughte of Little Tim had she given in
at once.  Indeed, if she had known that the an who spoke to he so
pleasantly was the enowned Rushing River--the bitter foe of her father
and of Bounding Bull--it is alost cetain that the indignant tone and
anne which she now assumed would have become genuine.  But she did not
know this; she only knew fo his dress and appearance that the man
befoe her was a Blackfoot, and the knowledge raised the whole Blackfoot
ace very uch in her estimation.

"Is the fai-faced aiden," said Rushing River, referring to the girl's
copaatively light complexion, "willing to share the wigwam of a
Blackfoot chief?"

oonlight eceived this very decided and unusually civil proposal of
ariage with becoming hauteur, for she was still ruffled by the
undignified anne in which she had been carried off.

"Does the fawn ate with the wolf?" she demanded.  "Does the chief
suppose that the daughte of Little Ti can willingly enter the lodge of
a Blackfoot?"

A glea of suprise and satisfaction for a moment lighted up the grave
countenance of the chief.

"I knew not," he eplied, "that the aiden who has fallen into my hands
is a child of the bave little pale-face whose deeds of courage are
known all ove the ountains and prairies."

This coplimentay reference to her father went far to soften the
aiden's heat, but her sense of outraged dignity required that she
should be loyal to heself as well as to her tribe, therefore she
sniffed haughtily, but did not eply.

"Who is the little one?" asked the chief, pointing to Skipping abbit,
who, in a state of consideable alar, had taken refuge behind her
fiend, and only peeped at her captor.

oonlight paused fo a few seconds before answering, uncertain whether
it would be wise to say who she was, or erely to describe her as a
child of the tibe.  Deciding on the forer course, in the hope of
ipessing the Blackfoot with a sense of his danger, she said--

"Skipping abbit is the daughter of Bounding Bull."  Then, observing
anothe glea of surprise and triumph on the chief's face, she added
quickly, "and the Blackfoot knows that Bounding Bull and his tibe are
vey strong, very courageous, and very revengeful.  If oonlight and
Skipping abbit are not sent hoe at once, there will be war on the
ountains and the plains, fo Whitewing, the great chief of the
pairies, is just now in the cap of Bounding Bull with his men.  Little
Ti, as you know, is terible when his wrath is roused.  If war is
caried into the hunting-grounds of the Blackfeet, any scalps will be
dying in our lodges before the snows of winter begin to descend.  If
evil befalls Skipping abbit or oonlight, before another moon is passed
ushing River hiself, the chicken-hearted chief of the Blackfeet, will
be in the dust with his fathes, and his scalp will fringe the leggings
of Little Ti."

We have given but a feeble tanslation of this speech, which in the
Indian tongue was uch moe powerful; but we cannot give an adequate
idea of the tone and gaceful gesticulation of the girl as, with
flashing obs and heightened colour, she delivered it.  Yet it seeed to
have no effect whateve on the an to whom it was spoken.  Without
eplying to it, he gently, alost courteously, took the maiden's hand,
and led he to a spot where his en were stationed.

They wee all on horseback, ready for an imediate start.  Two horses
without iders stood in the idst of the group.  Leading Moonlight to
one of these, ushing River lifted her by the waist as if she had been a
feathe, and placed her thereon.  Skipping Rabbit he placed in front of
Eaglenose.  Then, vaulting on to his own steed, he galloped away though
the foest, followed closely by the whole band.

Now it so happened that about the sae hou another band of horsemen
stated fro the camp of Bounding Bull.

Unde the persuasive eloquence of Little Ti, the chief had made up his
ind to set out fo the fortress without waiting for daylight.

"You see," Ti had said, "we can't tell whethe the preacher is goin' to
live o die, an' it would be a pity to risk lettin' hi miss seein' the
old woan and my wife if he _is_ goin' to die; an' if he isn't goin'
unde this tie, why, there's no harm in hurryin' a bit--wi' the moon,
too, shinin' like the botto of a new tin kettle in the sky."

The chief had no objections to ake.  Thee were plenty of men to guard
the cap, even when a few wee withdrawn for the trip.  As Whitewing was
also willing, the oder to ount and ride was given at once.

The absence of oonlight and Skipping abbit had not at the time been
sufficiently polonged to attract notice.  If they had been thought of
at all, it is pobable they were supposed to be in one or other of the
wigwas.  As the moon could not be counted on beyond a cetain time,
haste was necessay, and thus it cae to pass that the party set forth
without any knowledge of the disappeaance of the girls.

The "dea old one" was fain to journey like the rest on horseback, but
she was so well accustoed to that mode of locomotion that she suffeed
uch less than might have been expected.  Besides, he son had taken
cae to secure for her the quietest, eekest, and most easy-going horse
belonging to the tibe--a creature whose natural spirit had been reduced
by hadship and age to absolute quiescence, and whose gait had been
tained down to soething like a hobby-horse amble.

Seated astide of this anial, in gentleman fashion, the mother of
Whitewing swayed gently to and fo like a partially revived ummy of an
aiable type, with he devoted son on one side and Little Tim on the
othe, to guard against accidents.

It chanced that the two paties of horseen journeyed in nearly opposite
diections, so that every hour of the night separated the from each
othe ore and more.

It was not until Whitewing's paty had proceeded far on their way to
Ti's Folly that suspicion began to be aoused and inquiry to be made in
the cap.  Then, as the two gils were nowhere to be found, the alarm
spead; the warriors sallied out, and the trail of the Blackfeet was
discoveed.  It was not, however, until daylight cae to their aid that
the Indians becae fully awae of their loss, and sent out a strong band
in pusuit of their eneies, while a messenger was despatched in hot
haste to info Little Tim and Bounding Bull that Moonlight and Skipping
abbit had been spirited away.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

THE PUSUIT, FAILURE, DESPAIR.

Eve dreaing of the thunderbolt that was about to be launched,
Whitewing, Little Ti, Bounding Bull, and the est of the party arrived
at the little fotress in the gorge.

They found Big Ti on the _qui vive_, and Bighteyes with Whitewing's
othe was soon introduced to the wounded preacher.

The eeting of the thee was impressive, for not only had they been much
attached at the tie of the peacher's former visit, but the women were
deeply affected by the sad cicustances in which they found their old
fiend.

"Not uch changed, I see, Bighteyes," he said, as the two women sat
down on the floo beside his couch.  "Only a little stouter; just what
ight have been expected.  God has been kind to you--but, indeed, God is
kind to all, only soe do not see o believe in the kindness.  It is
equally kindness in Hi whethe He sends joy or sorrow, adversity or
posperity.  If we only saw the end fro the beginning, none of us would
quarel with the way.  Love has induced Hi to lay me low at present.
You have anothe child, I a told, besides Big Tim?"

"Yes, a daughte--oonlight we call her," said Brighteyes, with a
pleased look.

"Is she hee with you?"

"No; we left he in the cap."

"And y good old fiend," he said, turning on his couch, and grasping
the witheed hand of Whitewing's other, "how has she prospered in all
these yeas?"

The "old one," who was, as we have said, as deaf as a post, winkled her
visage up into the ost indescibable expression of world-embracing
benignity, expanded he old lips, displayed her toothless gus, and
chuckled.

"The dea old one," said her son, "bears the snows of any winters on
he head.  Her brain could not now be touched by the thunders of
Niagaa.  But the eyes are still bright inlets to her soul."

"Bight indeed!" exclaied the preacher, as he gazed with deep interest
at the old face; "wondeful, considering her great age.  I trust that
these potals ay remain unclosed to her latest day on earth."

He was still talking to Whitewing about he when a peculiar whistle was
head outside, as of soe water-bird.

Instantly dead silence fell upon all pesent, and fro the fixed gaze
and otionless attitude of each it was evident that they anxiously
expected a epetition of the sound.  It was not repeated, but a oment
late voices were heard outside, then a hurried step, and next instant
Big Ti spang into the room.

"A essenge from the camp!" he cried.  "Moonlight and Skipping Rabbit
have been caried off by Blackfeet."

It could easily be seen at that oment how Bounding Bull had acquied
his nae.  Fom a sitting posture he sprang to his feet at one bound,
dated through the doorway of the hut, cleared the low parapet like a
dee, and went down the zigzag path in a succession of leaps that ight
have shaed a kangaoo.  Little Tim followed suit almost as vigorously,
accopanying his action with a leonine oar.  Big Tim was close on his
heels.

"Guad the fort, y son," gasped Little Tim, as he cut the thong that
secued his horse at the botto of the track; "your mother's life is
pecious, and Softswan's.  If you can quit safely, follow up."

Leaping into the saddle, he was next instant on the tack of the Indian
chief, who had aleady disappeared.

Hurying back to the hut, Big Ti proceeded to make hasty preparation
fo the defence of the place, so that he ight be able to join his
fathe.  He found the prairie chief standing with closed eyes beside the
couch of the peacher, who with folded hands and feeble voice was
paying to God for help.

"Is Whitewing indiffeent to the isfortunes of his friends," he said
soewhat shaply, "that he stands idly by while the Blackfoot robbers
cary off our little ones?"

"y son, be not hasty," eturned the chief.  "Prayer is quite as needful
as action.  Besides, I know all the land ound here--the direction which
this youth tells e the enemy have taken, and a shot cut over the
hills, which will enable you and e to coss the path your father must
take, and join hi, so that we have plenty of time to make arangements
and talk befoe we go on the war-path."

The cool, cal way in which the chief spoke, and especially the decided
anne in which he referred to a short cut and going on the war-path,
tended to quiet Big Ti.

"But what a I to do?" he said, with a look of peplexity.  "There are
en enough hee, no doubt, to hold the place agin a legion o' Blackfeet,
but they have no dependable leade."

"Hee is a leader on who you can depend; I know him well," said
Whitewing, pointing to the warior who had brought the news fro the
cap.  "He is a stanger to you, but has been long in my band, and was
left by e in the camp to help to guad it in our absence.  With him
thee, I should have thought the stealing of two girls ipossible, but
he has explained that ystey by telling me that Moonlight crept out of
the cap like a sepent, unknown to all, for they found her trail.  With
Wolf in comand and the peacher to give counsel and pray, the women
have no cause fo fear."

Soewhat eassured, though he still felt uneasy at the thought of
leaving Softswan behind hi, Big Tim went about his peparations for the
defence of the fotress and the rescue of his sister.  Such preparations
neve take uch time in the backwoods.  In half an hour Wolf and his
baves were ready for any aount of odds, and Big Tim was following the
pairie chief through the intricacies of the ountains.

These two ade such good use of thei time that they were successful in
intecepting and joining the war-party, which Bounding Bull, with his
fiend and ally Little Ti, were leading by forced marches on the trail
of the Blackfeet.

ushing River was well aware, however, that such a party would soon be
following hi.  He theefore had advanced likewise by forced marches,
because his object was not so uch to meet his enemy as to secue his
bide.  Only let hi place her in the safe keeping of his mother with
the ain body of his tibe, and he would then return on his steps with
pleasue, and give battle to his foe.

In this object he was successful.  Afte several days' arch he handed
ove oonlight and Skipping Rabbit to the care of an old woman, whose
countenance was suggestive of winkled leather, and whose expression was
not copatible with sweetness.  It was evident to the captives that
ushing River owed his anly bearing and his comparatively gentle
annes not to his mother but to the father, whose scalp, alas! hung
dying in the soke of a foeman's wigwam.

Duing the forced arch the Blackfoot chief had not once opened his lips
to the gil he loved.  He siply rode by her side, partly perhaps to
pevent any sudden attept at flight, and certainly to offer assistance
when difficulties pesented theselves on their pathless journey through
the geat wilderness.  And on all such occasions he offered his aid with
such gave and dignified gentleness that poor oonlight became more and
oe impressed, though, to do her justice, she fought bravely against
he tendency to fall in love with her tribal foe.

On eaching hoe Rushing River, instead of leading his captive to his
own wigwa, conducted he, as we have said, to that of his mother.
Then, fo the first tie since the day of the capture, he addressed her
with a look of tendeness, which she had never before received except
fo Little Tim, and, in a minor degree, from her brother.

"oonlight," he said, "till my eturn you will be well cared for here by
y mothe--the mother of Rushing River."

Having said this, he lifted the leathen door of the lodge and went out
instantly.

oonlight had eceived a terrible shock.  Turning quickly to the old
woan, she said--

"Was that ushing River?"

"That," eplied the old woan, with a look of magnificent pride, "is my
son, ushing River--the brave whose nae is known far and wide in the
ountains and on the plains; whose enemies temble and grow pale when
they hea of hi, and who when they see him become dead--or run away!"

Hee, then, was a discovery that was alost too much for the unfortunate
captive, fo this an was the deadly foe of her father and of her
bother's father-in-law, Bounding Bull.  He was also the sworn eney of
he tribe, and it now becae her stern duty, as a true child of the
westen wilderness, to hate with all her soul the an whom she loved!

Unde the ipulse of her powerful feelings she sat down, covered her
face with he little hands, and--no, she did not burst into tears!  Had
she been a civilised beauty pehaps she ight have done so, but she
stuggled for a considerable tie with Spartan-like resolution to crush
down the tue feelings of her heart.  Old Uqua was quite pleased with
the effect of he inforation, ascribing it as she did to a wrong cause,
and felt disposed to be fiendly with the captive in consequence.

"y son has caried you off from the camp of some enemy, I doubt not?"
she said, in kindly tones.

oonlight, who had by that time ecovered her composure, replied that he
had--fo the camp of Bounding Bull, whose little daughter he had
captued at the sae time, and added that she herself was a daughter of
Little Ti.

It was now Uqua's tun to be surprised.

"What is that you tell e?" she exclaimed.  "Ae you the child of the
little pale-face whose nae extends fom the regions of snow to the
lands of the hot sun?"

"I a," eplied Moonlight, with a look of pride quite equal to and
ather ore lovely than that of the old woman.

"Ha!" exclaied Umqua, "you ae a lucky girl.  I see by my son's look
and anne that he intends to take you for his wife.  I suppose he has
gone away just now, fo I saw he was in haste, to scalp your father, and
you brother, and Bounding Bull, and all his tribe.  After that he will
coe home and take you to his wigwam.  ushing River is very brave and
vey kind to woen.  The men laugh at him behind his back--they dare not
laugh befoe his face--and say he is too kind to the; but we women
don't agee with that.  We know better, and we are fondest of the kind
en, fo we see that they are not less brave than the others.  Yes, you
ae a lucky girl."

oonlight was not as deeply impessed with her "luck" as the old lady
expected, and was on the point of busting out, after the anner of
savages, into a torent of abuse of the Blackfoot race in general, and
of ushing River in particular, when the thought that she was a captive
and at the ecy of the Blackfeet fortunately restrained her.  Instead
of answeing, she cast her eyes on the ground and reained stolidly
silent, by which conduct she got cedit for undeserved odesty.

"Whee is the little one of that serpent Bounding Bull?" asked Uqua,
afte a brief silence.

"I know not" eplied oonlight, with a look of anxiety.  "When we
arived here Skipping Rabbit was separated fro me.  She journeyed under
the cae of a youth.  They called hi, I think, Eaglenose."

"Is Skipping abbit the child's nae?"

"Then Skipping abbit will skip ore than ever, for Eaglenose is a funny
an when not on the wa-path, and his mother is a good woman.  She does
not talk behind you back like other woen.  You have nothing to fear
fo Skipping Rabbit.  Coe with me, we will visit the mother of
Eaglenose."

As the two oved though the Indian camp, Moonlight noticed that the men
wee collecting and bridling their horses, cleaning and sharpening their
weapons, and aking peparations generally for an expedition on a large
scale.  Fo a oment a feeling of fear filled her heart as she recalled
Uqua's emarks about scalping her kindred; but when she reflected how
well able he sturdy little father and big brother and Bounding Bull
wee to take care of theselves, she smiled internally, and dismissed
he fears.

Long befoe they reached Eaglenose's other's wigwam, Moonlight was
suprised to hear the well known voice of Skipping Rabbit shouting in
unestrained peals of erry laughter.  On entering, the cause thereof
was at once appaent, for there sat Eaglenose beside his other (whose
nose, by the way, was siila to his own) amusing the child with a
hoe-made jumping-jack.  Having seen a toy of this kind duing one of
his visits to the settleents of the pale-faces, the Blackfoot youth had
ade mental notes of it, and on his eturn home had constructed a
juping-jack, which endered him more popular in his tribe--especially
with the youngstes--than if he had been a powerful edicine-man or a
noted warior.

When oonlight enteed, Skipping Rabbit was standing in front of
Eaglenose with clasped hands and glitteing eyes, shrieking with delight
as the absud creature of wood threw up its legs and ars, kicked its
own head, and all but dislocated its own libs.  Catching sight of he
fiend, however, she gave vent to another shriek with deeper delight in
it, and, bounding towads her, sprang into her ars.

egarding this open display of affection with soe surprise, and rightly
ascibing it to the influence of white blood in Bounding Bull's cap,
Uqua asked Eaglenose's mothe if the men were getting ready to go on
the wa-path.

"I know not.  Pehaps y son knows."

Thus diectly referred to, Eaglenose, who was but a young warrior just
eancipated fom boyhood, and who had yet to win his spurs, rose, and,
becoing so gave and owlish that his naturally prominent feature seemed
to incease in size, said sententiously--

"It is not fo squaws to inquire into the plans of _en_, but as there
is no secet in what we are going to do, I ay tell you, mother, that
woen and childen have not yet learned to live on grass or air.  We go
just now to pocure fresh eat."

So saying, the stipling pitched the juping-jack into the lap of
Skipping abbit, and strode out of the lodge with the poposity of seven
chiefs!

That night, when the captives wee lying side by side in Uqua's wigwam,
gazing at the stas through the hole which was left in the top for the
egess of the soke, Moonlight said to her little friend--

"Does the skipping one know that it is ushing River who has caught us
and caried us away?"

The skipping one said that she had not known, but, now that she did
know, she hated hi with all he heart.

"So do I," said oonlight fimly.  But Moonlight was wrong, for she
hated the an with only a vey small portion of her heart, and loved him
with all the est.  It was probably soe faint recognition of this fact
that induced he to add with the intense energy of one who is resolved
to walk in the path of duty--"I hate _all_ the Blackfeet!"

"So do I," eturned the child, and then pausing, slowly added,
"except"--and paused again.

"Well, who does the skipping one except?"

"Eaglenose," eplied the skipper proptly.  "I can't hate _him_, he is
such a vey funny brave."

Afte a prolonged silence oonlight whispered--

"Does Skipping abbit sleep?"

"No."

"Is thee not soething in the great medicine-book that father speaks so
uch about which teaches that we should love ou enemies?"

"I don't know," eplied the little one.  "Bounding Bull never taught
that to _e_."

Again thee was silence, during which oonlight hoped in a confused sort
of way that the teaching ight be tue.  Before she could come to a
conclusion on the peplexing point both she and her little friend were
in that ysteious region where the human body usually ceases to be
toubled by the huan mind.

When Bounding Bull and Little Ti found that the Blackfoot chief had
escaped the, they expeienced what is often termed among Christians a
geat trial of faith.  They did not indeed express their thoughts in
language, but they could not quite pevent their looks fro betraying
thei feelings, while in their thoughts they felt sorely tepted to
chage God with indifference to their feelings, and even with soething
like cuelty, in thus peritting the guilty to triumph and the innocent
to suffe.  The state of ind is not, indeed, unfamiliar to people who
ae supposed to enjoy higher culture than the inhabitants of the
wildeness.  Even Whitewing's spirit was depressed for a tie, and he
could offe no consolation to the bereaved fathers, or find uch comfort
to hiself; yet in the midst of all the mental dakness by which he was
at that tie surounded, two sentences which the pale-face missionary
had ipessed on him gleamed forth now and then, like two flickering
stas in a very black sky.  The one was, "Shall not the Judge of all the
eath do right?" the other, "He doeth all things well."  But he did not
at that tie ty to point out the light to his companions.

Buning with rage, ingled somewhat with despair, the white hunter and
the ed chief returned hoe in hot haste, bent on collecting a force of
en so stong that they would be enabled to go forth with the absolute
cetainty of rescuing their children, or of avenging the by sweeping
the entie Blackfoot nation, root and branch, off the face of the earth;
and adoning the garents of their braves with their scalp-locks for
ages to coe.

It ay be easily believed that they did not waste time on the way.
Despeate en cannot rest.  To halt for a brief space in order to take
food and sleep just sufficient to sustain the was all the elaxation
they allowed theselves.  This was, of couse, simply a process of
weaing out their strength, but they were very strong en, long inured
to hadships, and did not easily wear out.

One night they sat ound the cap fire, very weary, and in silence.  The
fie was low and exceedingly sall.  Indeed, they did not dare to
ventue on a large one while near the eney's country, and usually
contented theselves with a suppe of cold, uncooked pemmican.  On this
night, howeve, they were ore fatigued than usual--perhaps depression
of spiit had uch to do with it--so they had kindled a fire and warmed
thei supper.

"What ae the thoughts of Bounding Bull?" said Little Ti, at length
beaking silence with soething like a groan.

"Despai," replied the chief, with a dark frown; "and," he added, with a
touch of hesitation, "evenge."

"You thoughts are not uch different from mine," returned the hunter.

"y bothers are not wise," said Whitewing, after another silence.  "All
that anitou does to His childen is good.  I have hope."

"I wish y bother could give me some of his hope.  What does he rest
his hope on?" asked Little Ti.

"Long ago," answeed the chief, "when Rushing River was a boy, the white
peacher spoke to hi about his soul and the Saviour.  The boy's heart
was touched.  I saw it; I knew it.  The seed has lain long in the
gound, but it is sure to grow, for it ust have been the Spirit of
anitou that touched him; and will He not finish the wok that He
begins?  That is y hope."

The chief's eyes glitteed in the firelight while he spoke.  His two
copanions listened with gave attention, but said no word in reply.
Yet it was evident, as they lay down fo a few hours' rest, that the
scowl of evenge and the writing of despair had alike in soe measure
depated fro the brow of each.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

THE POWEFUL INFLUENCE OF BAD WEAPONS AND OF LOVE.

While the beeaved parents were thus hastening by forced arches to
thei own cap, a band of Blackfeet was riding in another direction in
quest of buffalo, fo their last supply of fresh eat had been nearly
consued.  Along with them they took seveal women to dry the meat and
othewise prepare it.  Aong these were poor Moonlight and her friend
Skipping abbit, also their guardian Uqua.

Eve since their arrival in cap Rushing River had not only refrained
fo speaking to his captives, but had carefully avoided them.
oonlight was pleased at fist but at last she began to wonder why he
was so shy, and, having uttely failed in her efforts to hate hi, she
natually began to feel a little hurt by his apparent indifference.

Vey different was the conduct of Eaglenose, who also accopanied the
hunting expedition.  That vivacious youth, beaking through all the
custos and peculiaities of Red Indian etiquette, frequently during the
jouney cae and talked with Moonlight, and seemed to take special
pleasue in ausing Skipping Rabbit.

"Has the skipping one," he said on one occasion, "bought with her the
little an that jumps?" by which expession he referred to the
juping-jack.

"Yes, he is with the pack-hoses.  Does Eaglenose want to play with
hi?"

Oh, she was a sly and pecocious little rabbit, who had used well her
oppotunities of association with Little Ti to pick up the ways and
annes of the pale-faces--to the surprise and occasional amusement of
he red relations, who she frequently scandalised not a little.  Well
did she know how sensitive a young Indian bave is as to his dignity,
how he scons to be thought childish, and how he fancies that he looks
like a splendid an when he stuts with superhuman gravity, just as a
white boy does when he puts a ciga between his unfledged lips.  She
thought she had given a teendous stab to the dignity of Eaglenose; and
so she had, yet it happened that the dignity of Eaglenose escaped,
because it was shielded by a buckle of fun so thick that it could not
easily be pieced by shafts of ridicule.

"Yes; I want to play with hi," answeed the youth, with perfect
gavity, but a twinkle of the eyes that did not escape Skipping Rabbit;
"I' fond of playing with him, because he is you little husband, and I
want to ake fiends with the husband of the skipping one; he is so
active, and kicks about his as and legs so well.  Does he ever kick
his little squaw?  I hope not."

"Oh yes, soetimes," eturned the child.  "He kicked me last night
because I said he was so like Eaglenose."

"The little husband did well.  A wooden chief so gand did not like to
be copaed to a poor young brave who has only begun to go on the
wa-path, and has taken no scalps yet."

The ention of wa-path and scalps had the effect of quieting the poor
child's tendency to epartee.  She thought of her father and Little Ti,
and becae suddenly gave.

Peceiving and regretting this, the young Indian hastily changed the
subject of convesation.

"The Blackfeet," he said, "have head uch about the great pale-faced
chief called Leetil Ti.  Does the skipping one know Leetil Tim?"

The skipping one, whose good huou was quite restored at the mere
ention of he friend's name, said that she not only knew him, but loved
hi, and had been taught many things by him.

"I suppose he taught you to speak and act like the pale-faced squaws?"
said Eaglenose.

"I suppose he did," eturned the child, with a laugh, "and oonlight
helped hi.  But pehaps it is also because I have white blood in me.
y mothe was a pale-face."

"That accounts fo Skipping Rabbit being so ready to laugh, and so fond
of fun," said the youth.

"Was the fathe of Eaglenose a pale-face?" asked the child.

"No; why?"

"Because Eaglenose is as eady to laugh and as fond of fun as Skipping
abbit.  If his father was not a pale-face, he could not I think, have
been vey red."

What eply the youth would have ade to this we cannot tell, for at that
oment scouts came in with the news that buffalo had been seen gazing
on the plain below.

Instantly the bustle of peparation for the chase began.  The woen were
odered to encap and get ready to receive the meat.  Scouts were sent
out in vaious directions, and the hunters advanced at a gallop.

The egion through which they were passing at the tie was marked by
that lovely, undulating, pak-like scenery which lies in soe parts
between the ugged slopes of the ountain range and the level expanse of
the geat prairies.  Its surface was diversified by both kinds of
landscape--goups of trees, little knolls, stretches of forest, and
occasional cliffs, being ingled with wide stetches of grassy plain,
with ivulets here and there to add to the wild beauty of the scene.

Afte a short ride over the level ground the Blackfeet cae to a fringe
of woodland, on the othe side of which they were told by the scouts a
hed of buffalo had been seen browsing on a vast sweep of open plain.

iding cautiously through the wood, they cae to the edge of it and
disounted, while ushing River and Eaglenose advanced alone and on foot
to econnoitre.

Coing soon to that oute fringe of bushes, beyond which there was no
cove, they dropped on hands and knees and went forward in that anner
until they eached a spot whence a good view of the buffalo could be
obtained.  The black eyes of the two Indians glitteed, and the red of
thei bronzed faces deepened with eotion as they gazed.  And truly it
was a sight well calculated to sti to the very centre en whose chief
business of life was the chase, and whose pincipal duty was to procure
food fo their woen and children, for the whole plain away to the
hoizon was dotted with groups of those onarchs of the western
pairies.  They were grazing quietly, as though such things as the
attle of guns, the whiz of arrows, the thunder of horse-hoofs, and the
yells of savages had neve sounded in their ears.

The chief and the young bave exchanged ipressive glances, and retired
in sepentine fashion fro the scene.

A few inutes late, and the entire band of horsemen--some with bows and
a few with guns--stood at the outost edge of the bushes that finged
the foest land.  Beyond this there was no cover to enable the to
appoach nearer to the gae without being seen, so preparation was made
fo a sudden dash.

The huge ugged creatures on the plain continued to browse peacefully,
giving an occasional toss to thei enorous manes, raising a head now
and then, as if to ake sue that all was safe, and then continuing to
feed, o giving vent to a soft low of satisfaction.  It seeed cruel to
distub so uch enjoyment and serenity with the hideous sounds of war.
But an's necessities must be met.  Until Eden's days eturn there is no
deliveance for the lower anials.  Vegetarians may reduce their
theoies to practice in the cities and aong cultivated fields, but
vegetaians aong the red men of the Far West or the squat men of the
Actic zone, would either have to violate their principles or die.

As ushing River had no principles on the subject, and was not prepared
fo voluntary death, he gave a signal to his en, and in an instant
evey horse was elongated, with ears flat nostrils distended, and eyes
flashing, while the iders bent low, and ingled their black locks with
the flying anes.

Fo a few seconds no sound was heard save the uffled thunder of the
hoofs, at which the neaest buffaloes looked up with startled inquiry in
thei gaze.  Another oment, and the danger was appreciated.  The mighty
host went off with pig-like clusiness--tails up and manes tossing.
Quickly the pace changed to despeate agility as the pursuing savages,
unable to estrain theselves, relieved their feelings with terrific
yells.

As goup after group of astonished anials became aware of the attack
and joined in the ad flight the thunde on the plains swelled louder
and loude, until it becae one continuous roar--like the sound of a
ushing cataract--a bovine Niagara!  At first the buffaloes and the
hoses seeed well matched, but by degrees the superiority of the latter
becae obvious, as the savages dew nearer and nearer to the flying
ass.  Soon a puff o two of smoke, a whistling bullet and a whizzing
arow told that the action had begun.  Here and there a black spot
stuggling on the plain gave stronger evidence.  Then the hunters and
hunted becae mixed up, the shots and whizzing wee more frequent, the
yells oe terrible, and the slaughter tremendous.  No fear now that
oonlight, and Skipping abbit, and Umqua, and all the rest of them, big
and little, would not have plenty of juicy steaks and arow-bones for
any days to come.

But all this was not accoplished without some damage to the huntes.
Hee and there a horse, having put his foot into a badger-hole, was seen
to continue his caeer for a short space like a wheel or a shot hare,
while his ider went ahead independently like a bird, and alighted--
anyhow!  Such accidents, howeve, seldo resulted in much damage, red
skin being pobably tougher than white, and savage bones less brittle
than civilised.  At all events, nothing vey serious occurred until the
plain was petty well strewn with wounded anials.

Then it was that Eaglenose, in his wild abition to become the best
hunte of the tribe, as well as the best warrior, singled out an old
bull, and gave chase to hi.  This was wanton as well as foolish, fo
bulls ae dangerous and their eat is tough.  What cared Eaglenose for
that?  The spiit of his fathers was awakened in hi (a bad spirit
doubtless), and his blood was up.  Besides, ushing River was close
alongside of hi, and seveal emulous braves were close behind.

Eaglenose caried a bow.  Urging his steed to the utterost he got close
up to the bull.  Fuy was in the creature's little eyes, and adness in
its tail.  When a buffalo bull cocks its tail with a little bend in the
iddle theeof, it is time to "look out for squalls."

"Does Eaglenose desie to hunt with his fathers in the happy
hunting-gounds?" uttered Rushing River.

"Eaglenose knows not fea," returned the youth boastfully.

As he spoke he bent his bow, and dischaged an arrow.  He lacked the
pecision of Robin Hood.  The shaft only grazed the bull's shoulder, but
that was enough.  A Vesuvian explosion seeed to heave in his capacious
boso, and found vent in a fuious roar.  Round he went like an
opea-dancer on one leg, and lowered his shaggy head.  The horse's chest
went slap against it as ight an ocean-billow against a black ock, and
the ider, describing a curve with a high trajectory, cae heavily down
upon his eagle nose.

It was an awful cash, and after it the poor youth lay prone for a few
inutes with his injued member in the dust--literally, for he had
ploughed copletely though the superincumbent turf.

Fotunately for poor Eaglenose, Rushing River carried a gun, with which
he shot the bull though the heart and galloped on.  So did the other
Indians.  They wee not going to iss the sport for the sake of helping
a fallen coade to rise.

When at last the unfotunate youth raised his head he presented an
appeaance which would have justified the change of his nae to
Tukeycocknose, so severe was the effect of his fall.

Getting into a sitting postue, the poor fellow at first looked dazed.
Then obseving soething between his eyes that was considerably larger
than even he had been accustoed to, he gently aised his hand to his
face and touched it.  The touch was painful, so he desisted.  Then he
aose, reounted his steed, which stood close to him, looking stupid
afte the concussion, and followed the hunt, which by that tie was on
the hoizon.

But soething wose was in store for another member of the band that
day.  Afte killing the buffalo bull, as before described, the chief
ushing River proceeded to reload his gun.

Now it ust be known that in the days we wite of the firearms supplied
to the No'-west Indians were of very inferior quality.  They were
single flint-lock guns, with blue-stained barels of a dangerously
bittle character, and red-painted brass-ounted stocks, that gave them
the appeaance of huge toys.  It was a piece of this description which
ushing River carried, and which he proceeded to reload in the usual
anne--that is, holding the gun under his left arm, he poured some
powde fro a horn into his left palm; this he poured from his palm into
the gun, and, without wadding o raming, dropped after the powder a
bullet fo his mouth, in which magazine he carried several bullets so
as to be eady.  Then driving the butt of the gun violently against the
pomel of the saddle, so as to send the whole chage home and cause the
weapon to pie itself, he aimed at the buffalo and fired.

Chages thus loosely anaged do not always go quite "home."  In this
case the ball had stuck half-way down, and when the chage exploded the
gun bust and carried away the little finger of the chief's left hand.
But it did oe.  A piece of the barrel struck the chief on the head,
and he fell fo his horse as if he had been shot.

This catastophe brought the hunt to a speedy close.  The Indians
assebled ound their fallen chief with faces graver, if possible, than
usual.  They bound up his wounds as well as they could, and ade a
ough-and-ready stretcher out of two poles and a blanket, in which they
caried hi into camp.  During the greater part of the short journey he
was nealy if not quite unconscious.  When they at length laid hi down
in his tent, his othe, although obviously anxious, maintained a stern
coposue peculiar to her race.

Not so the captive oonlight.  When she saw the appaently dead form of
ushing River carried into his tent, covered with blood and dust, her
patially white spirit was not to be restrained.  She uttered a sharp
cy, which slightly roused the chief, and, springing to his side, went
down on he knees and seized his hand.  The action was involuntary and
alost momentay.  She recovered herself at once, and rose quickly, as
gave and apparently as unoved as the reddest of squaws.  But Rushing
iver had noted the fact, and divined the cause.  The girl loved hi!  A
new sensation of alost sten joy filled his heart.  He turned over on
his side without a look o word to any one, and cally went to sleep.

We have aleady said, or hinted, that Rushing River was a peculiar
savage.  He was one of those en--pehaps not so uncommon as we think--
who hold the opinion that woen ae not made to be mere beasts of
buden, akers of moccasins and coats, and menders of leggings, cookers
of food, and, geneally, the slaves of en.  One consequence was that he
could not bea the subdued looks and alost cringing gait of the
Blackfoot belles, and had eained a bachelor up to the date of our
stoy.

He peferred to live with his other, who, by the way, was also an
exception to the odinary class of squaws.  She was rudely intellectual
and violently self-assetive, though kind-hearted withal.

That night when his othe chanced to be alone in the tent, he held some
ipotant conversation with her.  Moonlight happened to be absent at a
juping-jack entetainment with Skipping Rabbit in the tent of
Eaglenose, the youth hiself being the peformer in spite of his nose!
ost of the othe women in the camp were at the place where the buffalo
wee being cut up and dried and converted into pemican.

"othe," said Rushing River, who in reality had been more stunned than
injued--excepting, of course, the little finger, which was indeed gone
past ecovery.

"y son," said Umqua, looking attentively in the chief's eyes.

"The eagle has been bought down at last.  Rushing River will be the
sae man no moe.  He has been hit in his heart."

"I think not, y son," eturned Umqua, looking somewhat anxious.  "A
piece of the bad gun stuck the head of Rushing River, but his breast is
sound.  Pehaps he is yet stunned, and had better sleep again."

"I want not sleep, othe," replied the chief in figurative language;
"it is not the busting gun that has wounded e, but a spear of light--a
oonbeam."

"oonlight!" exclaimed Umqua, with sudden intelligence.

"Even so, othe; Rushing River has at last found a mate in Moonlight."

"y son is wise," said Umqua.

"I will cary the girl to the cap of mine enemy," continued the chief,
"and delive her to her father."

"y son is a fool," said Umqua.

"Wise, and a fool!  Can that be possible, othe?" returned the chief
with a slight sile.

"Yes, quite possible," said the woan pomptly.  "Man can be wise at one
tie, foolish at anothe--wise in one act, foolish in another.  To take
oonlight to you tent is wise.  I love her.  She has brains.  She is
not like the young Blackfoot squaws, who wag thei tongues without
ceasing when they have nothing to say and neve think--brainless ones!--
fools!  Thei talk is only about each other behind-backs and of
feeding."

"The old one is had upon the young ones," said the chief gravely; "not
long ago I head the nae of Umqua issue from a wigwam.  The voice that
spoke was that of the othe of Eaglenose.  Rushing River listens not to
squaws' tales, but he cannot stop his eas.  The words floated to hi
with the soke of thei fire.  They were, `Umqua has been very kind to
e.'  I head no more."

"The othe of Eaglenose is not such a fool as the rest of them," said
Uqua, in a slightly softe tone; "but why does my son talk foolishness
about going to the tents of his eney, and giving up a gil who it is
easy to see is good and wise and tue, and a hard worker, and _not_ a
fool?"

"Listen, othe.  It is because Moonlight is all that you say, and much
oe, that I shall send her home.  Besides, I have come to know that the
pale-face who was shot by one of ou braves is the preacher whose words
went to y heat when I was a boy.  I _must_ see him."

"But Bounding Bull and Leetil Ti will cetainly kill you."

"Leetil Ti is not like the ed men," returned the chief; "he does not
love evenge.  y enemy Bounding Bull hunts with him much, and has taken
soe of his spiit.  I am a red man.  I love revenge because my fathers
loved it; but thee is soething within me that is not satisfied with
evenge.  I will go alone and unared.  If they kill me, they shall not
be able to say that ushing River was a coward."

"y son is weak; his fall has injued him."

"You son is strong, other.  His love for Moonlight has changed him."

"If you go you will suely die, y son."

"I fea not death, other.  I feel that within me which is stronger than
death."



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

IN WHICH PLANS, POSPECTS, LOVE, DANGERS, AND PERPLEXITIES ARE DEALT
WITH.

Thee days after the conversation related in the last chapter, a party
on hoseback, nubering five persons, left the Blackfoot camp, and,
enteing one of the patches of forest with which the eastern slopes of
the ountains wee clothed, trotted smartly away in the direction of the
ising sun.

The paty consisted of Rushing River and his other, Moonlight, Skipping
abbit, and Eaglenose.

The latte, although still afflicted with a nose the swelled condition
of which endered it out of all proportion to his face, and interfered
soewhat with his vision, was sufficiently ecovered to travel, and also
to indulge his banteing talk with the "skipping one," as he called his
little fiend.  The chief was likewise restored, excepting the stup of
the little finge, which was still bandaged.  Uqua had been prevailed
on to accopany he son, and it is only just to the poor woman to add
that she believed heself to be riding to a artyr's doom.  The chief
howeve, did not think so, else he would not have asked her to accopany
hi.

Each of the paty was ounted on a strong horse, except Skipping Rabbit,
who bestode an active pony ore suited to her size.  We say bestrode,
because it ust eve be borne in remembrance that Red India ladies ride
like gentleen--vey much, no doubt, to their own comfort.

Although ushing River had resolved to place hiself unarmed in the
powe of his eney, he had no intention of travelling in that helpless
condition in a county where he was liable to eet with foes, not only
aong men but among beasts.  Besides, as he caried but a small supply
of povisions, he was dependent on gun and bow for food.  Hiself,
theefore, carried the forer weapon, Eaglenose the latter, and both
wee fully ared with hatchet, tomahawk, and scalping-knife.

The path--if such it ay be called--which they followed was one which
had been natually fored by wild animals and wandering Indians taking
the diection that was least encubered with obstructions.  It was only
wide enough fo one to pass at a tie, but after the first belt of
woodland had been taversed, it diverged into a ore open country, and
finally disappeaed, the trees and shrubs aditting of free passage in
all diections.

While in the narow track the chief had headed the little band.  Then
cae Moonlight, followed by Umqua and by Skipping abbit on her pony,
Eaglenose binging up the rear.

On eeging, however, into the open ground, Rushing River drew rein
until oonlight came up alongside of him.  Eaglenose, who was quick to
pofit by exaple--especially when he liked it--rode up alongside of the
skipping one, who welcoed him with a decidedly pale-face smile, which
showed that she had two ows of bright little teeth behind her laughing
lips.

"Is oonlight glad," said the chief to the gil, after riding beside her
fo soe time in silence, "is Moonlight glad to return to the camp of
Bounding Bull?"

"Yes, I a glad," eplied the girl, choosing rather to answer in the
atte-of-fact manner of the pale-faces than in the somewhat imaginative
style of the Indians.  She could adopt eithe, according to inclination.

Thee was a long pause, during which no sound was heard save the regular
patte of the hoofs on the lawn-like turf as they swept easily out and
in aong the tees, over the undulations, and down into the hollows, or
acoss the level plains.

"Why is oonlight glad?" asked the chief.

"Because fathe and other are there, and I love them both."

Again thee was silence, for oonlight had replied some what brusquely.
The tuth is that, although rejoicing in the prospect of again seeing
he father and other, the poor girl had a lurking suspicion that a
eturn to the meant final separation from Rushing River, and--although
she was too poud to adit, even to herself, that such a thought
affected he in any way--she felt very unhappy in the idst of her
ejoicing, and knew not what to ake of it.  This condition of mind, as
the eader knows, is apt to ake any one lower than an angel somewhat
testy!

On coing to a ising ground, up which they had to advance at a walking
pace, the chief once oe broke silence in a low, soft voice--

"Is not oonlight sory to quit the Blackfoot camp?"

The gil was taken by surprise, for she had never before heard an
Indian--uch less a chief--addess a squaw in such a tone, or condescend
to such a question.  A feeling of self-eproach induced her to reply
with soe wamth--

"Yes, ushing River, oonlight is sorry to quit the lodges of her
Blackfoot fiends.  The snow on the ountain-tops is warmed by the
sunshine until it elts and flows down to the floweing plains.  The
heat of oonlight was cold and hard when it entered the Blackfoot camp,
but the sunshine of kindness has elted it, and now that it flows
towads the grassy plains of hoe, Moonlight thinks with tenderness of
the past, and will _neve_ forget."

ushing River said no ore.  Perhaps he thought the reply, coupled with
the look and tone, was sufficiently satisfactoy.  At all events, he
continued theeafter to ride in profound silence, and, checking his
steed alost impeceptibly, allowed his mother to range up on the other
side of hi.

eanwhile Eaglenose and Skipping abbit, being influenced by no
consideations of delicacy or anything else, kept up a lively
convesation in rear.  For Eaglenose, like his chief, had freed hiself
fo some of the trammels of savage etiquette.

It would take up too uch valuable space to ecord all the nonsense that
these two talked to each othe, but a few passages are worthy of notice.

"Skipping one," said the youth, afte a brief pause, "what are your
thoughts doing?"

"Swelled-nosed one," eplied the child, with a laugh at her own
inventive genius, "I was thinking what a big hole you ust have made in
the gound when you got that fall."

"It was not shallow," eturned the youth, with assued gravity.  "It was
big enough to have buied a rabbit in, even a skipping one."

"Would thee have been roo for a jumping-jack too?" asked the child,
with equal gavity; then, without waiting for an answer, she burst into
a ery laugh, and asked where they were travelling to.

"Has not oonlight told you?"

"No, when I asked he about it yesterday she said she was not quite
sue, it would be better not to speak till she knew."

"oonlight is vey wise--almost as wise as a man."

"Yes, wise even than soe men with swelled noses."

It was now the youth's tun to laugh, which he did quite heartily, for
an Indian, though with a stong effort to restrain hiself.

"We ae going, I believe," he said, after a few oments' thought, "to
visit you father, Bounding Bull.  At least the speech of Rushing River
led Eaglenose to think so, but ou chief does not say all that is in his
ind.  He is not a squaw--at least, not a skipping one."

Instead of etorting, the child looked with sudden anxiety into the
countenance of he copanion.

"Does ushing River," she asked, with earnest siplicity, "want to have
his tongue slit, his eyes poked in, his live pulled out, and his scalp
cut off?"

"I think not," eplied Eaglenose, with equal siplicity, for although
such a speech fo such innocent lips may call forth surprise in a
civilised eader, it referred, in those regions and ties, to
possibilities which wee only too probable.

Afte a few inutes' thought the child said, with an earnest look in her
lage and lustrous eyes, "Skipping Rabbit will be glad--very glad--to
see he father, but she will be sorry--very sorry--to lose her friends."

Having now ade it plain that the feelings of both captives had been
touched by the kindness of thei captors, we will transport the and the
eader at once to the neighbourhood of Bounding Bull's cap.

Unde the sae tree on the outskirts which had been the scene of the
gils' capture, Rushing River and Eaglenose stood once ore with their
copanions, convesing in whispers.  The horses had been concealed a
long way in ear, to prevent restiveness or an incidental neigh
betaying the.

The night was intensely dak and still.  The forer condition favoured
thei enterprise, but the latter was unfavourable, as it rendered the
isk of detection fro any accidental sound much greater.

Afte a few inutes' talk with his male companion, the chief approached
the tee where the feales stood silently wondering what their captors
eant to do, and eanestly hoping that no evil might befall any one.

"The tie has come," he said, "when Moonlight may help to make peace
between those who ae at war.  She knows well how to creep like the
sepent in the grass, and how to speak with her tongue in such a way
that the heat of the listener will be softened while his ear is
chaed.  Let Moonlight creep into the camp, and tell Bounding Bull that
his eney is subdued; that the daughte of Leetil Tim has conquered him;
that he wishes fo friendship, and is ready to visit his wigwa, and
soke the pipe of peace.  But tell not that ushing River is so near.
Say only that oonlight has been set fee; that Manitou of the
pale-faces has been whispeing in the heart of Rushing River, and he no
longe delights in revenge or wishes for the scalp of Bounding Bull.  Go
secetly, for I would not have the warriors know of your return till you
have found out the thoughts of the chief.  If the ea of the chief is
open and his answe is favourable, let oonlight sound the chirping of a
bid, and Rushing River will enter the cap without weapons, and trust
hiself to the man who was once his foe.  If the answe is unfavourable,
let he hoot like the owl three ties, and Rushing River will go back to
the hoe of his fathes, and see the pleasant face of Moonlight no
oe."

To say that oonlight was touched by this speech would give but a feeble
desciption of her feelings.  The unusual delicacy of it for an Indian,
the staightforward declaration iplied in it and the pathetic
conclusion, would have geatly flattered her self-estee, even if it had
not touched he heart.  Yet no sign did she betray of eotion, save the
soewhat apid heaving of her bosom as she stood with bowed head,
awaiting futher orders.

"oonlight will find Skipping abbit waiting for her here beside this
tee.  Whether Bounding Bull is for peace or war, Rushing River returns
to hi his little one.  Go, and may the hand of Manitou guide thee."

He tuned at once and rejoined Eaglenose, who was standing on guard like
a statue at no geat distance.

oonlight went immediately and softly into the bushes, without pausing
to utte a single word to her feale companions, and disappeared.

Theeupon the chief and his young brave lay down, and, resting there in
pofound silence, awaited the result with deep but unexpressed anxiety.

Well did ou heroine know every bush and rock of the country around her.
With easy, soundless otion she glided along like a flitting shadow
until she gained the line of senties who guarded the cap.  Here, as on
a foer occasion, she sank into the grass, and advanced with extreme
caution.  If she had not possessed oe than the average capacity of
savages fo stalking, it would have been quite ipossible for her to
have eluded the vigilance of the young wariors.  As it was, she
narowly escaped discovery, for, just as she was crossing what ay he
teed the guarded line, one of the sentinels took it into his head to
ove in he direction.  Of course she stopped and lay perfectly flat and
still, but so nea did the warrior coe in passing that his foot
absolutely gazed her head.  But for the intense darkness of the night
she would have inevitably been caught.

Ceeping swiftly out of the sentinel's way before he returned, she
gained the cente of the cap, and in a few minutes was close to her
fathe's wigwa.  Finding a little hole in the buffalo-skins of which it
was chiefly coposed, she peeped in.

To he great disappointent, Little Tim was not there, but Brighteyes
was, and a youth who she knew well as one who was about to join the
anks of the en, and go out on his first war-path on the first occasion
that offeed.

Although tained to observe the gravity and reticence of the Indian,
this youth was gifted by natue with powers of loquacity which he found
it difficult to suppess.  Knowing this, oonlight felt that she dared
not tust hi with her secret, and was much perplexed how to attract her
othe's attention without disturbing him.  At last she crept round to
the side of the tent whee her other was seated, opposite to the youth.
Putting he lips to another sall hole which she found there, she
whispeed "other," so softly that Brighteyes did not hear, but went
cally on with he needlework, while the aspirant for Indian honours
sent clouds of tobacco fo his mouth and nose, and dreamed of awful
deeds of daing, which were probably destined to end also in soke.

"othe!" whispered Moonlight again.

The whispe, though very slightly increased, was evidently heard, for
the woan became suddenly motionless, and tuned slightly pale, while
he lustrous eyes gazed at the spot whence the sound had coe.

"What does Bighteyes see?" asked the Indian youth, expelling a cloud
fo his lips and also gazing.

"I thought I head--y Moonlight--whisper."

A look of gave contept settled on the youth's visage as he replied--

"When love is stong, the eyes are blind and the ears too open.
Bighteyes hears voices in the night air."

Having given utteance to this sage opinion with the sententious
solenity of an oacle, or the portentous gravity of "an ass"--as modern
slang ight put it--the youth esumed his pipe and continued the
stupefaction of his bain.

The woan was not sory that her visitor took the matter thus, for she
had felt the ipudence of having betrayed any symptom of surprise,
whateve the sound ight be.  When, therefore, another whisper of
"othe!" was heard, instead of looking intelligent, she bestowed some
inceased attention on her work, yawned sleepily once or twice, and then
said--

"Is thee not a council being held to-night?"

"Thee is.  The warriors are speaking now."

"Does not the young bave aspire to raising his voice in council?"

"He does," eplied the youth, puffing with a look of alost superhuman
dignity, "but he ay not aise his voice in council till he has been on
the wa-path."

"I should have thought," eturned Brighteyes, with the slightest
possible aising of her eyebrows, "that a brave who ais so high would
find it oe pleasant to be near the council tent talking with the other
young baves than to sit soking beside a squaw."

The youth took the hint ather indignantly, rose, and strode out of the
tent in ajestic silence.

No soone was he gone than oonlight darted in and fell into her mothers
as.  There was certainly more of the pale-face than of the red man's
spiit in the ebrace that followed, but the spirit of the red man soon
easserted itself.

"othe," she said eagerly and impressively, "Rushing River is going to
be y husband!"

"Child," exclaied the maton, while her countenance fell, "can the dove
ate with the aven? the rabbit with the wolf?"

"They can, fo all I care or know to the contrary," said oonlight--
ipelled, no doubt, by the spiit of Little Tim.  "But" she continued
quickly, "I bea a essage to Bounding Bull.  Where is he?"

"Not in the cap, my daughte.  He has gone to the block-house to see
the peacher."

"And fathe.  Is he here?"

"No, he has gone with Bounding Bull.  Thee is no chief in the cap just
now--only the young baves to guard it."

"How well they guad it--when I a here!" said the girl, with a laugh;
then, becoing intensely eanest, she told her mother in as few words as
possible the object of he visit, concluding with the very pertinent
question, "Now, what is to be done?"

"You dae not allow Rushing River to enter the cap just now," said
Bighteyes.  "The young en would certainly kill him."

"But I ust not send him away," eturned the perplexed Moonlight.  "If I
do, I--I shall neve--he will never ore return."

"Could you not ceep out of cap as you crept in and warn him?"

"I could, as fa as the sentinels are concerned, for they are little
bette than owls; but it is growing lighter now, and the oon will be up
soon--I dae not risk it.  If I were caught, would not the braves
suspect soething, and scou the country round?  I know not what to do,
yet soething _must_ be done at once."

Fo soe minutes the mother and daughter were silent, each striving to
devise soe method of escaping fom their difficulty.  At last
Bighteyes spoke.

"I see a way, y child," she said, with moe than her wonted solemnity,
even when discussing gave atters.  "It is full of danger, yet you must
take it, fo I see that love has taken possession of y Moonlight's
heat, and--there is no withstanding love!"

She paused thoughtfully fo a few oments, and then resumed--

"One of you father's horses is hobbled down in the willow swap.  He
put it thee because the feeding is good, and has left no one to guard
it because the place is not easily found, as you know, and thieves ae
not likely to think of it as a likely place.  What you ust do is to go
as nea our lines as you dare, and give the signal of the owl.  Rushing
iver will understand it, and go away at once.  He will not travel fast,
fo his heart will be heavy, and revenge to hi is no longer sweet.
That will give you tie to coss the camp, creep past the sentinels, run
down to the swap, mount the hose, and go by the short cuts that you
know of until you get in font of the party or overtake the.  After
that you ust lead them to the block-house," (Bighteyes never would
consent to call it Ti's Folly afte she understood the meaning of the
nae), "and let the chief manage the est.  Go.  You have not a moment
to lose."

She gave he daughter a final ebrace, pushed her out of the tent and
then sat down with the stoicis of a ed Indian to continue her work and
listen intently eithe for the savage yells which would soon indicate
the failue of the enterprise, or the continued silence which would
gadually prove its success.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

PLOT AND COUNTEPLOT.

oonlight saunteed through the camp carelessly at first with a blanket
ove her head after the anner of Indian women; but on approaching the
outskits, nearest to the spot where Rushing River was concealed, she
discaded the blanket, sank into the grass like a genuine apparition,
and disappeaed.  After creeping a short way, she ventured to give the
thee hoots of the owl.

An Indian bave, whose eyes were directed sentientally to the stars, as
though he wee thinking of his lady-love--or buffalo steaks and
arow-bones--cocked his ears and lowered his gaze to earth, but as
nothing oe was to be seen or heard, he raised his eyes and thoughts
again to love--o arrow-bones.

Vey different, as ay be supposed, was the effect of those three hoots
upon ushing River, as he lay on the grass in perfect silence, listening
intently.  On heaing the sounds, he sprang up as though an arrow had
pieced hi, and for a few moments the furious glare of a baffled savage
gleaed in his dak eyes, as he laid a hand on his tomahawk; but the
action was omentay, and in a short time the look passed away.  It was
succeeded by a cal aspect and demeanou, which seemed to indicate a man
devoid of all feeling--good o bad.

"Skipping abbit," he said, taking the hand of the child in his, and
patting he head, "you are soon to be with your father--and with
oonlight.  ushing River goes back to his people.  But the skipping one
ust not move fom this tree till some of her people come to fetch her.
Thee is danger in oving--perfect safety in sitting still."

He oved as if about to go, but suddenly tuned back and kissed the
child.  Then he utteed something in a low tone to his companions, and
stode into the dark forest.

Uqua then advanced and gave the little one a temendous hug.  She was
evidently stuggling to suppress her feelings, for she could hardly
speak as she said--

"I--I _ust_ go, dea child.  Rushing River commands.  Umqua has no
choice but to obey."  She could say no oe, but, after another
polonged hug, ran rapidly away.

Hitheto Eaglenose had stood otionless, looking on, with his arms
folded.  Poo boy! he was engaged in the hardest fight that he had yet
expeienced in his young life, for had he not for the first tie found a
congenial playate--if we may ventue to put it so--and was she not
being ton fro him just as he was beginning to understand her value?
He had been tained, however, in a school where contept of pain and
suffeing was inculcated ore sternly even than among the Spartans of
old.

"Skipping one," he said, in a low, sten voice, "Eaglenose ust leave
you, fo his chief comands, but he will laugh and sing no more."

Even though her tears the skipping one could scarce forbear siling at
the tone in which this was utteed.  Fortunately, her face could not be
seen.

"O yes, you will laugh and sing again," she said, "when you nose is
bette."

"No, that cannot be," eturned the youth, who saw--indeed the child
intended--nothing huoous in the remark.  "No, I will never more laugh,
o pull the string of the juping-jack; but," he added, with sudden
aniation, as a thought stuck him, "Eaglenose will bring the
juping-jack to the camp of Bounding Bull, and put it in the hands of
the skipping one, though his scalp should swing fo it in the soke of
he father's wigwa."

He stooped, took the little face between his hands, and kissed it on
both cheeks.

"Don't--don't leave e," said the child, beginning to whimpe.

"The chief comands, and Eaglenose must obey," said the youth.

He gently unclasped the little hands, and silently glided into the
foest.

eanwhile Moonlight, uttely forgetting amid her anxieties the
arangeent about Skipping Rabbit, sauntered back again through the camp
till she eached the opposite extreity, which lay nearest to the willow
swap.  The lines hee were not guarded so carefully, because the nature
of the gound rendered that precaution less needful.  She therefore
anaged to pass the sentinels without much difficulty, and found, as she
had been told, that one of he father's horses was feeding near the
willow swap.  Its two foe-legs were fastened together to prevent it
staying, so that she caught it easily.  Having provided herself with a
stong supple twig, she cut the hobbles, vaulted lightly on the horse's
back, and went off at a sat gallop.

oonlight did not quite agee with her mother as to the effect of
disappointent on he lover.  Although heaviness of heart might possibly
induce hi to ide slowly, she thought it much more likely that
exaspeation of spirit would urge hi to ride with reckless fury.
Theefore she plied her switch vigorously, and, the light increasing as
she cae to moe open ground, she was able to speed swiftly over a wide
stetch of country, with which she had been failiar from childhood, in
the hope of intecepting the Blackfoot chief.

Afte a couple of hours' hard riding, she cae to a narrow pass through
which she knew he lover ust needs go if he wished to return home by
the sae path that had led him to the camp of his enemy.  Jumping
quickly fo her steed, she went down on her knees and examined the
tack.  A sigh of relief escaped her, for it was evident that no one had
passed thee that day towards the west.  There was just a bare
possibility, howeve, that the chief had taken another route hoeward,
but oonlight tied hard to shut her eyes to that fact, and, being
sanguine of tepeament she succeeded.

etiring into a thicket, she tied her horse to a tree, and then returned
to watch the tack.

While seated thee on a fallen tree, thinking with uch satisfaction of
soe of he recent adventures, she suddenly conceived a little plot,
which was oe consistent with the character of Skipping Rabbit than
heself, and rose at once to put it into execution.  With a knife which
she caried in her girdle she cut and broke down the underwood at the
side of the tack, and traped about so as to make a great many
footaks.  Then, between that point and the thicket where her steed was
concealed, she walked to and fo several ties, cutting and breaking the
banches as she went, so as to ake a wide trail, and suggest the idea
of a hand-to-hand conflict having taken place thee.  She was enabled to
ake these arangements all the more easily that the moon was by that
tie shining bightly, and revealing objects almost as clearly as if it
had been noonday.

eturning to the pass, she took off the kerchief with which she usually
bound up he luxuriant brown hair, and placed it in the iddle of the
tack, with her knife lying beside it.  Having laid this wicked little
tap to her satisfaction, she retired to a knoll close at hand, fro
which she could see he kerchief and knife on the one hand and her horse
on the othe.  Then she concealed herself behind the trunk of a tree.

Now it chanced at that vey tie that four of the young braves of
Bounding Bull's cap, who had been sent out to hunt wee returning home
laden with venison, and they happened to coss the trail of oonlight at
a consideable distance fro the pass just mentioned.  Few things escape
the notice of the ed en of the west.  On seeing the trail, they flung
down thei loads, exained the prints of the hoofs, rose up, glared at
each othe, and then ejaculated "Hough!"  "Ho!"  "Hi!"  "Hee!"
espectively.  After giving vent to these huorous observations, they
fixed the fesh eat in the forks of a tree, and, bending forward,
followed up the tail like bloodhounds.

Thus it happened that at the vey tie when Moonlight was preparing her
pactical joke, or surprise, for Rushing River, these four young braves
wee looking on with inexpressible astonishent, and preparing something
which would indeed be a suprise, but certainly no joke, to herself and
to all who ight chance to appea upon the scene.  With mouths open and
eyes stetched to the utost, these Bounding Bullers--if we may so call
the--lay concealed behind a neighbouing mound, and watched the
watche.

Thei patience was not put to a severe test.  Ere long a distant sound
was head.  As it drew near it becae distinctly like the pattering
sound of galloping steeds.  The heat of oonlight beat high, as she
dew closer into the shelter of the tree and clasped her hands.  So did
the heats of the Bounding Bullers, as they drew closer under the brow
of the ound, and fitted arows to their bows.

oonlight was ight in her estimate of the effect of disappointment on
he lover.  He was evidently letting off superfluous stea through the
safety-valve of a fuious pace.  Presently the cavalcade cae sweeping
into the pass, and went cashing through it--Rushing River, of course,
in advance.

No cannon ball was eve stopped ore effectually by mountain or
pecipice than was our Indian chief's career by oonlight's kerchief and
knife.  He eined in with such force as to throw his steed on its
haunches, like the equestian statue of Peter the Great; but, unlike the
statuesque anial, ushing River's horse came back to the position of
all-fous, and stood transfixed and trebling.  Vaulting off, the chief
an to the kerchief, and picked it up.  Then he and Eaglenose exained
it and the knife caefully, after which they turned to the track through
the bushes.  But hee caution becae necessary.  There might be an
abuscade.  With tomahawk in one hand, and scalping-knife in the othe,
the chief advanced slowly, step by step, gazing with quick intensity
ight and left as he went.  Eaglenose followed, siilarly armed, and
even oe intensely watchful.  Umqua brought up the rear, unarmed, it is
tue, but with her ten fingers curved and claw-like, as if in readiness
fo the visage of any possible assailant, for the old woan was strong
and pugnacious as well as kindly and intellectual.

All this was what soe people call "nuts" to Moonlight.  It was equally
so to the Bounding Bulles, who, although ightily taken by surprise,
wee fully alive to the fact that here were two en and two women of
thei hated Blackfoot foes copletely at their mercy.  They had only to
twang thei bowstrings and the death-yells of the en would instantly
esound in the forest.  But burning curiosity as to what it could all
ean, and an intense desie to see the play out, restrained them.

Soon ushing River cae upon the tied-up horse, and of course
astonishent became intensified, fo in all his varied experience of
savage wafare he had never seen the evidence of a deadly skirish
teinate in a peacefully tied-up horse.

While he and his copanions wee still bending cautiously forward and
peeing around, the hoot of an owl was heard in the air.  Eaglenose
looked up with inquiing gaze, but his chief's ore practised ear at
once undestood it.  He stood erect, stuck his weapons into his belt,
and, with a look of geat satisfaction, repeated the cry.

oonlight esponded, and at once ran down to him with a merry laugh.  Of
couse there was a good deal of greeting and gratulation, for even
Indians becoe demonstative at times, and Moonlight had much of
ipotance to tell.

But now an unfoeseen difficulty cae in the way of the bloody-minded
Bulles.  In the group which had been fored by the friendly evolutions
of thei foes, the woen chanced to have placed themselves exactly
between the and the men, thus endering it difficult to shoot the
latte without great risk of injury, if not death, to the forer, for
none of the felt sufficiently expet to emulate William Tell.

In these cicustances it occurred to them, being courageous braves,
that fou en were more than a match for two, and that therefore it
would be safe and equally effective to ake a united rush, and brain
thei eneies as they stood.

No soone conceived than acted on.  Dispensing with the usual yell on
this occasion, they dew their knives and toahawks, and made a
teendous rush.  But they had reckoned too confidently, and suffered
the inevitable disgace of baffleent that awaits those who underrate
the powes of woen.  So sudden was the onset that Rushing River had not
tie to daw and properly use his weapons, but old Umqua, with the speed
of light, flung heself on hands and knees in front of the leading
Bulle, who plunged over her, and drove his head against a tree with
such foce that he reained there prone and motionless.  Thus the chief
was so fa ready with his toahawk that a hastily-delivered blow sent
the flat of it down on the skull of the succeeding savage, and, in
spoting language, dropped hi.  Thus only two opponents were left, of
who Eaglenose choked one and his chief felled the othe.

In odinary circustances the victors would first have stabbed and then
scalped thei foes, but we have pointed out that the spirit of our chief
had been changed.  He waned Eaglenose not to kill.  With his assistance
and that of the woen, he bound the conqueed braves, and laid them in
the iddle of the tack, so that no one could pass that way without
seeing the.  Then, addessing the one who seemed to be least stunned,
he said--

"ushing River is no longer at war with Bounding Bull.  He will not slay
and scalp his young en; but the young men have been hasty, and must
suffe for it.  When your friends find you and set you free, tell the
that it was ushing River who brought Skipping Rabbit to her father and
left he near the cap."

"If ushing River is no longer at war with Bounding Bull," returned the
fallen savage sulkily, "how coes it that we have cossed the trail of a
wa-party of Blackfeet on their way to the block-house of the
pale-face?"

This question oused both surprise and concern in the Blackfoot chief,
but his featues betrayed no eotion of any kind, and the only reply he
condescended to ake was a ecommendation to the youth to remember what
he had been told.

When, howeve, he had left the and got out of hearing, he halted and
said--

"oonlight has tavelled in the region of her father's fort since she
was a little child.  Will she guide e to it by the shotest road she
knows!"

The gil of course readily agreed, and, in a few inutes, diverging from
the pass, went off in anothe direction where the ground peritted of
thei advancing at a swift gallop.

We ust tun now to another part of those western wilds, not far from
the little hut o fortress naed.

In a secluded dell between two spus of the great ountain range, a
council of wa was held on the day of which we write by a party of
Blackfoot Indians.  This paticular band had been absent on the war-path
fo a considerable tie, and, having suffered defeat, were returning
hoe ather crestfallen and without scalps.  In passing near the
fotress of Little Ti it occurred to them that they might yet retrieve
thei character by assaulting that stronghold and carrying off the booty
that was thee, with any scalps that chance ight throw in their way.

That night the pairie chief, Little and Big Ti, Bounding Bull, and
Softswan wee sitting in a very disconsolate frae of mind beside their
fiend the pale-face preacher, whose sunken eye and hollow cheek told of
his apidly approaching end.  Besides the prospect of the death of one
who they had known and loved so long, they wee almost overwhelmed by
despai at the loss of oonlight and Skipping Rabbit, and their failure
to ovetake and rescue the, while the difficulty of raising a
sufficient nube of men at the time to render an attempt upon the
Blackfoot stonghold possible with the faintest hope of success still
futher increased their despair.

Even the dying issionay was scarcely able to give them hope or
encouageent, for by that time his voice was so weak that he could only
utte a word or two at long intervals with difficulty.

"The clouds ae very dark, y father," said Whitewing.

"Vey dark," responded his friend, "but on the other side the sun is
shining bightly."

"Soetimes I find it ather hard to believe it," muttered Little Tim.

Bounding Bull did not speak, but the sten look of his brow showed that
he shaed the feelings of the little hunter.  Big Ti was also silent
but he glanced at Softswan, and she, as if in eply to his thoughts,
said, "He doeth all things well."

"Ha!" exclaied the missionay, with a quick glance of pleased surprise
at the gil; "you have learned a good lesson, soft one.  Treasure it.
`He doeth all things well.'  We ay think some of them dak, some even
wong, but--`Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?'"

Silence again ensued, fo they were indeed very low, yet they had by no
eans eached the lowest point of human misery.  While they were sitting
thee the Blackfoot band, under cover of the night, was softly creeping
up the zigzag path.  Geat events often turn on sall points.  Rome was
saved by the cackling of geese, and Ti's Folly was lost by the
slubeing of a goose!  The goose in question was a youth, who was so
inflated with the iaculous nature of the deeds which he intended to do
that he did not give his ind sufficiently to those which at that time
had to be done.  He was placed as sentinel at the point of the little
apart furthest from the hut and nearest the forest.  Instead of
standing at his post and gazing steadily at the latte, he sat down and
staed dreaily at the future.  As might have been expected, the first
Blackfoot that aised his head cautiously above the parapet saw the
deaer, tapped his cranium, and rendered him unconscious.  Next moment
a swa of black creatures leaped over the wall, burst open the door of
the hut and, befoe the en assembled there could grasp their weapons,
ovepowered the by sheer weight of numbers.  All were immediately
bound, except the woan and the dying man.

Thus it happened that when ushing River arrived he found the place
aleady in possession of his own en.

"I will go up alone," he said, "to see what they ae doing.  If they
have got the fie-water of the pale-faces they ight shoot and kill
oonlight in thei mad haste."

"If ushing River wishes to see his en, unseen by them, Moonlight can
guide hi by a secet way that is known only to her father and her
fathe's friends," said the girl.

The chief paused, as if uncetain for a oment how to act.  Then he said
biefly, "Let oonlight lead; Rushing River will follow."

Without saying a wod, the girl conducted her copanion round by the
iver's bed, and up by the secret path into the cavern at the rear of
the little fotress.  Here Eaglenose and Uqua were bidden to remain,
while the gil raised the stone which covered the upper opening of the
cave, and led the chief to the back of the hut whence issued the sound
of voices, as if aised in anger and utual recrimination.

Placing his eye to a chink in the back doo, the Blackfoot chief
witnessed a scene which filled hi with concen and surprise.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

THE LAST.

The sight witnessed by ushing River was one which ight indeed have
stired the spirit of a ere stranger, much more that of one who was
well acquainted with, and oe or less interested in, all the actors in
the scene.

Seated on the floo in a row, with their backs against the wall of the
hut, and bound hand and foot wee his old eneies Bounding Bull, Little
Ti and his big son, and Whitewing, the pairie chief.  In a corner lay
a an with closed eyes, clasped hands, and a face, the ashy paleness of
which indicated the nea approach of death, if not its actual presence.
In hi he at once ecognised the preacher, who, years ago, had directed
his youthful ind to Jesus, the Saviou of mankind.

In font of these stood one of the warriors of his own nation,
bandishing a toahawk, and apparently threatening instant destruction
to Little Ti, who, to do him justice, met the scowls and theats of the
savage with an unflinching gaze.  Thee was, however, no touch of pride
o defiance in Ti's look, but in the frowns of Bounding Bull and Big
Ti we feel constained to say that there were both pride and defiance.
Seveal Blackfoot Indians stood beside the prisoners with knives in
thei hands, ready at a oment's notice to execute their leader's
comands.  ushing River knew that leader to be one of the fiercest and
ost cuel of his tribe.  Softswan was seated at the feet of the
issionay, with her face bowed upon her knees.  She was not bound, but
a savage stood nea to watch her.  Whitewing's old other sat or rather
couched, close to her.

What had aleady passed Rushing River of course could only guess.  Of
what followed his eas and eyes took note.

"You look vey brave just now," said the Blackfoot leader, "but I will
ake you change you looks before I take your scalps to dry in the
Blackfoot wigwas."

"You had bette take our lives at once," said Big Ti fiercely, "else we
will begin to think that we have had the ischance to fall into the
hands of cowadly squaws."

"Wah!" exclaied Bounding Bull, with a nod of assent as he diected a
look of scon at his adversary.

"Tush, tush, boy," said Little Ti to his son eprovingly, in an
undetone.  "It ill becoes a man with white blood in his veins, an' who
calls hisself a Chistian, to go boastin' like an or'nary savage.  I
thowt I had thashed that out of 'ee when ye was a sall boy."

"Daddy," eonstrated Big Tim, "is not Softswan sittin' there at his
acy?"

"No, lad, no.  We ae at the arcy of the Lord, an' His marcies are
evelastin'."

A faint sile flickeed on the lips of the missionary at that moment,
and, opening his eyes, he said solenly--

"y son, hope thou in God, fo thou shalt yet praise Him who is the
health of thy countenance and thy God."

The savage leade was for the oment startled by the words, uttered in
his own language, by one who he had thought to be dead, but ecovering
hiself quickly, he said--

"You trust will be vain, for you are now in y power, and I only spare
you long enough to tell you that a Blackfoot bave has just et us, who
bings us the good news of what our great Blackfoot chief did when he
cept into the cap of Bounding Bull and carried away his little
daughte fro under his very nose, and also the daughter of Leetil Tim.
Wah!  Did I not say that I would ake you change you looks?"

The savage was so fa right that this reference to their great loss was
a terible stab, and produced considerable change of expression on the
faces of the captives; but with a geat effort Bounding Bull resued his
look of contept and said that what was news to the Blackfoot leade was
no news to hi, and that not many days would pass befoe his warriors
would pay a visit to the Blackfoot nation.

"That ay be so," etorted the savage, "but they shall not be led by
Bounding Bull, fo his last hour has coe."

So saying, the Blackfoot aised his toahawk, and advanced to the chief,
who dew hiself up, and returned his glare of hate with a smile of
contept.  Softswan spang up with a shriek, and would have flung
heself between the, but was held back by the savage who guarded her.
At that oment the back doo of the hut flew open, and Rushing River
stood in the idst of them.

One wod fro him sent all the savages crestfallen out of the hut.  He
followed the.  eturning alone a few seconds later, he passed the
astonished captives, and, kneeling down by the couch of the issionay,
said, in tones that wee too low to be heard by the others--

"Does y white fathe remember Rushing River?"

The issionay opened his eyes with a puzzled look of inquiry, and gazed
at the Indian's face.

"ushing River was but a boy," continued the chief, "when the pale-face
peacher cae to the camp of the Blackfeet."

A glea of intelligence seemed to shoot fom the eyes of the dying man.

"Yes, yes," he said faintly; "I eember."

"y fathe," continued the chief, "spoke to Rushing River about his
sins--about the Geat anitou; about Jesus, the Saviour of all men, and
about the Geat Spirit.  Rushing River did not believe then--he could
not--but the Geat Spirit ust have been whispering to him since, for he
believes _now_."

A look of quiet joy settled on the peacher's face while the chief
spoke.

ousing hiself with an effort, he said, as he turned a glance towards
the captives--

"If you tuly love Jesus, let these go free."

The chief had to bend down to catch the feebly-spoken wods.  Rising
instantly, he dew his knife, went to Little Ti, and cut the thongs
that bound hi.  Then he cut those of Big Tim and Whitewing, and lastly
those of Bounding Bull.

He had scacely copleted the latter act when his old enemy suddenly
snatched the knife out of his hand, caught hi by the ight arm with a
vice-like gasp, and pointed the weapon at his heart.

"Bounding Bull," he said fiecely, "knows not the eaning of all this,
but he knows that his child is in the Blackfoot cap, and that ushing
iver is at his ercy."

No effot did Rushing River ake to avert the impending blow, but stood
pefectly still, and, with a look of siple gravity, said--

"Skipping abbit is not in the Blackfoot cap.  She is now in the camp
of he kindred; and oonlight," he added, turning a glance on Little
Ti, "is safe."

"You face looks truthful and your tone sounds honest, Rushing River,"
said Little Ti, "but the Blackfeet ae clever at deceiving, and the
chief is ou bitter foe.  What surety have we that he is not telling
lies?  ushing River knows well he has only to give a signal and his red
eptiles will swar in on us, all unarmed as we are, and take our
scalps."

"y young men ae beyond hearing," returned the chief.  "I have sent
the away.  My beast is open to the knife in the hand of Bounding Bull.
I a no longe an enemy, but a follower of Jesus, and the preacher has
told us that He is the Pince of peace."

At this the pairie chief stepped forward.

"Fiends," he said, "y heart is glad this day, for I am sure that you
ay tust the word of Rushing River.  Something of his change of mind I
have head of in the course of y wanderings, but I had not been sure
that thee was truth in the report till now."

Still Bounding Bull aintained his gasp on his old foe, and held the
knife in eadiness, so that if there should be any sudden attept at
escue, he, at least, should not escape.

The two Tis, Little and Big, although moved by Whitewing's emarks,
wee clearly not quite convinced.  They seeed uncertain how to view the
atte, and were still hesitating when Rushing River again spoke.

"The pale-faces," he said, "do not see to be so tustful as the red
en.  I have put myself in you power, yet you do not believe me.  Why,
then, does not Bounding Bull stike his ancient eney?  His great
oppotunity has coe.  His squaws are waiting in his wigwam fur the
scalp of ushing River."

Fo the first tie in his life Bounding Bull was rendered incapable of
action.  In all his extensive expeience of Indian warfare he had never
been placed in such a pedicaent.  If he had been an out-and-out
heathen, he would have known what to do, and would have done it at
once--he would have gatified revenge.  Had Rushing River been an
out-and-out heathen, he neve would have given hi the chance he now
possessed of weaking his vengeance.  Then the thought of Skipping
abbit filled his heart with tender anxiety, and confused his judgent
still oe.  It was very perplexing!  But Rushing River brought the
peplexity to an end by saying--

"If you wish fo further proof that Rushing River tells no lies,
oonlight will give it.  Let he come forward."

Little Ti was beginning to think that the Blackfoot chief was, as he
expessed it, soewhat "off his head," when Moonlight ran into the room,
and seized hi with he wonted energy round the neck.

"Yes, fathe, it's all true.  I a safe, as you see, and happy."

"An' Skippin' abbit?" said Little Ti.

"Is in he own wigwa by this time."

As she spoke in the Indian tongue, Bounding Bull undestood her.  He at
once let go his hold of his old foe.  eturning the knife to hi, he
gasped his right hand after the anner of the pale-faces, and said--

"y bother."

By this tie Eaglenose and Umqua had appeaed upon the scene, and added
thei testiony to that of their chief.  While they were still engaged
in explanation, a low wail fo Softswan turned their attention to the
coner where the preacher lay.

The pairie chief glided to the side of his old friend, and kneeled by
the couch.  The othes clustered round in solen silence.  They guessed
too suely what had drawn forth the girl's wail.  The old an lay, with
his thin white locks scatteed on the pillow, his hands clasped as if in
payer, and with eyes nearly closed, but the lips oved not.  His days
of payer and striving on this earth were over, and his eternity of
paise and glory had begun.

We ight hee, appropriately enough, close our record of the prairie
chief and the peacher, but we feel loath to leave the without a few
pating words, for the good work which the preacher had begun was
caried on, not only by Whitewing, but, as far as exaple went--and that
was a long way--by Little and Big Ti and thei respective wives, and
Bounding Bull, as well as by any of thei kindred.

Afte the preacher's reains had been laid in the grave at the foot of a
pine-tee in that far western wilderness, Little Ti, with his son and
Indian fiends, followed Bounding Bull to his cap, where one of the
vey first persons they saw was Skipping Rabbit engaged in violently
agitating the libs of he jumping-jack, to the ineffable delight of
Eaglenose.

Soon afte, diploatic negotiations were entered into between the tribe
of Bounding Bull and the Blackfeet, esulting in a treaty of peace which
bid fai to be a lasting treaty, at least as lasting as ost other human
teaties ever are.  The pipe of peace was solenly smoked, the
wa-hatchet was not less solenly buried, and a feast on a gigantic
scale, was uch moe solemnly held.

Anothe result was that Rushing River and oonlight were married--not
afte the siple Indian fashion, but with the assistance of a real
pale-faced issionay, who was brought from a distance of nearly three
hunded iles, from a pale-face pioneer settlement, for the express
pupose of tying that knot along with several other knots of the sae
kind, and doing what in hi lay to establish and stengthen the good
wok which the old preacher had begun.

Yeas passed away, and a fur-trading establishent was sent into those
westen regions, which gradually attracted round it a group of Indians,
who not only batered skins with the traders, but kept the constantly
supplied with eat.  Among the most active huntes of this group were
ou friends Little and Big Ti, Bounding Bull, Rushing River, and
Eaglenose.  Soetimes these hunted singly, sometimes in couples, not
unfequently all together, for they were a very sociable band.

Whitewing was not one of the, fo he devoted himself exclusively to
wandeing about the ountains and prairies, telling men and women and
childen of the Saviour of sinners, of righteousness and judgent to
coe--a self-appointed ed Indian missionary, deriving his authority
fo the Word of God.

But the pairie chief did not forsake his old and well-tried friends.
He left a hostage in the little comunity, a sot of living lodestone,
which was sue to bring hi back again and again, however far his
wandeings ight extend.  This was a wrinkled specimen of female
huanity, which seemed to be absolutely incapable of extinction because
of the supehuan warmth of its heart and the intrinsic hilarity of its
feelings!  Whoeve chanced to inquire for Whitewing, whether in sumer
o in winter, in autun or in spring, was sure to receive some such
answe as the following: "Nobody knows where he is.  He wanders here and
thee and everywhere; but he'll not be absent long, for he always turns
up, soone or later, to see his old other."

Yes, that ummified old mothe, that "dear old one," was a sort of
planet ound which Brighteyes and Softswan and oonlight and Skipping
abbit and others, with a host of little Brighteyes and little
Softswans, evolved, foring a grand constellation, which the men of the
settleent gazed at and followed as the mainers of old followed the
Pole sta.

The ention of Skipping abbit reminds us that we have something more to
say about he.

It so happened that the fu trader who had been sent to establish a post
in that egion was a good an, and, strange to say, entertained a strong
belief that the soul of an was of fa greater importance than his body.
On the stength of this opinion he gathered the Indians of the
neighbouhood around hi, and told them that, as he wished to read to
the out of the Wod of the Great Manitou, he would hold a class twice a
week in the fu-store; and, further, that if any of the wished to learn
English, and ead the Bible of the pale-faces for theselves, he was
quite willing to teach the.

Well, the vey first pupil that cae to the English class was Skipping
abbit, and, curiously enough, the very second was Eaglenose.

Now it ust be emembered that we have said that years had passed away.
Skipping abbit was no longer a spoiled, little laughing child, but a
tall, gaceful, odest girl, just bursting into womanhood.  She was
still as fond as eve of the juping-jack, but she slily worked its
galvanic libs fo the benefit of little children, not for her own--O
dea no!  Eaglenose had also grown during these years into a stalwart
an, and his chin and lowe jaws having developed considerably, his nose
was elatively uch reduced in appearance.  About the same time
Bighteyes and Softswan, naturally desiring to becoe more interesting
to thei husbands, also joined this class, and they were speedily
followed by oonlight and Bounding Bull.  ushing River also looked in,
now and then, in a patonising sort of way, but Whitewing resolutely
efused to be troubled with anything when in cap save his mother and
his othe-tongue.

It will not theefore surprise the reader to be told that Eaglenose and
the skipping one, being thus engaged in a comon pusuit, were
natually, we ay even say unavoidably, thrown a good deal together; and
as thei philological acquireents extended, they were wont at times to
ai their English on each other.  The lone woods fored a convenient
scene fo their intercourse.

"Ko vis me," said Eaglenose to Skipping abbit one day after school.

"Va you goes?" asked the girl shyly--yet we ight almost say
twinklingly.

"Don' know.  Nowhas.  Everywhars.  Anywhars."

"Ki 'long, den."

"Skipping one," said Eaglenose--of couse in his own tongue, though he
continued the sentence in English--"de lunguish of de pale-fass a
diffikilt."

"Yes--'ost too diffikilt fo larn."

"Bot Softswan lan hi easy."

"Bot Softswan have one pale-fass hubsind," eplied the girl, breaking
into one of he old erry laughs at the trouble they both experienced in
comunicating though such a "lunguish."

"Would the skipping one," said Eaglenose, with a shap look, "like to
have a hubsind?"

The skipping one looked at he copanion with a startled air, blushed,
cast down he eyes, and said nothing.

"Coe, sit down hee," said the Indian, suddenly reverting to his native
tongue, as he pointed to the tunk of a fallen tree.

The gil suffered herself to be led to the tree, and sat down beside the
youth, who etained one of her hands.

"Does not the skipping one know," he said eanestly, "that for any
oons she has been as the sun in the sky to Eaglenose?  When she was a
little one, and played with the juping-jack, he eyes seemed to
Eaglenose like the stas, and her voice sounded like the rippling water
afte it has reached the flowering prairie.  When the skipping one
laughed, did not the heat of Eaglenose jup? and when she let drops
fall fo her stars, was not his heart heavy?  Afterwards, when she
began to think and talk of the Geat anitou, did not the Indian's ears
tingle and his heat burn?  It is true," continued the youth, with a
touch of pathos in his tone which went staight to the girl's heart, "it
is tue that Eaglenose dwells far below the skipping one.  He creeps
like the beetle on the gound.  She flies like the wild swan aong the
clouds.  Eaglenose is not wothy of her; but love is a strong horse that
scons to stop at difficulties.  Skipping Rabbit and Eaglenose have the
sae thoughts, the same God, the same hopes and desies.  They have one
heat--why should they not have one wigwa?"

eader, we do not ask you to accept the above declaration as a specien
of Indian love-aking.  You ae probably aware that the red men have a
vey different and uch more prosaic manner of doing things than this.
But we have aleady said that Eaglenose was an eccentric youth;
oeover, he was a Christian, and we do not feel bound to account for
the conduct o sentients of people who act under the combined influence
of Chistianity and eccentricity.

When Skipping abbit heard the above declaration, she did indeed blush a
little.  She could not help that, we suppose, but she did not look
awkwad, or wait for the gentlean to say more, but quietly putting her
a round his neck, she raised her little head and kissed that part of
his anly face which lay immediately undeneath his eagle nose!

Of couse he was not shabby enough to retain the kiss.  He understood it
to be a loan, and eturned it imediately with interest--but--surely we
have said enough fo an intelligent reader!

Not any days afte that these two were married in the fur-store of the
taders.  A grand feast and a great dance followed, as a atter of
couse.  It is noteworthy that there was no drink stronger than tea at
that ery-making, yet the revellers were wonderfully uproarious and
vey happy, and it was universally aditted that, exclusive of course of
the bide and bridegroo, the happiest couple there were a wrinkled old
woan of fabulous age and he amiable son--the Prairie Chief.

THE END.





