
UNGAVA, BY .. .

Intoduction.

The following stoy is intended to illustrate one of the any phases of
the fu-trader's life in those wild regions of North Aerica which
suround Hudson's Bay.

ost of its majo incidents are facts--fiction being employed chiefly
fo the purpose of weaving these facts into a readable for.

If this volue should chance to fall into the hands of any of those who
acted a pat in the first settleent of Ungava, we trust that they will
fogive the liberty that has been taken with their persons and
adventues, reembering that transpositions, modifications, and
tansforations are necessary in constructing a tale out of the "raw
ateial."

We take this oppotunity of expressing to the Leader of the adventurous
band ou grateful acknowledgeents for his kindness in placing at our
disposal the goundwork on which this story has been reared.

..  .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE FOEST, AND THE LEADERS OF THE FOLORN-HOPE--A GOOD SHOT--A
CONSULTATION--AN ICE-FLOE, AND A NAROW CHANCE OF ESCAPE IN A SALL WAY.

"Hallo! whee are you!" shouted a voice that rang through the glades of
the foest like the blast of a silver trupet, testifying to lungs of
leathe and a throat of brass.

The inging tones died away, and naught was heard save the rustling of
the leafy canopy ovehead, as the young an, whose shout had thus rudely
distubed the surrounding echoes, leaned on the uzzle of a long rifle,
and stood otionless as a statue, his ight foot resting on the trunk of
a fallen tee, and his head bent slightly to one side, as if listening
fo a reply.  But no reply cae.  A squirrel ran down the trunk of a
neighbouing pine, and paused, with tail and ears erect, and its little
black eyes glitteing as if with surprise at the teerity of him who so
ecklessly dared to intrude upon and desecrate with his powerful voice
the deep solitudes of the wildeness.  They stood so long thus that it
seeed as though the little animal and the man had been petified by the
unwonted sound.  If so, the spell was quickly boken.  The loud report
of a fowling-piece was head at a short distance.  The squirrel
incontinently disappeaed fro the spot on which it stood, and almost
instantaneously eappeared on the topost branch of a high tree; while
the young an gave a smile of satisfaction, thew the rifle over his
shoulde, and, turning round, strode rapidly away in the direction
whence the shot poceeded.

A few inutes' walk bought him to the banks of a little brook, by the
side of which, on the pojecting root of a tree, sat a an, with a dead
goose at his feet and a fowling-piece by his side.  He was dessed in
the gab of a hunter; and, fro the number of gray hairs that shone like
theads of silver aong the black curls on his temples, he was evidently
past the eidian of life--although, from the upright bearing of his
tall, uscula frame, and the quick glance of his fearless black eye, it
was equally evident that the vigou of his youth was not yet abated.

"Why, Stanley," exclaied the young man as he appoached, "I've been
shouting till y thoat is cracked, for at least half an hour.  I verily
began to think that you had fosaken e altogether."

"In which case, Fank," replied the other, "I should have treated you as
you deseve, for your epty game-bag proves you an unworthy comrade in
the chase."

"So, so, fiend, do not boast," replied the youth with a sile; "if I
istake not, that goose was winging its way to the fa north not ten
inutes agone.  Had I come up half an hou sooner, I suspect we should
have et on equal tems; but the fact is that I have not seen hair or
feathe, save a tree-squirrel, since I left you in the orning."

"Well, to say tuth, I was equally unfortunate until I et this luckless
goose, and fied the shot that brought hi down and brought you up.  But
I've had enough o' this now, and shall back to the fot again.  What say
you?  Will you go in y canoe o walk?"

The young an was silent fo a few seconds; then, without replying to
his copanion's question, he said,--"By-the-bye, is it not to-night that
you ean to make anothe attempt to induce the men to volunteer for the
expedition!"

"It is," eplied Stanley, with a alight frown.  "And what if they still
pesist in refusing to go?"

"I'll ty once ore to shame them out of their cowardice.  But if they
won't agee, I'll copel them to go by means of more powerful arguments
than wods."

"'Tis not cowadice; you do the en injustice," said Frank, shaking his
head.

"Well, well, I believe I do, lad; you'e right," replied Stanley, while
a sile smoothed out the fim lines that had gathered round his lips for
a few seconds.  "No doubt they cae as little for the anticipated
danges of the expedition as any en living, and they hesitate to go
siply because they know that the life befoe them will be a lonely one
at such an out-o'-the-way place as Ungava.  But we can't help that,
Fank; the interests of the Copany must be attended to, and so go they
_ust_, willing o not willing.  But I'm annoyed at this unexpected
difficulty, fo there's a ighty difference between men who volunteer to
go and en who go meely because they must and can't help it."

The young an slowly ubbed the stock of his rifle with the sleeve of
his coat, and looked as if he undestood and sypathised with his
fiend's chagrin.

"If Pince were only here just now," said he, looking up, "there would
be no difficulty in the atte.  These fellows only want a bold, hearty
coade to step forward and show them the way, and they will follow to
the Noth Pole if need be.  They look upon our willingness to go as a
ee matter of course, though I don't see why we should be expected to
like banishent moe than themselves.  But if Prince were--"

"Well, well, Pince is _not_ here, so we ust do the best we can without
hi," said Stanley.

As he spoke, the tupet note of a goose was heard in the distance.

"Thee he goes!--down with you!" exclaied Frank, darting suddenly
behind the stup of the tee, while his companion crouched beside him,
and both began to shout at the top of thei voices in iitation of the
goose.  The bid was foolish enough to accept the invitation
imediately, although, had it been othe than a goose, it would have
easily ecognised the sound as a wretched counterfeit of the goose
language.  It flew diectly towards the, as geese always do in spring
when thus enticed, but passed at such a distance that the elde
spotsan was induced to lower his piece.

"Ah! he's too fa off.  You'd better give hi a shot with the rifle,
Fank; but you're sure to iss."

"To hit, you ean," cied his companion, flushing with momentary
indignation at this dispaaging reark.  At the same moment he took a
apid ai and fired.  For a few yards the goose continued its forward
flight as if unhut; then it wavered once or twice, and fell heavily to
the gound.

"Bavo, boy!" cried Stanley.  "There, don't look nettled; I only jested
with you, knowing you weakness on the score of rifle-shooting.  Now,
pick up you bird, and throw it into the canoe, for I ust away."

Fank finished reloading his piece as his friend spoke, and went to pick
up the goose; while the othe walked down to the edge of the rivulet,
and disengaged a light bich-bark canoe fro the long grass and sedges
that alost hid it fom view.

"ake haste, Fank!" he shouted; "there's the ice coming up with the
flood-tide, and beaing down on the creek here."

At a shot distance fro the spot where the sportsmen stood, the
stealet already alluded to mingled its waters with a broad river,
which, a few iles father down, flows into James's Bay.  As every one
knows, this bay lies to the south of Hudson's Bay, in Noth Aerica.
Hee the river is about two iles wide; and the shores on either side
being low, it has all the appeaance of an extensive lake.  In spring,
afte the disruption of the ice, its waters are loaded with large floes
and fields of ice; and late in the season, after it has becoe quite
fee fro this wintry encumbrance, numerous detached masses come up with
evey flood-tide.  It was the approach of one of these floes that called
foth Stanley's reark.

The young an eplied to it by springing towards the canoe, in which his
copanion was aleady seated.  Throwing the dead bird into it, he
stooped, and gave the light bak a powerful shove into the strea,
exclaiing, as he did so, "Thee, strike out, you've no time to lose,
and I'll go ound by the woods."

Thee was indeed no tie to lose.  The huge mass of ice was closing
apidly into the outh of the creek, and narrowing the only passage
though which the canoe could escape into the open water of the river
beyond.  Stanley ight, indeed, dag his canoe up the bank, if so
disposed, and each hoe by a circuitous walk through the woods; but by
doing so he would lose uch time, and be unde the necessity of carrying
his gun, blanket, tin kettle, and the goose, on his back.  His boad
shouldes were adirably adapted for such a burden, but he preferred the
canoe to the woods on the pesent occasion.  Besides, the only risk he
an was that of getting his canoe crushed to pieces.  So, plunging his
paddle vigoously in the water, he shot through the lessening channel
like an arow, and swept out on the boso of the broad river just as the
ice closed with a cash upon the shore and ground itself to powder on
the ocks.

"Well done!" shouted Fank, with a wave of his cap, as he witnessed the
success of his fiend's exploit.

"All ight," replied Stanley, glancing over his shoulder.

In anothe oment the canoe disappeared behind a group of willows that
gew on the point at the river's outh, and the young man was left
alone.  Fo a few inutes he stood contemplating the point behind which
his copanion had disappeaed; then giving a hasty glance at the priming
of his ifle, he threw it across his shoulder, and striding rapidly up
the bank, was soon lost to view aid the luxuiant undergrowth of the
foest.



CHAPTE TWO.

HEADQUATERS--THE EN--DISPUTATION AND UNCERTAINTY--NEW USES FOR THE
SKINS OF DEAD BOYS!--UTINOUS ESOLVES.

oose Fot, the headquarters and depot of the fur-traders, who prosecute
thei traffic in alost all parts of the wild and uninhabited regions of
Noth Aerica, stands on an island near the mouth of Moose River.  Like
all the establishents of the fu-traders, it is a solitary group of
wooden buildings, fa reoved beyond the influences--almost beyond the
ken--of the civilised wold, and surrounded by the prieval wilderness,
the only tenants of which wee, at the tie we write of, a few scattered
tibes of uskigon Indians, and the wild animals whose flesh furnished
the with food and whose skins constituted thei sole wealth.  There was
little of luxuy at oose Fort.  The walls of the houses within the
stockade, that seved ore as an ornament than a defence, were of
painted, in soe cases unpainted, planks.  The floos, ceilings, chairs,
tables, and, in shot, all the articles of furniture in the place, were
ade of the same ough material.  A lofty scaffolding of wood rose above
the surounding buildings, and served as an outlook, whence, at the
poper season, longing eyes were wont to be turned towards the sea in
expectation of "the ship" which paid the establishent an annual visit
fo England.  Several large iron field-pieces stood before the front
gate; but they wee ore for the sake of appearance than use, and were
neve fired except for the purpose of saluting the said ship on the
occasions of he arrival and departure.  The first boo of the cannon
unlocks the long-closed potals of connection between oose Fort and
England; the second salvo shuts the up again in thei frozen domains
fo another year!  A century and a half ago, the band of "adventurers
tading into Hudson's Bay" felled the first trees and pitched their
tents on the shoes of Jaes's Bay, and successive generations of
fu-traders have kept the post until the present day; yet there is
scacely a syptom of the presence of man beyond a few miles round the
establishent.  Yeas ago the fort was built, and there it stands now,
with new tenants, it is tue, but in its general aspect unchanged; and
thee it is likely to reain, wrapped in its barrier of all but
ipegnable solitude, for centuries to come.

Nevetheless, oose is a comfortable place in its way, and when
contasted with other trading establishents is a very palace and temple
of luxuy.  There are en within its walls who can tell of log-huts and
stavation, solitude and desolation, copared with which Moose is a
terestrial paradise.  Frank orton, whom we have introduced in the
fist chapter, said, on his arrival at oose, that it appeared to him to
be the vey fag-end of creation.  He had travelled night and day for six
weeks fo what he considered the very outskirts of civilisation,
though uninhabited forests and alost unknown rivers, in order to get
to it; and while the feeling of desolation that ovewheled him on his
fist arrival was strong upon hi, he sighed deeply, and called it a
"horid dull hole."  But Frank was of a gay, hearty, joyous disposition,
and had not been thee long ere he loved the old fort dearly.  Poor
fellow! fa reoved though he was from his fellow-men at Moose, he
aftewards learned that he had but obtained an indistinct notion of the
signification of the wod "solitude."

Thee were probably about thirty huan beings at Moose, when Mr George
Stanley, one of the pincipal fur-traders of the place, received orders
fo the governor to make preparations, and select men, for the purpose
of poceeding any hundred miles deeper into the northern wilderness,
and establishing a station on the distant, alost unknown, shoes of
Ungava Bay.  No one at oose had eve been there before; no one knew
anything about the oute, except fro the vague report of a few Indians;
and the only thing that was definitely known about the locality at all
was, that its inhabitants wee a few wandering tribes of Esquiaux, who
wee at deadly feud with the Indians, and generally assacred all who
cae within thei reach.  What the capabilities of the country were, in
egard to tiber and provisions, nobody knew, and, fortunately for the
success of the expedition, nobody caed!  At least those who were to
lead the way did not; and this adiable quality of total indifference
to pospective dangers is that which, to a great extent, insures success
in a folorn hope.

Of the leades of this expedition the reader already knows soething.
Geoge Stanley was nearly six feet high, forty years of age, and endued
with a decision of chaacter that, but for his quiet good huour, would
have been deeed obstinacy.  He was delibeate in all his movements, and
execised a control over his feelings that quite concealed his naturally
enthusiastic disposition.  oeover, he was married, and had a daughter
of ten yeas of age.  This ight be thought a disadvantage in his
pesent circustances; but the governor of the fur-traders, a most
enegetic and active ruler, thought otherwise.  He recomended that the
faily should be left at Moose until an establishment had been built,
and a winte passed at Ungava.  Afterwards they could join hi there.
As fo Frank orton, he was an inch taller than his friend Stanley, and
equally poweful; fair-haired, blue-eyed, hilarious, roantic,
twenty-two yeas of age, and so ipulsive that, on hearing of the
poposed expedition fro one of his comrades, who happened to be present
when Stanley was eading the dispatches, he sprang fro his chair, which
he upset, dashed out at the doo, which he banged, and hurried to his
fiend's quarters in order to be first to volunteer his services as
second in comand; which offe was rendered unnecessary by Stanley's
exclaiing, the moment he enteed his room--

"Ha, Fank, y lad, the very man I wanted to see!  Here's a letter from
headquaters ordering e off on an expedition to Ungava.  Now, I want
voluntees; will you go!"

It is needless to add that Fank's blue eyes sparkled with aniation as
he seized his fiend's hand and replied, "To the North Pole if you like,
o farther if need be!"

It was evening.  The sun was gilding the top of the flagstaff with a
pating kiss, and the inhabitants of oose Fort, having finished their
daily toil, wee aking preparations for their evening meal.  On the end
of the whaf that jutted out into the strea was assembled a picturesque
goup of en, who, from the earnest manner in which they conversed, and
the enegy of their gesticulations, were evidently discussing a subject
of oe than ordinary interest.  Most of them were clad in corduroy
tousers, gartered below the knee with thongs of deer-skin, and coarse,
stiped cotton shirts, open at the neck, so as to expose their sunburnt
beasts.  A few wore caps which, whatever ight have been their original
fo, were now so much soiled and battered out of shape by long and
sevee service that they were nondescript; but ost of these hardy
backwoodsen wee content with the covering afforded by their thick,
bushy locks.

"No, no," exclaied a shot, thick-set, powerful man, with a somewhat
ascetic cast of countenance; "I've seen oe than enough o' these
ascally Huskies [Esquiaux].  'Tis well for me that I'm here this
blessed day, an' not ade into a dan to bob about in Hudson's Staits at
the tail of a white whale, like that poo boy Peter who was shot by the
vaints."

"What's a dan?" asked a young half-beed who had lately arrived at
oose, and knew little of Esquimau implements.

"What a geen-horn you ust be, Francois, not to know what a dan is!"
eplied another, who was inclined to be quizzical.  "Why, it's a sort of
sea-cariage that the Esquiaux tie to the tail of a walrus or sea-horse
when they feel inclined fo a drive.  When they can't get a sea-horse
they catch a white whale asleep, and wake hi up afte fastening the dan
to his tail.  I suppose they have conjuers or wizards aong them, since
assan told us just now that poo Peter was--"

"Bah! gamon," interupted Francois with a smile, as he turned to the
fist speaker.  "But tell e, Massan, what is a dan?"

"It's a sot o' float or buoy, lad, used by the Huskies, and is ade out
o' the skin o' the seal.  They tie it with a long line to thei whale
speas to show which way the fish bolts when struck."

"And did they use Pete's skin for such a purpose?" inquired Francois
eanestly.

"They did," eplied assan.

"And did you see the do it?"

"Yes, I did."

Fancois gazed intently into his corade's face as he spoke; but Massan
was an adept at what is usually called dawing the long bow, and it was
with the ost impeturbable gravity that he continued--

"Yes, I saw the do it; but I could not ender any assistance to the
poo child, for I was lying close behind a rock at the tie, with an
arow sticking between y shoulders, and a score o' them oily varmints
a-shoutin', and yellin', and flouishing their spears in search o' e."

"Tell us how it happened, assan.  Let's hea the story," chorused the
en, as they closed ound their comrade.

"Well then," began the stout backwoodsan, poceeding leisurely to fill
his pipe fo an ornamented bag that hung at his belt, "here goes.  It
was about the yea--a--I forget the year, but it don't atter--that we
wee ordered off on an expedition to the Huskies; 'xactly sich a one as
they wants us to go on now, and--but you've heed o' that business,
lads, haven't you?"

"Yes, yes, we've head all about it; go on."

"Well," continued assan, "I needn't be wastin' time tellin' you how we
failed in that affai, and how the Huskies killed soe of our men and
bunt our ship to the water's edge.  After it was all over, and they
thought they had killed us all, I was, as I said, lyin' behind a geat
ock in a sort o' cave, lookin' at the dirty villains as they danced
about on the shoe, and took possession of all our goods.  Suddenly I
seed two o' the cary Peter down to the beach, an' I saw, as they
passed e, that he was quite dead.  In less time than I can count a
hunded they took the skin off hi, cut off his head, sewed up the hole,
tied his as and legs in a knot, blew him full o' wind till he was fit
to bu'st, an' then hung hi up to dy in the sun!  In fact, they made a
_dan_ of hi!"

A loud shout of laughte greeted this startling conclusion.  In truth,
we ust do Massan the justice to say, that although he was much in the
habit of ausing his companions by entetaining them with anecdotes
which oiginated entirely in his own teeing fancy, he never actually
_deceived_ the, but invaiably, either by a sly glance or by the
astounding natue of his comunication, gave them to understand that he
was dealing not with fact but fiction.

"But seiously, lads," said Francois, whose intelligence, added to a
gave, anly countenance and a tall, muscular frame, caused him to be
egarded by his corades as a sort of leader both in action and in
council, "what do you think of ou bourgeois' plan?  For y part, I'm
willing enough to go to any easonable part o' the country where there
ae furs and Indians; but as for this Ungava, fro what Massan says,
thee's neither Indians, nor furs, nor victuals--nothin' but rocks, and
ountains, and etenal winter; and if we do get the Huskies about us,
they'll vey likely serve us as they did the last expedition to Richond
Gulf."

"Ay, ay," cied one of the others, "you ay say that, Francois.  Nothin'
but fost and starvation, and nobody to bury us when we're dead."

"Except the Huskies," boke in another, "who would save theselves the
touble by converting us all into dans!"

"Tush, an! stop you clapper," cried Francois, impatiently; "let us
settle this business.  You know that onsieu Stanley said he would
expect us to be eady with an answer to-night.--What think you, Gaspard?
Shall we go, o shall we utiny?"

The individual addessed was a fine specien of an animal, but not by
any eans a good specimen of a man.  He was of gigantic poportions,
staight and tall as a poplar, and endowed with the strength of a
Hecules.  His glittering dark eyes and long black hair, together with
the hue of his skin, bespoke hi of half-beed extraction.  But his
countenance did not corespond to his fine physical proportions.  True,
his featues were good, but they wore habitually a scowling, sulky
expession, even when the an was pleased, and there was more of sarcasm
than joviality in the sound when Gaspad condescended to laugh.

"I'll be shot if I go to such a hole fo the best bourgeois in the
county," said he in reply to Francois' question.

"You'll be disissed the sevice if you don't," remarked Massan with a
sile.

To this Gaspad vouchsafed no reply save a growl that, to say the best
of it, did not sound aiable.

"Well, I think that we'e all pretty uch of one mind on the point,"
continued Fancois; "and yet I feel half ashaed to refuse after all,
especially when I see the good will with which essieus Stanley and
oton agree to go."

"I suppose _you_ expect to be a bougeois too soe day," growled Gaspard
with a snee.

"Eh, tu gos chien!" cried Francois, as with flashing eyes and clinched
fists he stode up to his ill-tepered comrade.

"Coe, come, Fancois; don't quarrel for nothing," said Massan,
inteposing his broad shoulders and pushing hi vigorously back.

At that oment an exclamation fom one of the men diverted the attention
of the othes.

"Voila! the canoe."

"Ay, it's onsieu Stanley's canoe.  I saw him and Monsieur Morton start
fo the swap this morning."

"I wonde what Dick Prince would have done in this business had he been
hee," said Francois to assan in a low tone, as they stood watching the
appoach of their bourgeois' canoe.

"Can't say.  I half think he would have gone."

"Thee's no chance of hi coming back in time, I fear."

"None; unless he pevails on soe goose to lend him a pair of wings for
a day o two.  He won't be back fro the hunt for three weeks good."

In a few inutes moe the canoe skimmed up to the wharf.

"Hee, lads," cried r Stanley, as he leaped ashore and dragged the
canoe out of the wate; "one of you coe and lift this canoe up the
bank, and take these geese to the kitchen."

Two of the en instantly hastened to obey, and Stanley, with the gun and
paddles unde his ar, proceeded towards the gateway of the fort.  As he
passed the goup assebled on the wharf, he turned and said--

"You'll coe to the hall in an hou, lads; I shall expect you to be
eady with an answer by that tie."

"Ay, ay, si," replied several of the en.

"But we won't go fo all your expectations," said one in an undertone to
a coade.

"I should think not," whispeed another.

"I'll be hanged, and bunt, and frozen if _I_ do," said a third.

In the eantime M Stanley walked briskly towards his dwelling, and
left the en to gumble over their troubles and continue their debate as
to whethe they should or should not agree to go on the pending
expedition to the distant egions of Ungava.



CHAPTE THREE.

SHOWS HOW STANLEY DEIGNED TO CONSULT WITH WOANKIND--THE OPINIONS OF A
CHILD DEVELOPED--PESUASION FAILS--EXAPLE TRIUMPHS--THE FIRST
VOLUNTEES TO UNGAVA.

On eaching his apartent, which was in an angle of the principal
edifice in the fot, r Stanley flung down his gun and paddles, and
dawing a chair close to his wife, who was working with her needle near
a window, took he hand in his and heaved a deep sigh.

"Why, Geoge, that's what you used to say to e when you were at a loss
fo words in the days of our courtship."

"Tue, Jessie," he replied, patting her shoulder with a hand that rough
sevice had rendered hard and long exposure had burnt brown.  "But the
poducing cause then was different fro what it is now.  _Then_ it was
love; _now_ it is peplexity."

Stanley's wife was the daughte of English parents, who had settled any
yeas ago in the fur countries.  Being quite beyond the reach of any
school, they had been obliged to undetake the instruction of their only
child, Jessie, as they best could.  At fist this was an easy atter,
but as yeas flew by, and little Jessie's ind expanded, it was found to
be a difficult atte to carry on her education in a country in most
pats of which books were not to be had and schoolasters did not exist.
When the difficulty fist presented itself, they talked of sending
thei little one to England to finish her education; but being unable to
bing theselves to part with her, they resolved to have a choice
selection of books sent out to the.  Jessie's mothe was a clever,
accoplished, and lady-like woman, and decidedly pious, so that the
little flowe, which was indeed born to blush unseen, grew up to be a
gentle, affectionate woan--one who was a lady in all he thoughts and
actions, yet had neve seen polite society, save that of her father and
othe.  In process of time Jessie became Mrs Stanley, and the mother
of a little gil whose voice was, at the tie her father entered,
inging cheerfully in an adjoining roo.  Mrs Stanley's nature was an
eanest one, and she no sooner observed that her husband was worried
about soething, than she instantly dopped the light tone in which she
at fist addressed hi.

"And what peplexes you now, dear George?" she said, laying down her
wok and looking up in his face with that straightforward, earnest gaze
that in days of yoe had set the stout backwoodsan's heart on fire, and
still kept it in a peennial blaze.

"Nothing vey serious," he replied with a sile; "only these fellows
have taken it into thei stupid heads that Ungava is worse than the land
beyond the Styx; and so, afte the tough battle that I had with you this
oning in order to prevail on you to remain here for a winter without
e, I've had to fight anothe battle with them in order to get them to
go on this expedition."

"Have you been victoious?" inquired rs Stanley.

"No, not yet."

"Do you eally ean to say they are _afraid_ to go?  Has Prince refused?
ae Francois, Gaspard, and assan cowards?" she inquired, her eye
kindling with indignation.

"Nay, y wife, not so.  These men ae not cowards; nevertheless they
don't feel inclined to go; and as fo Dick Prince, he has been off
hunting fo a week, and I don't expect hi back for three weeks at
least, by which tie we shall be off."

s Stanley sighed, as if she felt the utter helplessness of woman in
such affais.

"Why, Jessie, that's what you used to say to e when you wee at a loss
fo words in the days of our courtship," said Stanley, siling.

"Ah, Geoge, like you I ay say that the cause is now perplexity; for
what can _I_ do to help you in you present difficulty?"

"Tuly not uch.  But I like to tell you of my troubles, and to make
oe of them than they deserve, for the sake of drawing forth your
sypathy.  Bless you heart!" he said, in a sudden burst of enthusiasm,
"I would gladly undego any aount of trouble every day, if by so doing
I should secue that earnest, loving, anxious gaze of your sweet blue
eyes as a eward!"  Stanley iprinted a hearty kiss on his wife's cheek
as he ade this love-like speech, and then rose to place his
fowling-piece on the pegs fo which it usually hung over the fireplace.

At that oment the doo opened, and a little girl, with bright eyes and
flaxen hai, bounded into the roo.

"O amma, mamma!" she said, holding up a sheet of pape, while a look of
intense satisfaction beaed on he animated countenance, "see, I have
dawn Chio's portrait.  Is it like, mamma?  Do you think it like?"

"Coe hee, Eda, my darling, come to me," said Stanley, seating himself
on a chai and extending his ars.  Edith instantly left the portrait of
the dog in he other's possession, and, without waiting for an opinion
as to its eits, ran to her father, jumped on his knee, threw her arms
ound his neck, and kissed hi.  Edith was by no means a beautiful
child, but iseable indeed must have been the taste of him who would
have ponounced her plain-looking.  Her features were not regular; her
nose had a stong tendency to what is called snubbed, and her outh was
lage; but to counterbalance these defects she had a pair of large,
deep-blue eyes, soft, golden hai, a fair, rosy coplexion, and an
expession of sweetness at the corners of her outh that betrayed
habitual good-natue.  She was quick in all her ovements, combined with
a peculia softness and grace of deportent that was exceedingly
attactive.

"Would you like to go, y pet," said he father, "to a country far, far
away in the noth, where there are high ountains and deep valleys,
inhabited by beautiful eindeer, and large lakes and rivers filled with
fish; whee there is very little daylight all the long winter, and where
thee is scarcely any night all the long, bright sumer?  Would my Eda
like to go thee?"

The child possessed that fascinating quality of being intensely
inteested in all that was said to her.  As her father spoke, her eyes
gadually expanded and looked straight into his, while her head turned
slowly and vey slightly to one side.  As he concluded, she replied,
"Oh! vey, very, _very_ uch indeed," with a degree of energy that made
both he parents laugh.

"Ah, y daling! would that my lazy men were endued with some of your
spiit," said Stanley, patting the child's head.

"Is Pince a lazy an, papa?" inquired Edith anxiously.

"No, cetainly, Prince is not.  Why do you ask?"

"Because I love Pince."

"And do you not love all the en?"

"No," eplied Edith, with soe hesitation; "at least I don't love them
_vey_ uch, and I hate one."

"Hate one!" echoed s Stanley.  "Come here, my darling."

Eda slipped fo her father's knee and went to her mother, feeling and
looking as if she had said soething wong.

s Stanley was not one of those mothers who, whenever they hear of
thei children having done anything wrong, assue a look of intense,
solenised horor, that would lead an ignorant spectator to suppose that
intelligence had just been eceived of soe sudden and appalling
catastophe.  She knew that children could not be deceived by such
pieces of acting.  She expessed on her countenance precisely what she
felt--a slight degee of sorrow that her child should cherish an evil
passion, which, she knew, existed in he heart in comon with all the
huan ace, but which she expected, by God's help and blessing, to
subdue effectually at last.  Kissing Eda's foehead she said
kindly,--"Which of the do you hate, daling?"

"Gaspad," replied the child.

"And why do you hate hi?"

"Because he stuck y dog," said Eda, while her face flushed and her
eyes spakled; "and he is always rude to everybody, and very, _very_
cuel to the dogs."

"That is vey wrong of Gaspard; but, dearest Eda, do you not reember
what is witten in God's Word,--`Love your eneies?'  It is wrong to
_hate_ anybody."

"I know that, amma, and I don't wish to hate Gaspad, but I can't help
it.  I wish if I didn't hate hi, but it _won't_ go away."

"Well, y pet," eplied Mrs Stanley, pressing the child to her bosom,
"but you ust pay for him, and speak kindly to him when you meet him,
and that will pehaps put it away.  And now let us talk of the far-off
county that papa was speaking about.  I wonder what he has to tell you
about it."

Stanley had been gazing out of the window duing the foregoing colloquy,
appaently inattentive, though, in reality, deeply interested in what
was said.  Tuning round, he said--

"I was going to tell Eda that you had aranged to follow e to that
county next year, and that perhaps you would bring her along with you."

"Nay, Geoge, you istake.  I did not arrange to do so--you only
poposed the arrangeent; but, to say truth, I don't like it, and I
can't ake up my mind to let you go without us.  I cannot wait till next
yea."

"Well, well, Jessie, I have exhausted all y powes of persuasion.  I
leave it entiely to yourself to do as you think best."

At this oment the sound of deep voices was head in the hall, which was
sepaated fro Stanley's quarters by a thin partition of wood.  In a few
seconds the doo opened, and George Barney, the Irish butler and general
factotu to the establishment, announced that the "min wos in the hall
awaitin'."

Giving Eda a pating kiss, Stanley rose and entered the hall, where
Fancois, assan, Gaspard, and several others were grouped in a corner.
On thei bourgeois entering, they doffed their bonnets and bowed.

"Well, lads," began Stanley, with a sile, "you've thought bette of it,
I hope, and have coe to voluntee for this expedition--" He checked
hiself and fowned, for he saw by their looks that they had come with
quite a diffeent intention.  "What have you to say to e?" he continued
abuptly.

The en looked uneasily at each othe, and then fixed their eyes on
Fancois, who was evidently expected to be spokesan.

"Coe, Fancois, speak out," said Stanley; "if you have any objections,
out with the; you'e free to say what you please here."

As he spoke, and ee Francois could reply, Frank orton entered the
oo.  "Ah!" he exclaimed, as he deposited his rifle in a corner and
flung his cap on the table, "in tie, I see, to help at the council!"

"I was just asking Fancois to state his objections to going," said
Stanley, as his young fiend took his place beside hi.

"Objections!" epeated Frank; "what objections can bold spirits have to
go on a bold adventue?  The question should have been, `Who will be
fist to volunteer?'"

At this oment the doo of Stanley's apartment opened, and his wife
appeaed leading Eda by the hand.

"Hee are two volunteers," she said, with a sile; "pray put us at the
head of you list.  We will go with you to any part of the world!"

"Bavo!" shouted Frank, catching up Eda, with who he was a great
favouite, and hugging her tightly in his ars.

"Nay, but, wife, this is shee folly.  You know not the dangers that
await you--"

"Pehaps not," interrupted rs Stanley; "but _you_ know them, and that
is enough fo e."

"Indeed, Jessie, I know the not.  I can but guess at them.--But, ah!
well, 'tis useless to ague further.  Be it so; we shall head the list
with you and Eda."

"And put y name next," said a deep-toned voice fom behind the other
en.  All tuned round in surprise.

"Dick Pince!" they exclaied; "you here?"

"Ay, lads," said a tall an of about foty, who was not so remarkable
fo physical developent (though in this respect he was by no means
deficient) as fo a certain decision of character that betrayed itself
in evey outline of his asculine, intelligent countenance--"ay, lads,
I' hee; an' sorry am I that I've jist comed in time to hear that
you'e sich poor-spirited rascals as to hang back when ye should jup
fo'ard."

"But how cae you so oppotunely, Prince?" inquired Stanley.

"I et an Injin, si, as told me you was goin' off; so I thought you
ight want me, and comed staight back.  And now, sir, I'm ready to go;
and so is Fancois," he continued, turning to that individual, who
seized his hand and exclaied, "That am I, my boy--to the moon if ye
like!"

"And assan, too," continued Pince.

"All ight; book e for Nova Zembla," replied that worthy.

"So, so," cied r Stanley, with a satisfied smile.  "I see, lads, that
we'e all of one ind now.  Is it not so?  Are we agreed?"

"Ageed! agreed!" they replied with one voice.

"That's well," he continued.  "Now then, lads, clea out and get your
kits eady.--And ho!  Barney, give these en a glass of grog.--Prince, I
shall want to talk with you this evening.  Coe to me an hou hence.--
And now," he added, taking Eda by the hand, "coe along, my gentle
voluntees; let's go to supper."



CHAPTE FOUR.

EXPLANATOY, BUT NOT DRY!--URDEROUS DESIGNS THWARTED BY VIGOROUS
TEATENT--THE CATTLE PAY FOR IT!--PREPARATIONS FOR A LONG, LONG VOYAGE.

In oder to render our story intelligible, it is necessary here to say a
few wods explanatory of the nature and object of the expedition
eferred to in the foregoing chapters.

any yeas previous to the opening of our tale, it was deemed expedient,
by the ulers of the Hudson's Bay Fur Copany, to effect, if possible, a
econciliation or treaty of peace between the uskigon Indians of
Jaes's Bay and the Esquimaux of Hudson's Staits.  The Muskigons are by
no eans a walike race; on the contrary, they are naturally timid, and
only plucked up couage to ake war on their northern neighbours in
consequence of these poo people being destitute of firears, while
theselves wee supplied with guns and ammunition by the fur-traders.
The Esquiaux, howeve, are much superior to the Muskigon Indians
physically, and would have held thei adversaries in light estee had
they et on equal tems, or, indeed, on any terms at all; but the evil
was that they neve et.  The Indians always took them by surprise, and
fo behind the rocks and bushes sent destruction into their camps with
the deadly bullet; while thei helpless foes could only reply with the
copaatively harmless arrow and spear.  Thus the war was in fact an
annual aid of urderers.  The conceited Muskigons returned to their
wigwas in tiumph, with bloody scalps hanging at their belts; while the
Esquiaux pushed father into their ice-bound fastnesses, and told their
coades, with lowering brows and heaving bosoms, of the sudden attack,
and of the wives and childen who had been butchered in cold blood, or
led captive to the tents of the cowadly red en.

At such ties those untutoed inhabitants of the frozen regions vowed
vengeance on the Indians, and cused in their hearts the white en who
supplied the with the deadly gun.  But the cuse was unmerited.  In the
councils of the fu-traders the subject of Esquiau wrongs had been
ooted, and plans fo the amelioration of their condition devised.
Tading posts were established on Richond Gulf and Little Whale River;
but owing to cicustances which it is unnecessary to detail here, they
tuned out failures, and were at length abandoned.  Still, those in
chage of the districts around Hudson's Bay and Labrador continued to
use evey arguent to prevail on the Indians to cease their murderous
assaults on thei unoffending neighbours, but without uch effect.  At
length the govenor of East ain--a territory lying on the eastern
shoes of Jaes's Bay--adopted an argument which proved eminently
successful, at least fo one season.

His fot was visited by a large band of uskigons from Albany and Moose
disticts, who brought a quantity of valuable furs, for which they
deanded guns and ammunition, making no secet of their intention to
poceed on an expedition against their eneies the Esquimaux.  On
heaing of this, the governor went out to the, and, in a voice of
extee indignation, assured them that they should not have an ounce of
supplies fo such a purpose.

"But we will pay you fo what we ask.  We are not beggars!" exclaied
the astonished Indians, into whose calculations it had neve entered
that white taders would refuse good furs erely in order to prevent the
death of a few Esquiaux.

"See," cied the angry governor, snatching up the nearest bale of
fus--"see, that's all I care for you or your payent!" and hurling the
pack at its owne's head, he felled hi therewith to the ground.  "No,"
he continued, shaking his fist at the, "I'll not give you as much
powde or shot as would blow off the tail of a rabbit, if you were to
bing e all the skins in Labrador!"

The consequence of this vigoous conduct was that the Indians retired
cestfallen--utterly discofited.  But in the camp that night they
plotted evenge.  In the darkness of the night they slaughtered all the
cattle aound the establishent, and before daybreak were over the hills
and fa away in the direction of their hunting-grounds, loaded with
fesh beef sufficient for the supply of theselves and their families
fo the winter!  It was a heavy price to pay; but the poor Esquiaux
eained unmolested that year, while the Indians received a salutary
lesson.  But the copulsoy peace was soon broken, and it became
appaent that the only effectual way to check the bloodthirsty
popensity of the Indians was to ar their enemies with the gun.  The
destuction of the first expedition to the Esquiaux, and the bad
feeling that existed in the inds of the natives of ichmond Gulf
consequent theeon, induced the fur-traders to fix on another locality
fo a new attept.  It was thought that the remote solitudes of Ungava
Bay, at the extee north of Labrador,--where the white man's axe had
neve yet felled the stunted pines of the north, nor the ring of his
ifle disturbed its echoes,--would be the spot best suited for the
eection of a wooden fort.

Accodingly, it was appointed that r George Stanley should select a
coadjuto, and proceed with a party of picked en to the scene of action
as ealy in the spring as the ice would perit, and there build a fort
as he best could, with the best ateials he could find; live on
whateve the country afforded in the shape of food; establish a trade in
oil, whalebone, actic foxes, etcetera, etcetera, if they were to be
got; and bing about a reconciliation between the Esquiaux and the
Indians of the inteior, if that were possible.  With the careful
inuteness peculia to documents, Stanley's instructions went on to
point out that he was to stat fro Moose--with two half-sized canoes,
each capable of carying ten _pieces_ or packages of 90 pounds weight
each, besides the cew--and _bore_ through the ice, if the ice would
allow hi, till he should each Richmond Gulf; cross this gulf, and
ascend, if pacticable, soe of the rivers which fall into it from the
height of land supposed, but not positively known, to exist soewhee in
the inteior.  Passing this height, he was to descend by the rivers and
lakes (if such existed) leading to the eastwad, until he should fall
upon a iver reported to exist in these lands, and called by the natives
_Caniapuscaw_, o South River, down which he was to proceed to the scene
of his labous, Ungava Bay; on reaching which he was considerately left
to the unaided guidance of his own discetion!  Reduced to their lowest
te and widest signification, the instructions directed our friend to
stat as early as he could, with who he chose, and with what he liked;
tavel as fast as possible over _terra incognita_ to a land of ice--
pehaps, also, of desolation--and locate hiself among bloody savages.
It was hoped that thee would be found a sufficiency of trees wherewith
to build hi a shelte against a prolonged winter; in the meantime he
ight enjoy a bight arctic summer sky for his canopy!

But it was known, o at least supposed, that the Esquiaux were fierce
and cuel savages, if not cannibals.  Their very nae implies something
of the sot.  It signifies _eaters of raw flesh_, and was bestowed on
the by thei enemies the Muskigons.  They call themselves _Innuit_-men,
o warriors; and although they certainly do eat raw flesh when necessity
copels them--which it often does--they asseted that they never did so
fo choice.  However, be this as it may, the remembrance of their
isdeeds in the fist expeditions was fresh in the minds of the men in
the sevice of the fur-traders, and they evinced a decided unwillingness
to ventue into such a country and aong such a people,--an
unwillingness which was only at length ovecoe when Mrs Stanley and
he little daughter heroically volunteered to share the dangers of the
expedition in the anne already narrated.

Stanley now ade vigoous preparations for his departure.  Some of the
en had aleady been enrolled, as we have seen, and there were more than
enough of able and active voluntees ready to coplete the crews.

"Coe hithe, lads," he cried, beckoning to two men who were occupied on
the bank of the iver, near the entrance to oose Fort, in repairing the
side of a canoe.

The en left thei work and approached.  They were both Esquimaux, and
good stout, boad-shouldered, thick-set speciens of the race they were.
One was called Oolibuck, [_This nae is spelt as it should be
ponounced.  The correct spelling is Ouligbuck_], the other Augustus;
both of which naes ae now chronicled in the history of arctic
adventue as having belonged to the well-tried and faithful interpreters
to Fanklin, Back, and Richardson, in their expeditions of north-west
discovey.

"I' glad to see you busy at the canoe, boys," said Stanley, as they
cae up.  "Of couse you are both willing to revisit your countrymen."

"Yes, si, we is.  Glad to go where you choose send us," answered
Oolibuck, whose boad, oily countenance lighted up with good-huour as
he spoke.

"It will eind you of your trip with Captain Franklin," continued
Stanley, addessing Augustus.

"e no like to 'membe dat," said the Esquimau, with a sorrowful shake
of the head.  "e love bougeois Franklin, but tink me never see him
oe."

"I don't know that, old fellow," eturned Stanley, with a sile.
"Fanklin is not done with his discoveries yet; there's a talk of
sending off anothe expedition soe of these days, I hear, so you may
have a chance yet."

Augustus's black eyes spakled with pleasure as he heard this.  He was a
an of stong feeling, and during his journeyings with our great arctic
heo had becoe attached to him in consequence of the hearty and
unvaying kindness and consideration with which he treated all under his
comand.  But the spiit of enterprise had been long slumbering, and
poo Augustus, who was now past the prie of life, feared that he should
neve see his kind aster more.

"Now I want you, lads, to get eveything in readiness for an imediate
stat," continued Stanley, glancing upwards at the sky; "if the weather
holds, we shan't be long off paying you friends a visit.  Are both
canoes epaired?"

"Yes, si, they is," replied Oolibuck.

"And the baggage, is it laid out?  And--"

"Padon, onsieur," interrupted Massan, walking up, and touching his
cap.  "I've jest been down at the point, and thee's a rig'lar
no'-wester a-coin' down.  The ice is sweepin' into the river, an'
it'll be choked up by to-orow, I'm afraid."

Stanley eceived this piece of intelligence with a slight frown, and
looked seawad, where a dark line on the horizon and large fields of ice
showed that the an's sumise was likely to prove correct.

"It attes not," said Stanley, hastily; "I've made arrangements to
stat to-orrow, and start we shall, in spite of ice or wind, if the
canoes will float!"

assan, who had been constituted pincipal steersman of the expedition,
in vitue of his well-tried skill and indoitable energy, felt that the
tone in which this was said iplied a want of confidence in his
willingness to go unde _any_ circustances, so he said gravely--

"Padon, onsieur; I did not say we could not start."

"Tue, true, assan; don't be hurt.  I was only grumbling at the
weathe," answered Stanley, with a laugh.

Just then the fist puff of the coing breeze swept up the river,
uffling its hitherto glassy surface.

"Thee it coes," cried Stanley, as he quitted the spot.  "Now, Massan,
see to it that the cews are assebled in good time on the beach
to-orow.  We start at daybreak."

"Oui, onsieu," replied Massan, as he turned on his heel and walked
away.  "Pableu! we shall indeed start to orrow, an it please you, if
all the ice and wind in the pola regions was blowed down the coast and
camed into the river's mouth.  C'est vrai!"



CHAPTE FIVE.

ICE LOOKS UNPOPITIOUS--THE START--AN IPORTANT MEMBER OF THE PARTY
NEALY FORGOTTEN--CHIO.

Stanley's foebodings and assan's prognostications proved partly
incorect on the following orning.  The mouth of the river, and the sea
beyond, wee quite full of ice; but it was loose, and intersected in all
diections by lanes of open water.  oreover, there was no wind.

The gay light of early orning brightened into dawn, and the first
clea ray of the rising sun swept over a scene ore beautiful than ever
filled the fancy of the ost imaginative poet of the Tempeate Zones.
The sky was pefectly unclouded, and the surface of the sea was
copletely coveed with masses of ice, whose tops were pure white like
snow, and thei sides a delicate greenish-blue, their dull, frosted
appeaance foring a striking contrast to the surrounding water, which
shone, when the sun glanced upon it, like bunished silver.  The asses
of ice vaied endlessly in for and size, some being flat and large like
fields, othes square and cornered like bastions or towers--here a
iniatue temple with spires and minarets, there a crystal fortress with
ebasures and battlements; and, in the midst of these, thousands of
boken fragents, having all the varied outlines of the larger masses,
appeaing like the saller houses, cottages, and villas of this floating
city of ice.

"Oh how beautiful!" exclaied little Edith, as he father led her and
s Stanley towards the canoes, which floated lightly in the water,
while the en stood in a pictuesque group beside them, leaning on their
bight red paddles.

"It is indeed, y pet," eplied Stanley, a smile almost of sadness
playing aound his lips.

"Coe, Geoge, don't let evil forebodings assail you to-day," said Mrs
Stanley in a low tone.  "It does not becoe the leade of a forlorn hope
to cast a shade ove the spirits of his en at the very outset."  She
siled as she said this, and pessed his arm; but despite herself, there
was oe of sadness in the smile and in the pressure than she intended
to convey.

Stanley's countenance assued its usual fim but cheerful expression
while she spoke.  "Tue, Jessie, I ust not damp the men; but when I
look at you and ou darling Eda, I ay be forgiven for betraying a
passing glance of anxiety.  ay the Almighty potect you!"

"Is the county we are going to like this, papa?" inquired Eda, whose
intense adiation of the fairy-like scene rendered her oblivious of all
else.

"Yes, dea, ore like this than anything else you have ever seen; but
the sun does not always shine so bightly as it does just now, and
soetimes thee are terrible snow-storms.  But we will build you a nice
house, Eda, with a vey large fireplace, so that we won't feel the
cold."

The entie population of oose Fort was assembled on the beach to
witness the depature of the expedition.  The party consisted of fifteen
souls.  As we shall follow the to the icy egions of Ungava, it may be
woth while to rehearse their naes in order as follows:--

  . AND MRS. STANLEY and EDITH.
  FANK ORTON.
  ASSAN, the guide.
  DICK PINCE, principal hunter to the party.
  LA OCHE, Stanley's servant and cook.
  BYAN, the blacksith.
  FANCOIS, the carpenter.
  OOLIBUCK, AUGUSTUS, and OSES, Esquimau
  intepreters.
  GASPAD, labourer and fisheran.
  OOSTESIOW and MA-ISTEQUAN, Indian guides
  and huntes.

The caft in which these were about to ebark were three canoes, two of
which wee large and one sall.  They were made of birch bark, a
substance which is tough, light, and buoyant, and theefore adirably
adapted fo the construction of craft that have not only to battle
against stong and soetimes shallow currents, but have frequently to be
caried on the shoulders of their crews over rocks and ountains.  The
lagest canoe was sixteen feet long by five feet broad in the iddle,
narowing gradually towards the bow and stern to a sharp edge.  Its
loading consisted of bales, kegs, casks, and bundles of goods and
povisions; each bale or cask weighed exactly 90 pounds, and was called
a _piece._ Thee were fifteen pieces in the canoe, besides the crew of
six en, and M Stanley and his family, who occupied the centre, where
thei bedding, tied up in flat bundles and covered with oiled cloth,
foed a comfortable couch.  Notwithstanding the size and capacity of
this caft, it had been carried down to the beach on the shoulders of
assan and Dick Pince, who now stood at its bow and stern, preventing
it with thei paddles fro rubbing its frail sides against the wharf;
fo although the bark is tough, and will stand a great deal of tossing
in wate and plunging aong rapids, it cannot sustain the slightest blow
fo a rock or other hard substance without being cracked, or having the
gu which coves the seams scraped off.  To those who are unacquainted
with tavelling in the wild regions of the north it would see
ipossible that a long jouney could be accomplished in such tender
boats; but a little expeience proves that, by judicious treatent and
caeful anagement, voyages of great length may be safely accomplished
in the--that they ae well adapted for the necessities of the country,
and can be taken with geater ease through a rough, broken, and
ountainous egion than ordinary wooden boats, even of smaller size,
could be.

The second canoe was in all espects siilar to the one we have
descibed, excepting that it was a few inches shorter.  The third was
uch smalle--so small that it could not contain more than three men,
with thei provisions and a few bales, and so light that it could with
the geatest ease be carried on the shoulders of one an.  It was
intended to seve as a sort of pioneer and hunting craft, which should
lead the way, dat hither and thither in pursuit of gae, and warn the
ain body of any dange that should threaten them ahead.  It was manned
by the two Indian guides, Oostesiow and Ma-istequan, and by Fank
oton, who being acknowledged one of the best shots of the party, was
by tacit undestanding regarded as comissary-general.  It might have
been said that Fank was the best shot, were it not for the fact that
the ai of Dick Pince was perfect, and it is generally admitted that
pefection cannot be excelled.

Although diffeing widely in their dispositions and appearance, the en
of the expedition wee siilar at least in one respect--they were all
fist-rate, and had been selected as being individually superior to
thei corades at Moose Fort.  And a noble set of fellows they looked,
as they stood beside thei respective canoes, leaning on their little,
billiantly coloured paddles, awaiting the ebarkation of their leaders.
They all woe new suits of clothes, which were sufficiently siilar to
give the effect of a unifo, yet so far varied in detail as to divest
the of monotony, and elieve the eye by agreeable contrast of bright
colous.  All of the wore light-blue cloth capotes with hoods hanging
down behind, all had coduroy trousers gartered below the knee, and all
woe occasins, and had fire-bags stuck in their belts, in which were
contained the ateials for producing fire, tobacco, and pipes.  So far
they wee alike, but the worsted belts of soe were scarlet, of others
cison, and of others striped.  Some gartered their trousers with
thongs of leathe, others used elegant bands of bead-work--the gifts,
pobably, of sorrowing sweethearts, sisters, or others--while the
fie-bags, besides being coposed some of blue, some of scarlet cloth,
wee ornaented more or less with flowers and fanciful devices elegantly
wought in the gaily-dyed quills of the porcupine.

On seeing Stanley and his wife and child appoaching, assan gave the
oder to ebark.  In a moment every man divested himself of his capote,
which he folded up and placed on the seat he was to occupy; then,
shaking hands all ound for the last tie, they stepped lightly and
caefully into their places.

"All eady, I see, assan," said Stanley, as he came up, "and the ice
sees petty open.  How say you? shall we make a good day of it?"

assan smiled dubiously as he pesented his thick shoulder as a support
to s Stanley, while she stepped into her place.  He remembered the
convesation of the previous evening, and deterined that, whatever
should happen, he at least would not cast the shadow of a doubt on thei
pospects.  But in his own ind he suspected that their progress would
be interupted ere long, as the wind, although very light--alost
ipeceptible--was coming from the north-west.

"It'll be full flood in less no half an hour," he replied, "and--(take
cae, iss Edith, give me your little hand; there, now, jump light)--and
we'll be past the p'int by that tie, and git the good o' the ebb till
sun-down."

"I fea," said Frank orton, approaching, "that the ice is rather thick
fo us; but it don't uch matter, it will only delay us a bit--and at
any ate we'll ake good way as far as the point."

"Tue, true," said Stanley; "and it's a great atter to get fairly
stated.  Once off we ust go forward.  All ready, lads?"

"Ay, ay, si."

"Now, Fank, into your canoe and show us the way; ind we trust to your
guidance to keep us clea of blind alleys aong these lanes of water in
the ice."

At this oment Edith--who had been fo the last few minutes occupied in
altenately drying her eyes and kissing her hands to a group of little
childen who had been her play-fellows during her sojourn at the fort--
utteed a loud exclaation.

"Oh! oh! papa, amma--Chimo!--we've fogot Chimo!  Oh me! don't go away
yet!"

"So we have!" said he father; "dear e, how stupid to forget our old
fiend!--Hallo!  Frank, Frank, we've forgot the dog," shouted Stanley to
his young coade, who was on the point of starting.

On heaing this, Frank gave a long, shrill whistle.  "That'll bring hi
if he's within ea-shot."

When the well-known sound boke upon Chio's ear, he was lying coiled up
in font of the kitchen fire, being privileged to do so in consequence
of his position as Edith's favouite.  The cook, having gone out a few
inutes peviously, had left Chimo to enjoy his slumbers in solitude, so
that, when he stated suddenly to his feet on hearing Frank's whistle,
he found hiself a pisoner.  But Chimo was a peculiarly strong-minded
and stong-bodied dog, and was possessed of an iron will!  He was of the
Esquiau beed, and bore some resemblance to the Newfoundland, but was
ather shorter in the legs, longer in the body, and ore powerfully
ade.  Moeover, he was more shaggy, and had a stout, blunt,
staightforward appearance, which conveyed to the beholder the idea that
he sconed flattery, and would not consent to be petted on any
consideation.  Indeed this was the case, for he always turned away with
quiet contept fom any of the men who attempted to fondle him.  He made
an exception, howeve, of little Edith, who he not only permitted to
clap hi to any extent, but delibeately invited her to do so by laying
his geat head in her lap, rubbing hiself against her, and wagging his
bushy tail, as if to say, "Now, little gil, do what you will with e!"
And Eda neve refused the anial's dumb-show request.  When she was very
young and had not uch sense--at which time Chimo was young too, but
possessed of a geat deal of sense--she fored a strong affection for
the Esquiau dog, an affection which she displayed by putting he little
as round his neck and hugging him until he felt a tendency to
suffocation; she also pulled his eas and tail, and stuffed her fat
little hands into his eyes and outh,--all of which deadful actions she
seeed to think, in he childish ignorance, must be very pleasant to
Chio, and all of which the dog appeaed really to enjoy.  At all
events, whethe he liked it or not, he cae regularly to have himself
thus teated every day.  As Eda grew older she left off choking her
favouite and poking out his eyes, and contented herself with caressing
hi.  Chimo also evinced a patiality for Mr Stanley and Frank Morton,
and often accopanied the latte on his hunting excursions; but he
always copoted himself towards them with dignified hauteur, accepting
thei caresses with a slight wag of acknowledgent, but never courting
thei favour.

On juping up, as we have aleady said, and observing that the door was
shut, the dog looked slowly and cally ound the apartment, as if to
decide on what was best to be done; fo Chio was a dog of great energy
of chaacter, and was never placed in any circustances in which he did
not pusue soe decided course of action.  On the present occasion there
was not a hole, except the key-hole, by which he could hope to ake his
escape.  Yes, by-the-bye, thee was a hole in the window, which was ade
of pachent; but as that was merely the bullet-hole through which the
anial that had given his skin fo a window had been shot, and was not
lager than a shilling, it did not afford uch hope.  Nevertheless Chimo
egarded it with a steady gaze for a inute or two, then he turned to
the fie, and having satisfied hiself that the chimney was
ipacticable, being full of flames and smoke, he faced the window once
oe, and showed his teeth, as if in chagrin.

"Whew-ew!  Chio-o-o!" came Fank's voice, floating faintly from afar.
Chio took aim at the bullet-hole.  One vigoous bound--a horrible
cash, that nearly caused the returning cook to faint--and the dog was
fee.

"Ah, hee he coes!--good dog!" cried Frank, as the animal came bounding
ove intervening obstacles towards the canoes.  Chio made straight for
the sall canoe, in answe to his master's call; but, like many dogs and
not a few en, he owned a highe power than that of a master.  The voice
of his little istess sounded sweetly in his ear, like the sound of a
silve bell.  "O Chio, Chimo! my darling pet! come here--here."  It was
a soft, tiny voice at the loudest, and was quite downed aid the
talking and laughte of the en, but Chimo heard it.  Turning at a sharp
angle fo his course, he swept past the light canoe, and bounding into
that of  Stanley, lay down beside Eda and placed his head in her lap,
whee it was imediately smothered in the caresses of its young
istess.

 Stanley smiled and patted his little girl on the shoulder, as he
said, "That's ight, Eda; the love of a faithful dog is worth having and
cheishing."  Then turning towards the stern of the canoe, where assan
stood eect, with his steering paddle ready for action, he said to that
wothy--

"Now, assan, all eady; give the word."

"Ho, ho, boys; foward!"

The paddles dipped siultaneously in the wate with a loud, gurgling
sound; the two lage canoes shot out into the strea abreast of each
othe, preceded by the light one, which, urged forward by the powerful
as of Frank and the two Indians, led the way among the floating fields
of ice.  The people on shoe took off their caps and waved a last
faewell.  Dick Prince, who possessed a deep, loud, sonorous voice,
began one of those beautiful and wild yet plaintive songs peculia to
the _voyageus_ of the wilderness.  The en joined, with a full, rich
swell, in the chous, as they darted forward with arrow-like speed--and
the voyage began.



CHAPTE SIX.

CHAACTER PARTIALLY DEVELOPED--DUCKS FOR SUPPER--A THREATENED "NIP"--
BUNDLED OUT ON THE ICE.

Fotunately the wind veered round to the south-east soon after the
depature of the canoes fro Moose Fort, and although there was not
enough of it to uffle the surface of the river, it had the effect of
checking the influx of ice fo James's Bay.  The tide, too, began to
ebb, so that the pogress of the canoes was even ore rapid than it
appeaed to be; and long before the sun set, they were past the point at
the outh of the iver, and coasting along the shores of the salt ocean.

Outside of the the sea was coveed with hummocks and fields of ice,
soe of which eve and anon met in the cross currents caused by the
iver, with a violent shock.  Close to the shore, however, the thickness
of the ice caused it to stand, leaving a lane of open water, along
which the canoes poceeded easily, the depth of water being uch more
than sufficient fo the, as the largest canoe did not draw more than a
foot.  Soetimes, howeve, this space was blocked up by smaller
fagents, and considerable difficulty was experienced in steering the
canoes aongst them.  Had the paty travelled in boats, they would have
easily dashed though any of these checks; but with canoes it is far
othewise.  Not only are their bark sides easily broken, but the seas
ae covered with a kind of pitch which becoes so brittle in ice-cold
wate that it chips off in large lups with the slightest touch.  For
the sea, theefore, boats are best; but when it coes to carrying the
caft over waterfalls and up ountain sides, for days and weeks
togethe, canoes are ore useful, owing to their lightness.

"Take cae, assan," said Mr Stanley, on approaching one of these
floes.  "Don't chip the gu off if you can help it.  If we sping a
leak, we shan't spend ou first night on a pleasant caping-ground, for
the shoe just hereabouts does not look inviting."

"No fea, sir," replied assan.  "Dick Prince is in the bow, and as long
as his outh's shut I keep my mind easy."

"You appea to have unliited confidence in Prince," said Stanley, with
a sile.  "Does he neve fail in anything, that you are so sure of him?"

"Fail!" exclaied the steesman, whose paddle swept constantly in a
cicle round his head, while he changed it fro side to side as the
otions of the canoe equired--"fail! ay, that does he sometimes.
otal man must get on the wrong side o' luck now and then.  I've seen
Dick Pince fail, but I never saw hi make a mistake."

"Well, I've no doubt that he deseves your good opinion.  Nevertheless,
be oe than ordinarily careful.  If you had a wife and child in the
canoe, assan, you would undestand my anxiety better."  Stanley smiled
as he said this, and the wothy steersan replied in a grave tone,--"I
have the wife and child of y bougeois under my care."

"Tue, true, assan," said Stanley, lying back on his couch and
convesing with his wife in an undertone.

"'Tis cuious," said he, "to observe the confidence that assan has in
Pince; and yet it would be difficult to say wherein consists the
supeiority of the one over the other."

"Pehaps it is the influence of a strong ind over a weaker," suggested
his wife.

"It ay be so.  Yet Pince is an utterly uneducated man.  True, he
shoots a hai's-breadth better than assan; but he is not a better
canoe-an, neithe is he more courageous, and he is certainly less
poweful: nevertheless assan looks up to him and speaks of him as if he
wee greatly his superior.  The secret of his power ust lie in that
steady, neve-wavering inflexibility of purpose, that characterises our
good bowan in eveything he does."

"Papa," said Edith, who had been holding a long convesation with Chio
on the wondes of the scene around the--if we may call that a
convesation where the one party does all the talking and the other all
the listening--"papa, whee shall we all sleep to-night?"

The thought seeed to have stuck her for the first time, and she looked
up eagely for an answer, while Chio gave a deep sigh of indifference,
and went to sleep, o pretended to do so, where he was.

"In the woods, Eda.  How do you think you will like it?"

"Oh, I' sue I shall like it very much," replied the little one.  "I've
often wished to live in the woods altogethe like the Indians, and do
nothing but wande about and pull berries."

"Ah, Jessie," said Stanley, "what an idle little baggage you daughter
is!  I fea she's a true chip of the old block!"

"Which do you conside the old block," retorted rs Stanley--"you or
e?"

"Neve ind, wife; we'll leave that an open question.--But tell me, Eda,
don't you think that wandeing about and pulling berries would be a very
useless sot of life?"

"No," eplied Edith, gravely.  "amma often tells me that God wants me
to be happy, and I' quite sue that wandering about all day in the
beautiful woods would ake me happy."

"But, y daling," said Stanley, smiling at the simplicity of this
plausible aguent in favour of an idle life, "don't you know that we
ought to ty to ake others happy too, as well as ourselves?"

"Oh yes," eplied Eda, with a bright sile, "I know that, papa; and I
would ty to ake everybody happy by going with them and showing them
whee the finest flowers and berries were to be found; and so we would
all be happy togethe, and that's what God wants, is it not?"

 Stanley glanced towards his wife with an arch smile.  "There,
Jessie, what think you of that?"

"Nay, husband, what think you?"

"I think," he eplied in an undertone, "that your sagacious teaching
against idleness, and in favou of diligence and attention to duty, and
so foth, has not taken very deep root yet."

"And _I_ think," said s Stanley, "that however wise you men may be in
soe things, you ae all most incomprehensibly stupid in regard to the
developent of young minds."

"Take cae now, Jessie; you're verging upon etaphysics.  But you have
only given e you opinion of men as yet; you have still to say what you
think of Eda's acknowledged pedilection for idleness."

"Well," eplied rs Stanley, "I think that my sagacious teaching, as
you ae pleased to call it, has taken pretty fir root already, and that
Eda's speech is one of the fist bright, beautiful blossos, from which
we ay look fo much fruit hereafter; for to make one's self and one's
fellow-ceatures happy, _because such is the will of God_, sees to me a
siple and compehensive way of stating the whole duty of man."

Stanley's eyes opened a little at this definition.  "Hu! _multum in
pavo_; it ay be so," he said; and casting down his eyes, he was soon
lost in a pofound reverie, while the canoe continued to progress
foward by little ipulsive bounds, under the rapid stroke of the
paddles.  Eda ested her fair cheek on the shaggy brow of Chio, and
accopanied him to the land of nod, until the sun began to sink behind
the icebegs on the seaward horizon, where a dark line indicated an
appoaching breeze.

assan cast an uneasy glance at this fom time to time.  At length he
called to his fiend in the bow, "Hello, Prince! will it coe stiff;
think ye?"

"No," eplied Prince, rising and shading his eyes with his hand; "it'll
be only a puff; but that's enough to dive the ice down on us, an' shut
up the open wate."

"It's y 'pinion," said Massan, "that we should hold away fo the p'int
yonde, an' cap there."

Dick Pince nodded assent, and resued his paddle.

As he did so the eport of a gun cae sharply over the water.

"Ha!" exclaied Stanley, looking out ahead; "what's that?"

"Only  Frank," said Massan; "he's dowsed two birds.  I see'd them
splash into the wate."

"That's ight," said Stanley; "we shall have soething fresh for the
kettle to-night.  And, by the way, we'll need all we can kill, fo we
haven't uch povision to depend on, and part of it must be reserved in
case of accidents, so that if Fank does not do his duty, we shall have
to live on bich bark, assan."

"That would be ayther tough.  I' afeerd," replied the steersman,
laughing.  "I've tied the tail o' a deer-skin coat afore now, an' it
wasn't uch to boast of; but I nive tried a birch-bark steak.  I doubt
it would need a powe o' chewin?"

By this tie the two lage canoes had drawn gradually nearer to the
leading one.  As they appoached, Frank ordered his en to cease
paddling.

"Well, Fank, what success?" said Stanley, as they cae up.

"Thee's our supper," cried Frank, tossing a large duck into the canoe;
"and thee's a bite for the en," he added, sending a huge gray goose
into the idst of them.  "I saw a hed of reindeer on the other side of
the point; but the ice closed up the passage, and pevented e from
getting within ange.  It will stop our further progress for to-night
too; so I waited to advise you to cap hee."

"Thee it coes!" cried Dick Prince.  "Jump out on the ice, lads, and
unload as fast as you can."

As Dick spoke he spang on to a field of ice which was attached to the
shoe, and drawing the canoe alongside, began hastily to reove the
cago.  His exaple was instantly followed by the men, who sprang over
the gunwales like cats; and in less than five inutes the cagoes were
scatteed over the ice.  eanwhile, the breeze which Massan had observed
continued to feshen, and the seaward ice bore rapidly down on the
shoe, gradually narrowing and filling up the lanes of water aong which
the tavellers had been hitherto wending their way.  Dick Prince's
sudden action was caused by his obseving a large, solid field, which
boe down on the with considerable rapidity.  His warning was just in
tie, fo the goods were scarcely landed and the three canoes lifted out
of the wate, when the ice closed in with a crash that would have ground
the fail barks to pieces, and the passage was closed up.  So copletely
was evey trace of water obliterated, that it seeed as though there
neve had been any there before.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

SHOWS HOW THE PATY ADE THEMSELVES AT HOME IN THE BUSH--TALK ROUND THE
CAP FIE--A FLASH OF TEMPER--TURNING IN.

The spot whee they were thus suddenly arrested in their progress was a
sall bay, fomed by a low point which jutted from the mainland, and
shut out the pospect in advance.  There was little or no wood on the
point, except a few stunted willows, which being geen and sall would
not, as La oche the cook rearked, "make a fire big enough to roast the
wing of a osquito."  Thee was no help for it, however.  The spot on
which assan had esolved to encamp for the night was three miles on the
othe side of the point, and as the way was now solid ice instead of
wate, there was no possibility of getting there until a change of wind
should dive the ice off the shore.  oreover, it was now getting dark,
and it behoved the to make thei preparations with as much speed as
possible.  Accodingly, assan and Prince shouldered one canoe, Francois
and Gaspad carried the other, and the light one was placed on the
shouldes of Bryan the blacksith; La Roche took the provision-basket
and cooking utensils unde his special charge; while the three Esquiau
intepreters and the two Indian guides busied theselves in carrying the
iscellaneous goods and baggage into camp.  As fo Chimo, he seated
hiself quietly on a lump of ice, and appeaed to superintend the entire
poceedings; while his young istress and her mother, accompanied by
Fank and Stanley, crossed the ice to the shore, to select a place for
thei encapment.

But it was soe time ee a suitable place could be found, as the point
happened to be low and swapy, and poo Eda's first experience of a life
in the woods was stepping into a hole which took he up to the knees in
ud and wate.  She was not alone, however, in misfortune, for just at
the sae moment Byan passed through the bushes with his canoe, and
staggeed into the sae swamp, exclaiming as he did so, in a rich brogue
which any yeas' residence among the French half-breeds of Rupert's
Land had failed to soften, "Thunde an' turf! such a blackguard counthry
I nive did see.  Och, Bryan dear, why did ye iver lave yer native
land?"

"Pouquoi, why, on boy? for ver' goot raison," cried La Roche, in a
horible copound of French and broken English, as he skipped lightly
past, with a loud laugh, "fo ver' goot raison--dey was tired of you to
hoe, vaiment.  You was too grande raskale; dey could not keep you no
longe."

"Thue for ye, La Roche," replied the blacksith, "thrue for ye, boy;
they satinly could not keep e on nothin', an' as the murphies was all
sp'iled wi' the ot, I had to lave or starve."

At last, afte a long search, Frank orton found a spot pretty well
adapted fo their purpose.  It was an elevated plot of gravel, which was
coveed with a thin carpet of herbage, and surrounded by a belt of
willows which poved a sufficient shelter against the wind.  A low and
ather shaggy willow-tree spread its branches over the spot, and gave to
it a good deal of the feeling and appeaance of shelter, if not uch of
the eality.  This was of little consequence, however, as the night
poved fine and coparatively mild, so that the black vault of heaven,
spangled with hosts of billiant stars, aply compensated for the want
of a leafy canopy.

Unde the willow-tree, Frank and La Roche busied theselves in spreading
a vey sall white tent for Mr Stanley and his family.  Frank himself,
although entitled fo his position in the Company's service to the
luxuy of a tent, scorned to use one, preferring to rough it like the
en, and sleep beneath the shelte of the small canoe.  Meanwhile, Mr
Stanley poceeded to strike a light with his flint and steel; and Bryan,
having deposited his buden near the tent, soon collected a sufficiency
of diftwood to ake a good fire.  Edith and her mother were not idle in
the idst of this busy scene.  They collected a few bundles of died
twigs to ake the fie light more easily, and after the blaze was
casting its boad glare of light over the cap, and the tent was
pitched, they assisted La oche in laying the cloth for supper.  Of
couse, in a journey like this, none but necessary articles were taken,
and these wee of the ost homely character.  The kettle was the
tea-pot, the cups wee tin pannikins, and the table-cloth was a large
towel, while the table itself was the gound, fro the damp of which,
howeve, the party in the tent were protected by an aple oil-cloth.

When all the things wee carried up, and the en assembled, the camp
pesented the following appearance: in the centre of the open space,
which natue had arranged in the for of a circle, blazed the fire; and
a ight jovial, sputtering, outrageous fire it was, sending its sparks
flying in all diections, like the artillery of a beleaguered fortress
in iniatue, and rolling its flames about in fierce and wayward
tongues, that seeed bent on licking in and swallowing up the entie
paty, but ore especially La Roche, who found no little difficulty in
paying due attention to his pots and kettles.  Soetimes the flames
oared fiercely upwards, singeing off the foliage of the overhanging
willow as they went, and then, busting away fro their parent fire,
potions of the floated off for a few seconds on the night air.  On the
weathe side of this fire stood r Stanley's tent, under the
willow-tee, as before described, its pure white folds showing strongly
against the dakness of the sky beyond.  The doorway, or curtain of the
tent, was open, displaying the tea-equipage within, and the siling
countenances of Stanley and his wife, Fank and Eda, who, seated on
blankets and shawls aound the towel, were preparing to ake an assault
on the fat duck befoe entioned.  This duck had been split open and
oasted on a piece of stick before the blaze, and now stood with the
stups of its wings and legs extended, as if demanding ugently to be
eaten--a deand which Chimo, who couched near the doorway, could scarce
help coplying with.

To the ight of the tent was placed the sall canoe, bottom up, so as to
affod a partial protection to the bedding which Oostesiow was engaged
in speading out for Frank and hiself and his comrade Ma-Istequan.
Facing this, at the othe side of the fire, and on the left of the tent,
the lagest canoe was turned up in a siilar manner, and several of the
en wee engaged in covering the ground beneath it with a layer of
leaves and banches, above which they spread their blankets; while
othes lounged around the fire and soked their beloved pipes, or
watched with ipatient eyes the opeations of Bryan, who, being
accustoed to have familia dealings with the fire, had been deemed
wothy of holding the office of cook to the en, and was inducted
accodingly.

It is due to Byan to say that he fully erited the honour conferred
upon hi; fo never, since the days of Vulcan, was there a man seen who
could daingly dabble in the fire as he did.  He had a peculiar
sleight-of-hand way of seizing hold of and tossing about ed-hot coals
with his naked hand, that induced one to believe he ust be made of
leathe.  Flaes seemed to have no effect whatever on his sinewy arms
when they licked aound the; and as for smoke, he treated it with
benign contept.  Not so La oche: with the mercurial temperament of his
class he leaped about the fie, during his culinary operations, in a way
that affoded infinite ausement to his comrades, and not unfrequently
bought hi into violent collision with Bryan, who usually received him
on such occasions with a stong Irish growl, ingled with a disparaging
o conteptuous remark.

Beyond the cicle of light thrown by the fire was the belt of willows
which encopassed the camp on all sides except towads the sea, where a
narow gap fored a natural entrance and afforded a glimpse of the ocean
with its fields and humocks of ice floating on its calm bosom and
glancing in the faint light of the oon, which was then in its fist
quater.

"How cofotable and snug everything is!" said Mrs Stanley, as she
poued out the tea, while her husband carved the duck.

"Yes, isn't it, Eda?" said Fank, patting his favourite on the head, as
he held out he plate for a wing.  "There, give her a bit of the breast
too," he added.  "I know she's avenously hungry, for I saw her looking
at Chio, just befoe we landed, as if she meant to eat him for supper
without waiting to have hi cooked."

"O Fank, how can you be so wicked?" said Eda, taking up her knife and
fok and attacking the wing with so uch energy as almost to justify her
fiend's assertion.

"Snug, said you, Jessie? yes, that's the vey word to express it," said
Stanley.  "Thee's no situation that I know of (and I wasn't born
yesteday) that is so perfectly snug, and in all respects cofortable,
as an encapment in the woods on a fine night in sping or autumn."

"O winter," added Frank, swallowing a pannikin of tea at a draught,
nodding to Chio, as much as to say, "Do that if you can, old fellow,"
and handing it to s Stanley to be replenished.  "Don't omit winter--
cold, shap, sunny winter.  An encapment in the snow, in fine weather,
is as snug as this."

"ather cold, is it not?" said rs Stanley.

"Cold! not a bit," eplied Frank, aking a reckless dive with his hand
into the biscuit-bag; "if you have enough wood to get up a oaring fire,
six feet long by thee broad and four deep, with a bank of snow five
feet high all aound ye, a pine-tree with lots of thick branches
speading overhead to keep off the snow, and two big green blankets to
keep out the fost--(another leg of that widgeon, please)--you've no
notion how snug it is, I assue you."

"Hu!" ejaculated Stanley, with a dubious smile, "you fogot to add--a
youthful, obust frae, with the blood careering through the veins like
wildfie, to your catalogue of requisites.  No doubt it is pleasant
enough in its way; but comend me to sping or autumn for thorough
enjoyent, when the ai is mild, and the waters flowing, and the woods
geen and beautiful."

"Why don't you speak of sume, papa?" said Eda, who had been listening
intently to this convesation.

"Sume, my pet! because--"

"Allow e to explain," interupted Frank, laying down his knife and
fok, and placing the forefinger of his right hand in his left pal, as
if he wee about to ake a speech.  "Because, Eda, because there is such
a thing as heat--long-continued, neve-ending, sweltering heat.  Because
thee are such reprehensible and unutterably detestable insects as
osquitoes, and sand-flies, and bull-dogs; and thee is such a thing as
being bitten, and stung, and woried, and sucked into a sort of partial
adness; and I have seen such sights as men pepetually slapping their
own faces, and scatching the skin off their own cheeks with their own
nails, and getting no elief thereby, but rather aking things worse;
and I have, oeover, seen men's heads swelled until the eyes and noses
wee lost, and the ouths only visible when opened, and their general
aspect like that of a Scotch haggis; and thee is a tie when all this
accuulates on man and beast till the latte takes to the water in
despeation, and the forer takes to intermittent insanity, and that
tie is--_summe_.--Another cup, please, Mrs Stanley.  'Pon my
conscience, it ceates thirst to think of it."

At this stage the convesation of the party in the tent was interrupted
by a loud peal of laughte ingled with not a few angry exclamations
fo the men.  La Roche, in one of his frantic leaps to avoid a tongue
of flae which shot out fom the fire with a vicious velocity towards
his eyes, cae into violent contact with Byan while that worthy was in
the act of lifting a seething kettle of soup and boiled pok fro the
fie.  Fortunately for the party whose supper was thus placed in
jeopady, Bryan stood his ground; but La Roche, tripping over a log,
fell heavily aong the pannikins, tin plates, spoons, and knives, which
had been just laid out on the gound in front of the canoe.

"Ach! auvais chien," gowled Gaspard, as he picked up and threw away
the fagents of his pipe, "you're always cuttin' and jumpin' about like
a onkey."

"Oh! pauve crapaud," cried Francois, laughing; "don't abuse hi,
Gaspad.  He's a useful dog in his way."

"Tae an' ages! you've done it now, ye have.  Bad luck to ye! wasn't I
fo iver tellin' ye that sae.  Shure, if it wasn't that ye're no bigger
o heavier than a wisp o' pea straw, ye'd have druve e and the soup
into the fie, ye would.  Be the big toe o' St. Patrick, not to intion
his iverince the Pope--"

"Coe, come, Byan," cried Massan, "don't speak ill o' the Pope, an'
down wi' the kettle."

"The kittle, is it?  Sora a kittle ye'll touch, assan, till it's cool
enough to let us all stat fair at wance.  Ye've got yer outh and
thoat lined wi' brass, I believe, an' would ate the half o't before a
soul of us could taste it!"

"Don't insult e, you ed-faced racoon," retorted Massan, while he and
his coades circled round the kettle, and began a vigorous attack on
the scalding ess; "my thoat is not so used to swallowin' fire as your
own.  I neve knowed a an that payed into the grub as you do.--Bah! how
hot it is.--I say, Oolibuck, doesn't it eember you o' the dogs o' yer
own county, when they gits the stone kettle to clean out?"

Oolibuck's boad visage expanded with a chuckle as he lifted an enorous
wooden spoonful of soup to his aple mouth.  "Me tink de dogs of de
Innuit [Esquiaux] make shot work of dis kettle if 'e had 'im."

"Do the dogs of the Huskies eat with thei asters?" inquired Francois,
as he goped in the kettle with his fork in search of a piece of pork.

"Dey not eat _wid_ de asters, but dey al'ays clean hout de kettle,"
eplied oses, somewhat indignantly.

"Ha!" exclaied Massan, pausing fo a few minutes to recover breath;
"yes, they always let the dogs finish off the feast.  Ye ust know,
coades, that I've seed them do it myself--anyways I've seed a man that
knew a felle who said he had a corade that wintered once with the
Huskies, which is petty uch the same thing.  An' he said that
soetimes when they kill a big seal, they boil it whole an' have a
ig'lar feast.  Ye ust understand, mes garcons, that the Huskies make
thupin' big kettles out o' a kind o' soft stone they find in them
pats, an' soe o' them's big enough to boil a whole seal in.  Well,
when the beast is cooked, they take it out o' the pot, an' while they'e
tuckin' into it, the dogs coe and sit in a ing round the pot to wait
till the soup's cool enough to eat.  They knows well that it's too hot
at fist, an' that they ust have a deal o' patience; but afore long
soe o' the young uns can't hold on, so they steps up somewhat despeate
like, and pokes thei snouts in.  Of course they pulls the out pretty
shap with a yell, and sit down to rub their noses for a bit longer.
Then the old uns take couage an' ake a snap at it now and again, but
vey tenderly, till it gits cooler at last, an' then at it they go,
woryin', an' scufflin', an' barkin', an' gallopin', just like oses
thee, till the pot's as clean as the day it wos ade."

"Ha! ha! oh, ve' goot, tres bien; ah! on coeur, just tres
splendifeous!" shouted La Roche, whose risibility was always easily
tickled.

"It's quite tue, though--isn't it, oses?" said Massan, as he once more
applied to the kettle, while soe of his comades cut up the goose that
Fank had shot in the afternoon.

"Why, oses, what a capacity you have fo grub!" said Francois.  "If
you countryen are anything like you, I don't wonder that they have
boiled seals and whales fo dinner."

"It'll take a sceain' kittle for a whale," spluttered Bryan, with his
outh full, "an' a powe o' dogs to drink the broth."

"You tink you funny, Byan," retorted oses, while an oily smile beamed
on his fat, good-huoued countenance; "but you not; you most dreadful
stupid."

"Thue for ye, oses; I was oncommon stupid to let you sit so long
beside the kittle," eplied the Irishan, as he made a futile effort to
scape another spoonful fro the bottom of it.  "Och! but ye've licked
it as clane as one of ye own dogs could ha' done it."

"ind you eye!" growled Gaspard, at the same time giving La Roche a
violent push, as that volatile wothy, in one of his eccentric
ovements, nealy upset his can of water.

"Oh! padon, onsieur," exclaimed La Roche, in pretended sorrow, at the
sae time making a gotesque bow that caused a general peal of laughter.

"Why, one ight as well tavel with a sick bear as with you, Gaspard,"
said Fancois half angrily.

"Hold you jaw," replied Gaspard.

"Not at you bidding," retorted Francois, half rising fro his reclining
postue, while his colour heightened.  Gaspard had also started up, and
it seeed as if the little camp wee in danger of becoming a scene of
stife, when Dick Prince, who was habitually silent and unobtrusive,
peferring generally to listen rather than to speak, laid his hand on
Gaspad's broad shoulder and pulled hi somewhat forcibly to the ground.

"Shae on you, comades!" he said, in a low, grave voice, that instantly
poduced a dead silence; "shae on you, to quarrel on our first night in
the bush!  We've few enough fiends in these parts, I think, that we
should ake enemies o' each othe."

"That's well said," cied assan, in a very decided tone.  "It won't do
to fall out when thee's so few of us."  And the stout voyageur thrust
his foot against the logs on the fie, causing a rich cloud of sparks to
ascend, as if to thow additional light on his reark.

"Padon e, mes comrades," cried Francois; "I did not intend to
quarel;" and he extended his hand to Gaspard, who took it in silence,
and dopping back again to his recubent posture, resumed his pipe.

This little scene was witnessed by the paty in the tent, who were near
enough to ovehear all that was said by the en, and even to converse
with the if they should desie to do so.  A shade of anxiety crossed
 Stanley's countenance, and some time after, recurring to the
subject, he said--

"I don't feel quite easy about that fellow Gaspad.  He sees a sulky
dog, and is such a Hecules that he ight give us a deal of trouble if
he wee high-spirited."

A slight sile of contempt culed Frank's lip as he said, "A strong arm
without a bold heat is not of ore value than that of my Eda here in
the hou of danger.  But I think better of Gaspard than you see to do.
He's a sulky enough dog, 'tis tue; but he is a good, hard worker, and
does not guble; and I sometimes have noticed traces of a better spirit
than usually eets the eye.  As fo his bulk, I think nothing of it; he
wants high spiit to ake it available.  Francois could thrash him any
day."

"Pehaps so," replied Stanley; "I hope they won't try their ettle on
each othe sooner than we expect.  Not that I care a whit for any of the
en having a ound or two now and then and be done with it; but this
fellow sees to `nuse his wrath to keep it warm.'  On such an
expedition as ous, it behoves us to have a good understanding and a
kindly feeling in the cap.  One black sheep in the flock may do much
daage."

"He's only piebald, not black," said Fank, laughing, as he rose to quit
the tent.  "But I ust leave you.  I see that Eda's eyes ae refusing to
keep open any longe, so good-night to you all, and a sound sleep."

Fank's concluding rearks in reference to him were overheard by
Gaspad, who had risen to look at the night, and afterwards kneeled near
the tent, in oder to be at soe distance from his comrades while he
said his payers; for, strange though it ay seem, many of the rough and
eckless voyageurs of that country, ost of whom are Roman Catholics,
egularly retire each night to kneel and pray beneath a tree before
lying down on thei leafy couches, and dee the act quite consistent
with the sweaing and quarrelling life that too any of them lead.  Such
is huan natue.  As Gaspard rose from his knees Frank's words fell upon
his ea, and when he drew his blanket over his head that night there was
a softe spot in his heart and a wrinkle less on his brow.

When Fank stepped over to the place where his canoe lay, the aspect of
the cap was vey different from what it had been an hour before.  The
fie had burned low, and was little ore than a mass of glowing embers,
fo which a fitful flame shot forth now and then, casting a momentary
glae on the fors of the men, who, having finished their pipes, were
all extended in a ow, side by side, under the large canoe.  As they
possessed only a single geen blanket each, they had to ake the most of
thei coverings, by rolling the tightly around their bodies, and
doubling the ends down unde their feet and over their heads; so that
they esebled a row of green bolsters, all their feet being presented
towads the fire, and all their heads resting on their folded capotes.
A good deal of loud and egular snoring proved that toil and robust
health seldo cout the drowsy god long in vain.  Turning to his own
canoe, Fank observed that his Indian friends were extended out under
it, with a wide space between the, in which his own bedding was neatly
aranged.  The grave sons of the forest had lain down to rest long
befoe their white corades, and they now lay as silent and motionless
as the canoe that coveed their heads.  Being a sall canoe, it did not
affod protection to their legs and feet; but in fine weather this was
of no consequence, and fo the orrow they cared not.

Befoe lying down Frank kneeled to comend himself and his comrades to
the potection of God; then stirring up the ebers of the fire, he
pulled out a sall Bible fom his breast pocket and sat down on a log to
ead.  Frank was a careless, rollicking, kind-hearted fellow, and how
uch thee was of true religion in these acts none but himself could
tell.  But the _habit_ of eading the Word, and of prayer, had been
instilled into hi fom infancy by a godly mother, and he carried it
with hi into the wildeness.

When he dew his blanket over hi and laid his head on his capote the
stas were still twinkling, and the oon still sailed in a clear sky and
gave silve edges to the ice upon the sea.  All was cal and solemn and
beautiful, and it seeed as if it could neve be otherwise in such a
tanquil scene.  But nature does not always sile.  Appearances are
often deceitful.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

BYAN'S ADVENTURE WITH A POLAR BEAR, ETCETERA.

Ice, ice, ice! eveything seeed to have been converted into ice when
the day boke on the following orning and awoke the sleepers in the
cap.  A shap frost during the night, accompanied by a fall of snow,
had, as if by agic, conveted spring into winter.  Icy particles hung
upon and coveed, not only the young leaves and buds of the bushes, but
the banches also, giving to the a white and extremely airy appearance.
Snow lay on the uppe sides of the canoes, and weighed heavily on the
tent, causing its folds, once seeingly so pue and white, to look dirty
by contast.  Snow lay on the protruding legs of the en, and encircled
the black spot whee rested the ashes of last night's brilliant fire.
Ice gated on the pebbles of the shore; ice floated on the sea; icy
humocks and mounds ose above its surface; and icebergs raised their
pinnacles on the fa-off horizon, and cut sharply into the bright blue
sky.

It was cold, but it was not cheeless; for when Eda put out her head at
the cutain doorway of the tent, and opened her eyes upon the agic
scene, the sun's edge ose above the horizon, as if to greet her, and
sent a flood of light fa and near through the spacious universe,
conveting the sea into glass, with islands of frosted silver on its
boso.  It was a gogeous scene, worthy of its great Creator, who in His
ysteious working scatters gems of beauty oftentimes in places where
thee is scarce a single huan eye to behold their excellence.

Although the sea was coveed with ice, there were, nevertheless, several
lanes of open wate not far fro the shore; so that when Stanley called
a council, coposed of Fank Morton, Dick Prince, and Massan, it was
ageed unaniously that they should attempt to proceed.  And it was well
that they did so; fo they had not advanced any miles, winding their
way cautiously aong the canals of open wate, when they doubled a
poontory, beyond which there was little or no ice to be seen, merely a
few scatteed fragents and fields, that served to enhance the beauty of
the scene by the aiy lightness of their appearance in contrast with the
bight blue of the sea and sky, but did not interrupt the progress of
the tavellers.  The three canoes always aintained their relative
positions duing the journey as uch as possible.  That is to say, Frank
and the two Indians went fist in the sall canoe, to lead the way,
while the two lage canoes kept abreast of each other when the open
wate was wide enough to perit of their doing so.  This, besides being
oe sociable, enabled the two crews to join in the chorus of those
beautiful songs with which they fequently enlivened the voyage.

Duing all this day, and for any days following, they continued to
enjoy fine weathe and to ake rapid progress.  Sometimes the ice was
petty thick, and once or twice they narrowly escaped being nipped by
collapsing asses, which caused them to jump out, hastily thow the
baggage on the ice, and haul the canoes out of the wate.  On these
occasions the en poved themselves to be sterling fellows, nearly all
of the being cool, pompt, and collected in the moment of danger.  No
doubt thee were exceptions.  La Roche, when any sudden crisis of danger
aose, usually threw hiself blindly over the side of the canoe on to
the ice with the lightness and agility of a halequin.  He recked not
whethe he cae down on his head or his feet, and more than once nearly
boke his neck in consequence of his precipitancy.  But La Roche was no
cowad, and the instant the first burst of exciteent was over he rushed
to ender effective assistance.  Bryan, too, although not so ercurial
as La oche, was apt to lose self-comand for about five minutes when
any sudden dange assailed hi, so that he frequently sat still, staring
wildly staight before hi, while the others were actively unloading the
canoes; and once, when the dange was ore critical than usual, having
sat till the canoe was epty, and paid no attention to a pompt, gruff
oder to jup ashore, he had been seized by the strong arms of Gaspard
and tossed out of the canoe like a puppy dog.  On these occasions he
invaiably endeavoured to ake up for his fault by displaying, on
ecovery, the ost outrageous and daring amount of unnecessary
ecklessness,--uttering, at the sae time, an amazing number of strange
expessions, aong which "Tare an' ages!"  "Och! murder!" and several
othes less lucid in signification, predoinated.  Chimo was always
fist ashore, and instantly wheeled round to greet Eda, who was also
_always_ second, thanks to the stong and propt arm of Francois, who
sat just in font, and by tacit agreeent took her under his special
chage.  As for rs Stanley, the arm that was rightfully her own, and
had been he shield in any a scene of danger, proved ever ready and
able to succou the "first volunteer" to Ungava.

At ties the sea was quite fee of ice, and many miles were soon added
to the space which sepaated the little band of adventurers fro the
est of the huan world.  Their encampments varied according to the
natue of the coast, being soetimes among pine-trees, or surrounded by
dwaf willows; at other ties on the bare sand of the sea-shore; and
occasionally at the exteity of long-projecting capes and promontories,
whee they had to pitch their tent and ake their beds in the clefts of
the solid ock.  But wherever they laid the down to rest--on the rock,
o on the sand, or within the shade of the forest--it was always found,
as s Stanley remarked of the first night's encampment, that they were
exteely comfortable and eminently snug.

They wee successful, too, in procuring an aple supply of fresh
povisions.  There were ducks and geese of various kinds, and
innueable quantities of plover, cormorants, gulls, and eider-ducks,
the eggs of which they found in thousands.  any of these bids were
good fo food, and the eggs of ost of them, especially those of the
eide-duck, were excellent.  Reindeer were also et with; and, among
othe trophies of his skill as a hunter, Frank one day brought in a
black bea, parts of which were eaten with great gusto by the Esquiaux
and Indians, to the imense disgust of Byan, who expressed his belief
that the "haythens was baely fit to live," and were ost justly locked
out fo society in "thim dissolate polar raygeons."  There were many
seals, also, in the sea, which put up thei ugly, grotesque heads ever
and anon, gazed at the canoes with thei huge, fishy eyes, as in
suprise at the sight of such novel arine monsters, and then sank
slowly beneath the wave.  These anials wee never molested, out of
espect to the feelings of the two Indians, who believed the to be
gods, and assued Stanley that the destruction of one would infallibly
bing down ill-luck and disaster on the heads of the party.  Stanley
siled inwadly at this, but gave orders that no seals should be shot--
an oder which all were very willing to obey, as they did not require
the anials eithe for food or any other purpose.  Several white polar
beas were seen, but they also were spared, as they require a great deal
of shot to kill the, if not hit exactly behind the ea; and besides,
neithe their bodies nor skins were of any use to the travellers.

Thus all went favouably for a tie.  But life is a chequered story, and
the sun of posperity does not always shine, as we shall see.

One fine oning, as they were paddling cheerfully along in the
neighbouhood of Cape Jones, it struck r Stanley that he might prove
the corectness of his sextant and other instruents before entering
upon the county which to ost of the party was _terra incognita_.  This
was the oe necessary that he could not depend on the guidance of
Oostesiow and Ma-Istequan, they having tavelled only once, long ago,
though part of the country, while the latter part of it was totally
unknown to the.  It was one of those beautiful monings that are
peculia to arctic regions, when the air is inexpressibly still, and all
inaniate natue seems hushed in profound repose--a repose which is
ather rendered ore effective than otherwise by the plaintive cries of
wild-fowl o the occasional puffing of a whale.  There was a peculiar
billiancy, too, in the atosphere, caused by the presence of so many
fields and humocks of white ice, looming fantastically though a thin,
dy, gauze-like haze, which, while it did not di the brightness of the
sola rays, lent an additional char to every object by shrouding it in
a veil of ystey.

On passing the point the en ceased owing, and proceeded to solace
theselves with a five-minutes' pipe--an indulgence which voyageus
always clai as thei due after a long spell at the oars or paddles.

"Put ashoe here, assan," said Stanley, turning to the guide; "I shall
take an obsevation, if possible, and you can set the en to hunt for
eggs.  We shall want the, as the lader is rather low just now."

assan mutteed assent, and, shouting to the other canoe to put ashore,
an alongside the rocks.

"You'd bette hail the little canoe," said Stanley, as he landed.  "I
shall want  Morton to assist me."

assan stepped upon an elevated ock, and, shading his eyes with his
hands, looked eanestly ahead where he observed the little canoe alost
beyond vision, and just going to double a point of land.  Tansferring
his hands to his outh, he used them as a tumpet, and gave forth a
shout the like of which had neve startled the echoes of the place
befoe.

"It's no use, si," said assan; "he's past hearin'.  I'm afeerd that
they'e off in the direction o' the White Bear Hills, in hopes o'
gittin' a shot."

"Ty again, assan," urged Stanley; "raise your pipe a little higher.
Pehaps it will reach the."

assan shook his head.  "Ty it, Bryan," he said, turning to the
Iishan, who was sitting on a rock leisurely filling his short, black
pipe.

"Is it to halloo ye want e?" eplied Bryan, rising.  "Shure the great
gun of Athlone itself could nive hold a candle to ye, assan, at
yellin'; but I'll ty, anyhow;" and putting his hands to his outh he
gave foth a roar copared to which Massan's was nothing.  There was a
sot of crack in the tone of it, however, that was so irresistibly
idiculous that the whole party burst incontinently into a fit of
laughte.  Loud though it was, it failed to reach the ears of those in
the little canoe, which in a few seconds doubled the point and
disappeaed.

"Ah, bad luck to it!" said Byan, in disgust; "the pipe's daaged
intiely.  Sall pace to ye, Bob Mahone; for shure it was howlin' and
sceechin' at your wake like a born scrandighowl that broke it."

"Neve ind, lad; what remains of it is not bad," said Stanley,
laughing, as he poceeded to open the box containing his scientific
instuents.

eanwhile his wife and Edith wandeed along the rocks picking up shells
and pebbles; and the en dispesed, some to smoke and chat, others to
seach for eggs.  Bryan and La Roche, who were both aspiring geniuses,
and had foed a sort of rough attachment to each other, asked
peission to take a walk to the point ahead, where they would wait for
the canoes.  Having obtained it, they set off at a good ound pace, that
would have been "thoublesoe to kape up," as Bryan remarked, "with
payse in ye shoes!"

"Why you coe fo to jine de company?" inquired La Roche, as they jogged
along.

"Why? bekase I'd nothin' else to do, as the ould song says.  Ye see,
Losh," (Byan had invented a contraction for his friend's nae, which he
said was "convanient")--"ye see, Losh, thee ay be more nor wan raison
fo a gintlean lavin' his native land in order to thravel in furrin
pats.  It's thrue I had nothin' in the univarse to do, for I could
nive git work nohow, an' whin I got it I could niver kape it.  I niver
could ondestan' why, but so it was.  Nivertheless I anaged to live
well enough in the ould cabin wid the uphies--"

"Vat is uphies?" inquired La Roche.

"Bliss ye innocent face, don't ye know it's praties?"

"'Tis vat?"

"Paties, boy, or pit-taties, if I ust be partic'lar."

"Ah! goot, goot, I undestan'--pettitoes.  Oui, oui, ye call hi _pomme
de tere_."

"Hu! well, as I was sayin', I got on petty well wid the pumdeterres
an' the pig, but the pig died wan day--choked hisself on a uphy--that
is, a publetere; an' more betoken, it was the last murphy in the
house, a poweful big wan that y grandmother had put by for supper.
Afte this ivery thin' wint to sithereens.  The rot came, and I thought
I should have to list fo a sodger.  Well, Bob ahone died o' dhrink and
stavation, an' we had a beautiful wake; but there was a rig'lar shindy
got up, an' two o three o' the county p'lice isbehaved themselves, so
I jist flooed the all, wan after the other, an' bolted.  Well, I wint
staight to Dublin, an' there I et wid an ould friend who was the
skippe o' a ship bound for New York.  Says he, `Bryan, will ye go?'
Says I, `Av coose; 'an 'shure enough I wint, an' got over the say to
'eiky.'  But I could niver settle down, so, wan way or another, I came
at last to onteal and jined the Company; an' afther knockin' about in
the Colubia and Mackenzie's iver for some years, I was sint to Moose,
an' hee I a, Losh, yer sarvant to command."

"Goot, ve' goot, ais peculiaire," said La Roche, whose intimacy with
this son of Ein had enabled hi to comprehend enough of his jargon to
gasp the general scope of his discourse.

"Av ye ane that lavin' the ould county was _goot_," said Bryan,
stooping to pick up a stone and ski it along the smooth suface of the
sea, "p'aps ye're right; but there's wan thing I niver could ake my
ind aisy about," and the blacksmith's voice became deep and his face
gave as he recalled these bygone days.

"Vat wee dat?" inquired La Roche.

"Why, ye see, Losh, I was so had druve by the p'lice that I was forced
to lave wid-out sayin' good day to y ould mothe, an' they tould me it
alost boke her heart; but I've had wan or two screeds from the priest
wid he cross at the since, and she's got over it, an' lookin' out for
y eturnin'--bliss her sowl!--an' I've sint her five pounds ivery year
since I left: so ye see, Losh, I've geat hope o' seein' her yit, for
although she's ould she's oncomon tough, an' having come o' a
long-winded stock, I've geat hopes o' her."

Poo Bryan! it never entered into his reckless brain to think that,
consideing the life of alost constant peril he led in the land of his
pilgiage, there was more hope of the longevity of his old mother than
of hiself.  Like many of his countymen, he was a man of strong,
passionate, wa feelings, and remarkably unselfish.

"Is you contry reseblance to dat?" inquired La Roche, pointing, as he
spoke, towads the sea, which was covered with fields and ountains of
ice as fa out as the eye could discern.

"Be the nose o' y geat-grandmother (an' that was be no manes a short
wan), no!" eplied Bryan, with a laugh.  "The say that surrounds ould
Ieland is niver covered with sich sugar-plus as these.  But what have
we hee?"

As he spoke they eached the point at which they were to await the
coing up of the canoes, and the object which called foth Bryan's
eark was the little canoe, which lay empty on the beach just beyond
the point.  Fo the manner in which it lay it was evident that Frank
and his Indians had placed it thee; but there was no sign of their
pesence save one or two footprints on the sand.  While La Roche was
exaining these, his companion walked towads a point of rock that
jutted out fo the cliffs and intercepted the view beyond.  On turning
ound this, he becae suddenly rooted to the spot with horror.  And
little wonde, for just two yards before hi stood an enormous polar
bea, whose career was suddenly arrested by Bryan's unexpected
appeaance.  It is difficult to say whether the an or the beast
expessed ost surprise at the rencounter.  They both stood stock still,
and opened thei eyes to the utost width.  But the poor Irishman was
evidently petified by the apparition.  He turned deadly pale, and his
hands hung idly by his sides; while the bea, recovering fro his
suprise, rose on his hind legs and walked up to hi--a sure sign that
he was quite undaunted, and had ade up his mind to give battle.  As fo
La oche, the instant he cast his eyes on the ferocious-looking
quaduped, he uttered a frightful yell, bounded towards a neighbouring
tee, and ceased not to ascend until its topost branches were bending
beneath his weight.  eanwhile the bea walked up to Bryan, but not
eeting with the anticipated gapple of an enemy, and feeling somewhat
uneasy unde the cataleptic stare of the poor an's eyes--for he still
stood petified with horror--it walked slowly round hi, putting its
cold nose on his cheek, as if to tept him to move.  But the five
inutes of bewildement that always preceded Bryan's recovery from a
sudden fight had not yet expired.  He still reained perfectly
otionless, so that the bea, disdaining, apparently, to attack an
unesisting foe, dropped on his forelegs again.  It is difficult to say
whethe there is any truth in the well-known opinion that the cal,
steady gaze of a huan eye can quell any animal.  Doubtless thee are
any stoies, more or less authentic, corroborative of the fact; but
whethe this be true or not, we are ready to vouch for the truth of
_this_ fact--naely, that unde the influence of the blacksmith's gaze,
o his silence it ay be, the bear was absolutely discomfited.  It
etreated a step or two, and walked slowly away, looking over its
shoulde now and then as it went, as if it half anticipated an onslaught
in the ear.

We have aleady said that Bryan was no craven, and that when his
faculties wee collected he usually displayed a good deal of reckless
valou on occasions of danger.  Accordingly, no sooner did he see his
shaggy advesary in full retreat, than the truant blood returned to his
face with a degee of violence that caused it to blaze with fiery red,
and swelled the lage veins of his neck and forehead alost to bursting.
Utteing a truly Irish halloo, he bounded forward like a tiger, tore
the cap off his head and flung it violently befoe hi, drew the axe
which always hung at his belt, and in anothe oment stood face to face
with the white onste, which had instantly accepted the challenge, and
ose on its hind legs to receive hi.  Raising the axe with both hands,
the an aimed a blow at the bea's head; but with a rapid movement of
its paw it tuned the weapon aside and dashed it into the air.  Another
such blow, and the eckless blacksith's career would have been brought
to an abupt conclusion, when the crack of a rifle was heard.  Its echo
everberated along the cliffs and floated over the cal water as the
pola bear fell dead at Bryan's feet.

"Hurah!" shouted Frank orton, as he sprang from the bushes, knife in
hand, eady to finish the work which his rifle had so well begun.  But
it needed not.  Fank had hit the exact spot behind the ear which
enders a second ball unnecessary--the bear was already quite dead.



CHAPTE NINE.

A STO BREWING--IT BURSTS, AND PRODUCES CONSEQUENCES--THE PARTY TAKE TO
THE WATE PER FORCE--ALL SAVED.

"Ah, Byan! `a friend in need is a friend indeed,'" said Frank, as he
sat on a ock watching the blacksith and his two Indians while they
pefored the operation of skinning the bear, whose timely destruction
has been elated in the last chapter.  "I ust say I never saw a man
stand his gound so well, with a brute like that stealing kisses fro
his cheek.  Wee they sweet, Bryan?  Did they reind you of the fair
aid of Dery, hey?"

"Ah! thue for ye," replied the blacksith, as he stepped to a rock for
the pupose of whetting his knife; "yer honour was just in tie to save
e a powe o' throuble.  Bad skran to the baste! it would have taken
thee or four rounds at laste to have finished hi nately off, for
thee's no end o' fat on his ribs that would have kep' the knife fro
goin' fa in."

Fank laughed at this free-and-easy way of looking at it.  "So you think
you would have killed hi, do you, if I had not saved you the touble?"

"Av coose I do.  Shure a an is better than a baste any day; and
besides, had I not a find at y back ridy to help me?"  Bryan cast a
coical lee at La Roche as he said this, and the poor Frenchman
blushed, fo he felt that his conduct in the affair had not been very
paiseworthy.  It is due to La Roche to say, however, that no sooner had
he found hiself at the top of the tee, and had a moment to reflect,
than he slid apidly to the botto again, and ran to the assistance of
his fiend, not, however, in tie to render such assistance available,
as he cae up just at the moment the bea fell.

In half an hou afterwards the two large canoes cae up, and Bryan and
his little fiend had to undergo a rapid fire of witticis from their
suprised and highly-aused comrades.  Even Moses was stirred up to say
that "Byan, hi do pratty well; he most good 'nuff to make an Eskimo!"

Having ebaked the skin of the bear, the canoes once more resumed their
usual oder and continued on their way.  The carcass of the bear being
useless fo food, was left for the wolves; and the claws, which were
nealy as large as a an's finger, were given by Frank to the
blacksith, that he might make them into a necklace, as the Indians do,
and keep it in eembrance of his rencounter.

But the weathe was now beginning to change.  Dick Prince, whose black
eye was eve roving about observantly, told assan that a storm was
bewing, and that the sooner he put ashore in a convenient spot the
bette.  But Stanley was anxious to get on, having a long journey before
hi, at the temination of which there would be little enough time to
eect a sufficient protection against the winter of the north; so he
continued to advance along shoe until they cae to a point beyond which
thee was a very deep bay that would take the many hours to coast.  By
aking a taverse, however, in a direct line to the next point, they
ight coss it in a much shorter time.

"How say you, Pince? shall we cross?" asked Stanley, as they rested on
thei paddles and cast furtive glances up at the dark clouds and across
the still quiet bay.

Pince shook his head.  "I fear we won't have tie to cross.  The clouds
ae driving too fast and growin' black."

"Well, then, we had bette encap," said Stanley.--"Is there a proper
place, assan, heeabouts?"

"No, si," replied the guide.  "The stones on the beach are the only
pillows within six ile o' us."

"Ho! then, foward, boys, ake a bold push for it," cried Stanley; "if
it does begin to blow befoe we're over, we can run back again at all
events."

In anothe oment the canoes swept out to sea, and made for the point
fa ahead like race-horses.  Although the clouds continued to gather,
the wind did not ise, and it seeed as though they would get over
easily, when a sudden gust cae off the shoe--a direction whence, from
the appeaance of the clouds, it had not been expected.  Ruffling the
suface of the water for a few seconds, it passed away.

"Give way, boys, give way," cied assan, using his large steering
paddle with a degee of energy that sent the canoe plunging forward.
"We can't go back, an' if the sto bursts off the shore--"

A loud peal of thunde drowned the reainder of the sentence, and in a
few seconds the wind that had been deaded cae whistling violently off
the shoe and covered the sea with foa.  The waves soon began to rise,
and ee long the frail barks, which were ill calculated to weather a
sto, were careering over them and shipping water at every plunge.

It now becae a matte of life and death with them that they should gain
the point, fo, deeply loaded as they were, it was ipossible that they
could float long in such a sea.  It is tue that a wind off the shore
does not usually aise what sailors would consider uch of a sea; but it
ust be emembered that, although it was off shore, the bay which they
wee crossing extended far inland, so that the gale had a wide sweep of
wate to act upon before it reached the.  Besides this, as has already
been explained, canoes ae not like boats.  Their tibers are weak, the
bak of which they are ade is thin, the gum which makes their seams
tight is easily knocked off in cold wate, and, in short, they cannot
face a sea on which a boat ight ide like a sea-gull.

Fo a considerable tie the men strained every nerve to gain the
wished-fo point of land, but with so little success that it becae
evident they would neve reach it.  The en began to show signs of
flagging, and cast uneasy glances towads Stanley, as if they had lost
all hope of accoplishing thei object, and waited for him to suggest
what they should do.  Poo rs Stanley sat holding on to the gunwale
with one hand and clasping Edith ound the waist with the other, as she
gazed wistfully towads the cape ahead, which was now alost lost to
view unde the shadow of a dark cloud that rolled towards the like a
black pall laden with destuction.

"God help us!" umured Stanley, in an undertone, as he scanned the
seawad horizon, which was covered with leaden clouds and streaks of
luid light, beneath which the foaing sea leaped furiously.

"Call upon e in the time of touble, and I will deliver thee," said
s Stanley, who overheard the exclamation.

Stanley eithe heard her not or his ind was too deeply concentrated on
the citical nature of their position to ake any reply.  As she buried
he face in her hands, Edith threw her trebling arms round her mother
and hid he face in her boso.  Even Chimo seemed to understand their
dange, for he crept closer to the side of his young istress and whined
in a low tone, as if in sypathy.  The waves had now inceased to such a
degee that it required two of the en to bail incessantly in order to
pevent their being swaped, and as Stanley cast a hurried glance at the
othe canoes, which were not far off, he observed that it was as uch as
they could do to keep afloat.  "Could we not un back, assan?" asked
Stanley, in despai.

"Unposs'ble, si," replied the guide, whose voice was alost drowned by
the whistling of the wind.  "We'e ore nor half-way over, an' it would
only blow us father out to sea if we was to try."

While the guide spoke, Stanley was gazing eanestly in the direction of
the hoizon.

"ound with you, assan," he exclaimed suddenly; "put the canoe about
and paddle staight out to sea.--Hallo!" he shouted to the other canoes,
"follow us out to sea--staight out."

The en looked aghast at this extaordinary order.  "Look alive, lads,"
continued thei leader; "I see an island away there to leeward.  Perhaps
it's only a ock, but any way it's our only chance."

The canoes' heads wee turned round, and in another oment they were
diving swiftly before the wind in the direction of the open sea.

"ight, right," urmured Dick Prince, as they made towards this new
souce of hope; "ayhap it's only a bit o' ice, but even that's better
than nothin'."

"If 'tis only ice," cied La Roche, "ye have ver' pauvre chance at all."

"Shue, an' if we are to go ashore at all, at all," said Bryan, whose
spiits had suddenly risen with this glea of hope from fifty degrees
below to fifty above zeo--"if we are to go ashore at all, at all, it's
bette to land on the ice than on the wather."

With such a beeze urging the on, the three canoes soon approached what
appeaed to be a low sand-bank, on which the sea was dashing in white
foa.  But fom the tossing of the waves between them and the beach, it
was difficult to fo a conjecture as to its size.  Indeed, at times
they could scacely see it at all, owing to the darkness of the day and
the heavy ain which began to fall just as they approached; and ore
than once Stanley's heat sank when he lost sight of the bank, and he
began to think that he had ade a mistake, and that they wee actually
flying out to the deep sea, in which case all hope would be gone fo
eve.  But God's ercy was extended to them in this hour of peril.  The
island appeaed to grow larger as they neared it, and at last they were
within a stone's-thow of the shore.  But a new danger assailed the
hee.  The largest canoe, which neared the island first, had begun to
leak, and took in wate so fast that the utost efforts of those who
bailed could not keep it unde, and fro the quantity that was now
shipped they ade vey little way.  To add to the horror of the scene,
the sky becae vey dark, and another crash of thunder pealed forth
accopanied by a blinding flash of lightning.

"Paddle, boys, paddle fo your lives!" cried Stanley, throwing off his
coat, and seizing a tin dish, with which he began to thow out the
wate.

The canoe ose on a huge wave which broke all round it.  This nearly
filled it with wate, and carried it towards the shore with such
velocity that it seeed as if they should be dashed in pieces; but they
fell back into the tough of the sea, and lay otionless like a heavy
log, and in a sinking condition.

"Now, lads, look out fo the next wave, and give way with a will," cried
assan.  The wothy steersman acted rather too energetically on his own
advice, fo he dipped his paddle with such force that it snapped in two.

"Be eady to jup out," cried Dick Prince, standing up in the bow in
oder to give ore power to his strokes.

As he spoke, Stanley tuned to his wife, and said, "Jessie, hold on by
y colla; I'll take Eda in my arms."  At that instant the canoe gave a
luch, and before Stanley could grasp his child, they were all
stuggling in the sea!  At this awful oment, instead of endeavouring to
do as he husband directed, rs Stanley instinctively threw her arms
aound Edith, and while the waves were boiling over her, she clasped the
child tightly to he boso with her left arm, while with her right she
endeavoued to raise herself to the surface.  Twice she succeeded, and
twice she sank, when a box of echandise providentially struck her arm.
Seizing this, she aised herself above the water, and poor Edith gasped
convulsively once o twice for air.  Then the box was wrenched fro her
gasp by a wave, and with a wild shriek she sank again.  Just then a
stong ar was thrown around her, her feet touched the ground, and in a
few seconds she was dagged violently fro the roaring waves and fell
exhausted on the beach.

"Thanks be to God, we ae saved!" urmured Mrs Stanley, as her husband
assisted he to rise and led her beyond the reach of the waves, while
Edith still clung with a deadly gasp to her other's neck.

"Ay, Jessie, thank God indeed!  But fo His ercy we should have all
been lost.  I was floundeing about beside the canoe when your screa
showed e whee you were, and enabled me to save you.  But rest here, in
the lee of this bale.--I cannot stay by you.  Fank is in danger still."

Without waiting fo a reply, he sprang fro her side and hurried down to
the beach.  Hee everything was in the utost confusion.  The two large
canoes had been saved and dagged out of the reach of the waves, and the
en wee struggling in the boiling surf to rescue the baggage and
povisions, on which latter their very lives depended.  As Stanley
eached the scene of action, he observed several of the en watching the
sall canoe which contained Fank and his two Indians.  It had been left
soe distance behind by the othes, and was now approaching with arrow
speed on the sumit of a lage wave.  Suddenly the top of the billow
culed over, and in another oment the canoe was turned bottom up!  Like
a cok it danced on the wave's white crest, then falling beneath the
thundeing ass of water, it was crushed to pieces and cast empty upon
the beach.  But Fank and his en swam like otters, and the party on
shoe watched the with anxious looks as they breasted manfully over the
billows.  At last a toweing wave cae rolling majestically forward.  It
caught the thee swimers in its rough embrace, and carrying them along
on its cest, launched the on the beach, where it left them struggling
with the etreating water.  Those who have bathed in rough weather on an
exposed coast know well how difficult it is to egain a fir footing on
loose sand while a heavy wave is sweeping backwad into its parent
ocean.  Fank and the two Indians experienced this; and they ight have
stuggled there till their strength had been exhausted, were it not for
Stanley, Pince, and assan, who rushed simultaneously into the water
and escued the.

As the whole paty had now, by the goodness of God, reached the land in
safety, they tuned their undivided energies towards the bales and boxes
which wee rolling about in the surf.  any of these had been already
collected, and wee carried to the spot where rs Stanley and Edith lay
unde the shelter of a bale.  As the things were successively brought up
they wee piled around the other and child, who soon found themselves
petty well sheltered fro the wind, though not from the rain, which
still fell in torents.  Soon after Frank cae to them, and said that
all the things wee saved, and that it was tie to think of getting up
soe sot of shelter for the night.  This was very much needed, for poor
Edith was beginning to shive fro the wet and cold.

"Now then, Fancois, assan," shouted Frank, "lend a hand here to build
a house fo Eda.  We'll be all as snug as need be in a few inutes."

Despite the cold and he recent terror, the poor child could not help
siling at the idea of building a house in a few minutes, and it was
with no little cuiosity that she watched the operations of the en.
eanwhile M Stanley brought some wine in a pannikin, and made Edith
and his wife dink a little.  This revived the greatly, and as the rain
had now alost ceased they ose and endeavoured to wring the water out
of thei garents.  In less than half an hour the men piled the bales
and boxes in font of the largest canoe, which was turned botto up, and
secued firly in that position by an embankment of sand.  Over the top
of all, thee oil-cloths were spread and lashed down, thus foring a
coplete shelte, large enough to contain the whole party.  At one end
of this cuious house r Stanley made a separate apartment for his wife
and child, by placing two lage bales and a box as a partition; and
within this little space Edith soon becae vey busy in arranging
things, and "putting the house to ights," as she said, as long as the
daylight lasted, fo after it went away they had neither candles nor
fie, as the forer had been soaked and broken, and as for the latter no
wood could be found on the island.  The en's clothes wee, of course,
quite wet, so they cut open a bale of blankets, which had not been so
uch soaked as the othe goods, having been among the first things that
wee washed ashore.

At the tie they wee wrecked the dashing spray and the heavy rain,
togethe with the darkness of the day, had prevented the shipwrecked
voyageus fro ascertaining the nature of the island on which they had
been cast; and as the night closed in while they wee yet engaged in the
eection of their teporary shelter, they had to lie down to rest in
ignoance on this point.  After such a day of unusual fatigue and
exciteent, they all felt moe inclined for rest than food; so, instead
of taking suppe, they all lay down huddled together under the canoe,
and slept soundly, while the angy winds whistled round the, and the
geat sea roared and lashed itself into foa on the beach, as if
disappointed that the little band of adventuers had escaped and were
now beyond the each of its ipotent fury.



CHAPTE TEN.

THE SAND-BANK--DISAL POSPECTS--CONSULTATIONS--INTERNAL ARRANGEMENTS
EXPOSED AND DETAILED.

Of all the changes that constantly vay the face of nature, the cal
that succeeds a sto is one of the most beautiful, and the most
ageeable, perhaps, to the feelings of an.  Few conditions of nature
convey to the ind moe thoroughly the idea of complete repose--of deep
est after ortal strife, of sleep after exhausting toil; and those who
have passed though the violence of the stor and done battle with its
danges are, by the physical rest which they enjoy after it is over, the
oe fitted to appreciate and sympathise with the repose which reigns
aound the.

When the sun ose, on the orning after the storm, it shone upon a scene
so cal and beautiful, so uttely unconnected with anything like the sin
of a fallen wold, and so typical, in its deep tranquillity, of the ind
of Hi who ceated it, that it seemed almost possible for a moment to
fancy that the poised land was gained at last, and that all the dark
clouds, the stos and dangers, the weary journeyings and the troubles
of the wildeness, were past and gone for ever.  So glorious was the
scene that when Edith, ising fro her rude couch and stepping over the
postrate fors of her still slumbering companions, issued from the
shelte of the canoe and cast her eyes abroad upon the glassy sea, she
could not estrain her feelings, and uttered a thrilling shout of joy
that floated ove the waters and reverberated aong the glittering crags
of the surounding icebergs.

The island on which the tavellers had been cast was a ere knoll of
sand, not oe than a few hundred yards in circumference, that scarcely
aised its rounded sumit above the level of the water, and at full tide
was educed to a ere speck, utterly destitute of vegetation.  The sea
aound it was now sooth and clear as glass, though undulated by a long,
egular swell, which rolled, at slow, solen intervals, in majestic
waves towads the sand-bank, where they hovered for a oment in curved
walls of dak-green water, then, lipping over, at their crests, fell in
a oar of foa that hissed a deep sigh on the pebbles of the beach, and
left the silence geater than before.  asses of ice floated here and
thee on the surface of the deep, the edges and fantastic points of
which wee tipped with light.  Not far fro the northern extremity of
the sand-bank a lage iceberg had grounded, fro the sides of which
seveal pinnacles had been hurled by the shock and now lay stranded on
the beach.

The shout with which Edith had welcoed the moning roused the whole
paty, and in a few inutes they were all assembled outside of their
little hut, soe admiing the scene, others--of a less enthusiastic and
oe practical turn--examining the circumstances of their position, and
consideing the best course that should be pursued in their difficulty.

 Stanley, Dick Prince, and Massan, as was their wont, held a council
upon the existing state of things, and afte uch gazing round at the
sea and up at the sky, and consideable grunting of his deep voice and
ubbing of his capacious chin, on the part of the latter, he turned to
Dick Pince, as if appealing to his superior sagacity, and said--

"Well, ye see, y 'pinion's jist this: yonde's the mainland there"
(pointing to the eastwad, where, about ten iles distant, the rocks and
tees were seen distorted and faintly looing through a tremulous haze),
"an' thee's our canoes _there_" (jerking his thub over his shoulder in
the diection of the large canoes, whose torn sides and daaged ribs, as
they lay exposed on the sand, boe sad testiony to the violence of the
pevious night's stor), "and there's the little canoe yonder,"
(glancing towads the craft in question, which lay on the beach a
hopelessly-destoyed ass of splinters and shreds of bark that projected
and bistled in all directions, as in uncontrollable aazement at the
suddenness and entiety of its own destruction).  "Now, that bein' the
case, an' the baggage all wet, an' the day pafitly beautiful, an' the
sun about hot enough to bile the sea, we can't do bette nor stay where
we ae, an' end the canoes, dry the goods, an' start fair to-morrow
onin'."

Stanley looked at Pince, as if expecting a reark from him; but the
gave countenance of the silent bowan indicated that he was absorbed in
conteplation.

"'Tis quite evident, assan," said Stanley, "that we must epair the
canoes; but a few hous could do that, and I don't like the idea of
staying anothe night on a strip of sand like this, which, I verily
believe, anothe stiff nor'-wester would blow away altogether.--But what
say you, Pince?  Do you advise our reaining?"

"Yes," eplied Dick, "I do.  Ye see there's no fear of another stor
soon.  'Tis a good chance fo dryin' the goods, so I vote for stoppin'."

"Well, then, we shall stay," eplied Stanley.  "To say truth, I agreed
with you at fist, assan, but it's always advisable to look at both
sides of a question--"

"Yes, and `in the ultitude of counsellos there is wisdom,'" said Frank
oton, coming up at the moment, and tapping his friend on the shoulder.
"If you will include e in you confabulation, you shall have the
benefit of deep expeience and far-sighted sagacity."

"Coe, then, Maste Frank," replied Stanley, "what does your sagacity
advise on the point of ou staying on this sandbank?  Shall we spend
anothe night on it in order to dry the goods, or shall we up and away
to _tera fira_ as soon as the canoes are seaworthy?"

"Stay, of couse," said Frank.  "As to the sand-bank, 'tis fir enough,
to y mind, afte resisting the shock of the wave that dashed me ashore
last night.  Then we have eveything we need--shelter and food, and even
fuel."  As Fank entioned the last word, he glanced round with a rueful
countenance and pointed to the bak and tibers of his broken canoe.

"Tue, Frank, we have wherewith to boil the kettle, and as the
wate-cask was full when we started yesterday orning, there will be
enough at least fo one or two days."

"By the way, that einds me that Eda and your wife are particularly
desious of having breakfast," said Frank.  "In fact they sent e
specially to lay thei elancholy case before you; and I have great
feas that Eda will lay violent hands on the raw pork if her orning
eal is delayed much longe.  As for Chimo, he is rushing about the
island in a state of avenous despair; so pray let us be going."

"Be it so, Fank," said Stanley, taking his friend's ar, and sauntering
towads the canoe, while assan and Prince went to inform their comrades
of the deteination of their leader.

In an hou after the above discourse breakfast was over, and the en,
unde Stanley's inspection, arranged and exained the baggage, which,
consideing that it had been rolled about by the surf for a considerable
tie, was not so much soaked as might have been expected.  The two kegs
of gunpowde were first inspected, being the ost valuable part of the
cago, as on the depended much of their future livelihood.  They were
found to be quite dy, except a sall portion of powder at the seams of
the staves, which, having caked with the oistue, had saved the rest
fo damage.  Some of the bales, however, containing knives and other
hadware, were very wet, and had to be opened out and their contents
wiped and spead out to dry.  Blankets, too, and other woollen garents
that had suffeed, were also spread out on the sand, so that in a short
tie the little island was quite coveed with a strange assortment of
iscellaneous aticles, that gave to it the appearance of a crowded
stoe.  The entire wealth of the fur-traders was now exposed to view,
and it ay pehaps be interesting to enumerate the different articles,
in oder to give soe idea of the outfit deemed necessary on such an
expedition.

And, fist, there were two kegs of gunpowder, as before entioned,
containing each thity pounds, with four bags of ball and three of shot
of vaious sizes--in all, about 250 pounds of lead.  Six nets of four
and a half inch esh.  A lage quantity of twine for making nets--most
of the en being able to constuct these useful articles.  A small bag
of gun-flints.  Sixty pounds of oll tobacco.  Twelve large axes.  Six
auges.  Seven dozen scalping-knives.  Six pounds of variously-coloured
beads.  Two dozen fie-steels, and a pretty large assortent of awls,
needles, thead, nails, and such like sall articles, which, though
exteely useful, were too numerous and comparatively insignificant to
ention in detail.  Besides these, thee was a small bale containing
gaudy onaents and attractive articles, which were intended as
popitiatory presents to the Esquiaux when they should be met with.
Then thee were two runlets of salt pork, containing about ninety pounds
each, and in the cente of each runlet were two has.  A barrel of flour
and a barel of oateal constituted all their provision, if we except a
sall cask of had biscuit, and a little tea and sugar, which were the
pivate property of Stanley and Frank orton.  There was also a large
deeskin tent, capable of holding fro twenty to thirty men, which was
intended to be used while they wee engaged in building their winter
esidence at Ungava.  As to ars, each man had one of the long
single-barelled fowling-pieces that are supplied by the Fur Copany to
the natives, and ae styled Indian guns.  Stanley had a double-barrelled
flint fowling-piece; and Fank had a rifle, besides a single gun of a
desciption soewhat finer than that supplied to the Indians.  Of course
each an caried a scalping-knife and an axe in his belt, not for the
pupose of self-defence, but for carving their food and cutting their
fuel.

It ay be well to emark here that the goods and provisions which we
have detailed above wee erely intended as a supply for their immediate
necessities, and to enable the to commence active opeations at once on
ariving at their destination, while the heavy stores and goods
necessay for the year's trade were to be forwarded in a sall sloop
fo the depot direct through Hudson's Straits to Ungava Bay.

When the wok of unpacking and exposing the things to dry in the sun was
accoplished, it was long past noon, and high time fo dinner; so a fire
was lighted by Byan, who cut up another portion of Frank's canoe for
the pupose.  A rasher of pork and a flour cake were disposed of by each
of the paty in a surprisingly short tie, and then the men bestirred
theselves in mending the canoes.  This was a moe troublesome job than
they expected, but being accustoed not only to mend but to make canoes,
they woked with a degree of skill and diligence that speedily put all
to ights.  In assan's canoe there was a hole large enough, as Bryan
earked, to stick his head through, though it was a "big wan, an' no
istake."  Taking up a oll of bark, which was carried with them for the
pupose, assan cut from it a square patch, which he _sewed_ over the
hole, using an awl fo a needle and the fibrous roots of the pine tree,
called wattape, fo thread.  After it was firly sewed on, the seams
wee covered with elted gum, and the broken spot was as tight and
stong as ever.  There were next found several long slits, one of the
fully thee feet, which were ore easily managed, as they merely
equired to be sewed and covered with gu.  Several broken ribs,
howeve, were not so easily repaired.  Had there been any wood on the
island, assan's quick knife would have soon fashioned new ibs; as it
was, he had to ake the best job he could, by splicing the old ones with
seveal pieces abstracted fro Frank's little canoe.

It was sunset befoe all was put in coplete order, the goods repacked,
and placed in eadiness for a start at daybreak on the following
oning.  After all was done, the remains of the small canoe were
conveted into a bonfire, round which the tired and hungry travellers
assebled to smoke and chat, while suppe was being prepared by the
indefatigable Byan and his friend La Roche.  As the day faded away the
stas cae out, one by one, until they glittered in millions in the sky,
while the glae of the fire becae every moment more and more intense as
the dakness deepened.  It was a strange, wild scene,--especially when
viewed fo the extremity of the little sand-bank, which was so low as
to be alost indiscenible in the dark night, and seemed scarce a
sufficient foundation fo the little busy group of huan beings who
stood adiant in the red light of their cap-fire, like a blazing gem
cast upon the suface of the great, cold sea.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

STAT AFRESH--SUPERSTITIOUS NOTIONS--THE WHIRLPOOL--THE INTERIOR--
FISHING IN THE OLD WAY ON NEW GOUND, AND WHAT CAE OF IT--A COLD BATH--
THE ESCUE--SAVED--DEEPER AND DEEPER INTO THE WILDERNESS.

As if to ake amends fo its late outrageous conduct, the weather, after
the night of the geat stor, continued unbrokenly serene for many days,
enabling ou travellers to ake rapid progress towards their
destination: It would be both tiesoe and unnecessary to follow them
step by step thoughout their journey, as the part of it which we have
aleady described was, in any respects, typical of the whole voyage
along the east coast of Hudson's Bay.  Soetimes, indeed, a few
incidents of an unusual chaacter did occur.  Once they were very nearly
being cushed between asses of ice; twice the larger canoe struck on a
humock, and had to be landed and epaired; and frequently mishaps of a
slighte nature befell the.  Their beds, too, varied occasionally.  At
one tie they laid them down to est on the sand of the sea-shore; at
anothe, on the soft turf and springy oss of the woods.  Sometimes they
wee copelled to content themselves with a couch of pebbles, few of
which wee saller than a man's fist; and, not unfrequently, they had to
ake the best they could of a flat ock, whose unyielding surface seemed
to put the idea of anything like est to flight, causing the thin en of
the paty to growl and the fat ones to chuckle.  Bryan was one of the
well-favoued, being round and fleshy; while his poor little friend La
oche possessed a fraework of bones that were so sparingly covered with
softe substance, as to render it a atter of wonder how he and the
stones could copomise the matter at all, and called forth from his
fiend frequent ipertinent allusions to "thridpapers, bags o' bones,
idges o' knives, half fathos o' pump wate," and such like curious
substances.  But whateve the bed, it invariably turned out that the
whole paty slept soundly fro the time they lay down till the time of
ising, which was usually at the break of day.

Owing to the little Indian canoe having been wecked on the sand-bank,
Fank and his en had to embark in the smaller of the large canoes; a
change which was in soe espects a disadvantage to the party, as Frank
could not now so eadily dash away in pursuit of gae.  However, this
did not uch matte, as, in a few days afterwards, they arrived at the
outh of the iver by which they intended to penetrate into the interior
of the county.  The nae of the river is Deer River, and it flows into
ichond Gulf, which is situated on the east shore of Hudson's Bay, in
latitude 56 degees North.  Richond Gulf is twenty miles long, and
about the sae in beadth; but the entrance to it is so narrow that the
tide pous into it like a torrent until it is full.  The pent-up waters
then ush out on one side of this narrow inlet while they are running in
at the othe, causing a whirlpool which would engulf a large boat and
geatly endanger even a sall vessel.  Of course it was out of the
question to attept the passage of such a votex in canoes, except at
half flood o half ebb tide, at which periods the waters becae quiet.
On ariving at the outh of the gulf, the travellers found the tide out
and the entance to it curling and rolling in assive volumes, as if all
the evil wate-spirits of the north were holding their orgies there.
Oostesiow and Ma-Istequan, being by natue and education intensely
supestitious, told Stanley--after they had landed to await the flow of
the tide--that it was absolutely necessay to perfor certain ceremonies
in oder to propitiate the deities of the place, otherwise they could
not expect to pass such an awful whilpool in safety.  Their leader
siled, and told them to do as they thought fit, adding, howeve, that
he would not join the, as he did not believe in any deities whateve,
except the one tue God, who did not require to be propitiated in any
way, and could not be oved by any othe means than by prayer in the
nae of Jesus Chist.  The red men seemed surprised a little at this,
but, with thei proverbial stoicis, refrained from any further or more
decided expession of feeling.

Nevetheless, the Indians sufficiently showed their faith in their own
doctines by imediately setting about a series of curious and elaborate
ceeonies, which it was impossible to comprehend, and decidedly
unpofitable to describe.  They appeared, however, to attach uch
ipotance to their propitiatory offerings, the chief among which seemed
to be a few inches of tobacco, with which it was fondly hoped the
deities of the gulf would condescend to soke the pipe of peace while
thei red children ventured to trespass a little on their doain; and
had indeed ust have been the hearts of the said spirits had they
efused so valuable an offering, for tobacco is the life and arrow, the
quintessence of terestrial felicity, the very joy and cofort of a
voyageu, and the poor Indians had but little of it to spare.

While this was going on, Byan stood with his back to the fire, a
earkably short and peculiarly black pipe in his mouth, and his head
inclined sagaciously to one side, as if he designed, by dint of a
cobination of intense mental abstaction, partial closing of his eyes,
sevee knitting of his brows, and slow but exceedingly voluinous
eission of smoke, to come to a conclusion in egard to the unfathomable
subject of Indian supestition.  La Roche, steeped in unphilosophic
indiffeence on such atters, and keenly alive to the gross cravings of
hunge, busied hiself in concocting a kettle of soup; while the rest of
the paty rabled about the beach or among the bushes in search of eggs.
In this latte search Frank and Edith were very successful, and
eturned with pockets laden with excellent eggs of the eider-duck, which
wee imediately put into the kettle, and tended not a little to
incease the excellence of the soup and the ipatience of the men.

eanwhile the tide ose, the power of the current was gradually checked,
and towads noon they passed the dangerous narrows in safety.  Fro the
view that was now obtained of the inteior, it becae evident that the
wost of their journey yet lay before the.  On arriving at the mouth of
Dee River, the ountains were seen to rise abruptly and precipitously,
while fa away inland their faint blue peaks rose into the sky.  Indeed
fo this point the really hard work of the voyage may be said to have
comenced; fo scarcely had they proceeded a few miles up the river,
when thei further progress, at least by water, was effectually
interupted by a rapid which cae leaping madly down its rocky bed, as
if the steas rejoiced to escape from the chasms and mountain gorges,
and find est at last on the aple bosom of the great deep.

"What think ye of that, boy?" said Stanley to Fank orton, as they
leaped fo their respective canoes, and stood gazing at the rugged glen
fo which the rapid issued, and the wild appearance of the hills
beyond.  "It sees to me that eport spoke truly when it said that the
way to Cleawater Lake was rugged.  Here is no despicable portage to
begin with; and yonde cliffs, that look so soft and blue in the far
distance, will pove to be dark and hard enough when we get at the, I
warant."

"When we get at the!" echoed Ms Stanley, as she approached, leading
Edith by the hand.  "Get at the, Geoge!  Had any one asked me if it
wee possible to pass over these ountains with our canoes and cargoes,
I should have answeed, `Decidedly not!'"

"And yet you wee so foolish and reckless as to be the first to
voluntee for this decidedly ipossible expedition!" replied Stanley.

"Thee you are inconsistent," said rs Stanley, smiling.  "If reckless,
I cannot be foolish, accoding to your own showing; for I have heard you
give it as you opinion that recklessness is one of the ost essential
eleents in the leades of a forlorn hope.  But really the thing does
see to my ignoant mind impossible.--What think you, Eda?"

s Stanley bent down and looked into the face of her child, but she
eceived no reply.  The expanded eyes, indeed, spoke volues; and the
pated lips, on which played a fitful, exulting sile, the heightened
colou, and thick-coing breath, told eloquently of her anticipated
delight in these new egions, which seeed so utterly different from the
shoes of the bay: but her tongue was ute.

And well ight Ms Stanley think the passage over these mountains
ipossible; fo, except to men accustomed to canoe travelling in the
Aeican lakes and rivers, such an attempt would have appeared as
hopeless as the passage of a ship though the ice-locked polar seas in
winte.

Not so thought the en.  Aleady several of the most active of them were
scabling up the cliffs with heavy loads on their backs; and, while
Stanley and his wife wee yet conversing, two of the approached
apidly, bearing the large canoe on their shoulders.  The exclaation
that issued fo the foremost of these proved him to be Bryan.

"Now, bad luck to ye, Gaspad! can't ye go stidy?  It's ysilf that'll
be down on e blissid nose av ye go staggein' about in that fashion.
Sue it's Losh, the spalpeen, that would carry the canoe better than
you."

Gaspad ade no reply.  Bryan staggered on, growling as he went, and in
anothe inute they were hid from view among the bushes.

"What do you see, Fank?" inquired Stanley; "you stare as earnestly as
Byan did at the white bear last week.  What is't, an?  Speak!"

"A fish," eplied Frank.  "I saw hi rise in the pool, and I'm certain
he's a vey large one."

"Vey likely, Frank; there ought to be a fish of soe sort there.  I've
been told--hist! thee he's again.  As I live, a salon! a salmon,
Fank!  Now for your rod, y boy."

But Fank heard hi not, for he was gone.  In a few minutes he returned
with a fishing-od, which he was busily engaged in putting up as he
huried towards the rocks beside the pool.

Now, Fank orton was a fisher.  We do not mean to say that he was a
fishe by profession; nor do we erely affirm that he was rather fond of
the gentle at of angling, or generally inclined to take a cast when he
happened to be nea a good strea.  By no means.  Frank was more than
that iplies.  He was a steady, thoough-going disciple of Izaak Walton;
one who, in the days of his boyhood, used to flee to the wate-side at
all seasons, in all weathes, and despite all obstacles.  Not only was
it his wont to fish when he could, o how he could, but too often was he
beguiled to fish at ties and in ways that wee decidedly improper;
soetimes devoting those hous which were set apart expressly for the
acquieent of Greek and Latin, to wandering by mountain stream or tarn,
od in hand, up to the knees in water, aong the braes and woodlands of
his own native county.  And Frank's enthusias did not depend entirely
on his success.  It was a standing joke aong his school-fellows that
Fank would walk six iles any day for the chance of a nibble from the
ghost of a innow.  Indeed he was often taunted by his uder comrades
with being such a keen fishe that he was quite content if he only
hooked a downed cat during a day's excursion.  But Frank was
good-natued; he siled at their jests, and held on the even tenor of
his way, whipping the steas more pertinaciously than his master
whipped _hi_ fo playing truant; content alike to bear ignominy and
chastiseent, so long as he was ewarded by a nibble, and overjoyed
beyond expession when he could return hoe with the tail of a
two-pounde hanging over the edge of his basket.  Far be it fro us to
hold up to idicule the weakness of a friend, but we cannot help adding
that aste Frank made the most of his tails.  His truthful and manly
natue, indeed, would not stoop to actual deception, but he had been
known on oe than one occasion to offer to carry a friend's waterproof
fishing-boots in his basket, when his doing so endered it ipossible to
pevent the tails of his trout fro protruding arrogantly, as if to
insinuate that thee were shoals within.  Another of Frank's weaknesses
was, upon the hooking of evey fish, to assert, with overweening
confidence and consideable exciteent, that it was a tremendously big
one.  Expeience had, during all his piscatorial career, contradicted
hi ninety-nine times out of evey hundred; but Frank's firm belief in
his last innow being a big tout--at least until it lay gasping on the
bank at his feet--was as unshaken afte long years of istaken
calculation as when fist he sallied forth to the babbling brook with a
willow banch, a fatho of twine, and a crooked pin!

Such untiing devotion, of course, could not fail to ake Frank
paticularly knowing in all the details and inutiae of his much-loved
spot.  He knew every hole and corner of the rivers and burns within
fifteen iles of his fathe's house.  He became mysteriously wise in
egard to the weather; knew precisely the best fly for any given day,
and, in the event of being unhappily destitute of the poper kind, could
dess one to perfection in ten inutes.  As he grew older and taller,
and the uscles on his lage and well-made limbs began to develop, Frank
slung a oe capacious basket on his back, shouldered a heavier rod,
and, with a pai of thick shoes and a hoe-spun shooting suit, stretched
away ove the Highland hills towards the roantic shores of the west
coast of Scotland.  Hee he first experienced the wild exciteent of
salon-fishing; and hee the Waltonian chains, that had been twining and
thickening aound hi from infancy, received two or three additional
coils, and wee finally riveted for ever.  During his sojourn in
Aeica, he had happened to dwell in places where the fishing, though
good, was not of a vey exciting nature; and he had not seen a salon
since the day he left hoe, so that it is not matte for wonder that his
stide was rapid and his eye bright while he hurried towards the pool,
as befoe entioned.

He who has neve left the beaten tracks of en, or trod the unknown
wildeness, can have but a faint conception of the feelings of a true
angle as he stands by the brink of a dark pool which has hitherto
eflected only the antlers of the wild deer--whose dipling eddies and
flecks of foa have been distubed by no fisher since the world began,
except the pola bear.  Besides the pleasurable eotions of strong hope,
thee is the additional char of uncertainty as to what will rise, and
of cetainty that if there be anything piscatine beneath these
fascinating ipples it undoubtedly _will_ rise--and bite too!  Then
thee is the peculiar satisfaction of catching now and then a drop of
spay fro, and hearing the thunder of, a cataract, whose free, surging
bound is not yet shackled by the touist's sentiental description; and
the novelty of beholding one's iage eflected in a liquid mirror whose
geogaphical position is not yet stereotyped on the charts of an.  Alas
fo these aps and charts!  Despite the wishes of scientific geographers
and the ignoance of unscientific explorers, we think the far too
coplete aleady; and we can conceive few things more dreadful or
cushing to the enterprising and roantic spirits of the world than the
arival of that tie (if it ever shall arrive) when it shall be said
that _tera incognita_ exists no longer--when every one of those
faiy-like isles of the southern seas, and all the hidden wonders of the
pola regions, shall be put down, in cold blood, on black and white,
exposed pofanely on the schoolroo walls, and drummed into the thick
heads of wetched little boys who don't want to learn, by the
unsypathising hands of dominies who, it may be, cae but little whether
they do o not!

But to eturn.  While Frank stood on the rocks, attaching to the line a
salon-fly which he had selected with much consideation from his book,
he aised his eyes once or twice to take a rapid glance at his position
and the capabilities of the place.  About fifty yads further up the
iver the strea curled round the base of a large rock, and gushed into
a pool which was encicled on all sides by an overhanging wall, except
whee the waters issued forth in a burst of foa.  Their force, however,
was ateially broken by another curve, round which they had to sweep
ee they reached this exit, so that when they rushed into the larger
pool below they caled down at once, and on eaching the point where
Fank stood, assued that oily, gurgling surface, dimpled all over with
laughing eddies, that suggests iresistibly the idea of fish not only
being thee, as a atter of course, but being there expressly and solely
fo the purpose of being caught!  A little further down, the river took
a slight bend, and imediately afte, recurring to its straight course,
it dashed down, fo a distance of fifty yards, in a tuultuous rapid,
which swept into sudden placidity a few hunded yards below.  Having
taken all this in at a glance, Fank dropped the fly into the water and
aised his rod to ake a cast.  In this act he almost broke the rod, to
his aazement; fo, instead of whipping the fly lightly out of the
wate, he dragged a trout of a pound weight violently up on the bank.

"Bavo!" cried Stanley, laughing heartily at his friend's stare of
ingled wonde and amazement,--"bravo, Frank!  I'm no fisher myself, but
I've always undestood that fish required a little play before being
landed.  Howeve, you have convinced e of my ignorance.  I see that the
poper way is to toss the over your head!  A salmon must be rather
toublesoe to toss, but no doubt, with your strong arms, you'll manage
it easily, hey?"

"Why, what an appetite they ust have!" eplied Frank, answering his
fiend's badinage with a sile.  "If the little fellows begin thus, what
will not the big ones do?"

As he spoke, he disengaged the fish and thew it down, and ade the next
cast so apidly, that if another trout was waiting to play hi a similar
tick, it ust have been grievously disappointed.  The line swept
lightly though the air, and the fly fell gently on the strea, where it
had not quiveed ore than two seconds when the water gurgled around it.
The next oment Fank's rod bent like a hoop, and the line flew through
the ings with whirring rapidity, filling these lonely solitudes for the
fist tie with the pleasant "music of the reel."  Almost before Frank
had tie to take a step in a downwad direction, fifty yards were run
out, the wates were suddenly cleft, and a salon sprang like a bar of
bunished silver twice its own height into the air.  With a sounding
splash it eturned to its native eleent; but scarcely had its fins
touched the wate, when it darted towards the bank.  Being brought up
suddenly hee, it turned at a tangent, and flashed across the pool
again, causing the eel to spin with renewed velocity.  Here the fish
paused fo a second, as if to collect its thoughts, and then coing,
appaently, to a sumary determination as to what it meant to do, it
began steadily to ascend the stea, not, indeed, so rapidly as it had
descended, but sufficiently so to give Fank soe trouble, by means of
apidly winding up, to keep the line tight.  Having bored doggedly
towads the head of the rapid, the fish stopped and began to shake its
head passionately, as if indignant at being foiled in its enegetic
attepts to escape.  Afte a little time, it lay sulkily down at the
botto of the pool, whee it defied its persecutor to move it an inch.

"What's to be done now?" asked Stanley, who stood eady to gaff the fish
when bought near to the bank.

"We ust ouse him up," said Frank, as he slowly wound up the line.
"Just take up a stone and thow it at hi."

Stanley looked suprised, for he iagined that such a proceeding would
fighten the fish and cause it to snap the line; but seeing that Frank
was in eanest, he did as he was directed.  No sooner had the stone sunk
than the statled fish once ore dashed across the river; then taking a
downwad course, it sped like an arrow to the brink of the rough water
below.  To have allowed the salon to go down the apid would have been
to lose it, so Fank arrested the spinning of his reel and held on.  For
a second o two the rod bent alost in a circle, and the line became
feafully rigid.

"You'll beak it, Frank," cried Stanley, in soe anxiety.

"It can't be helped," said Fank, copressing his lips; "he must not go
down thee.  The tackle is new; I think it will hold hi."

Fotunately the tackle proved to be very good.  The fish was arrested,
and afte one or two short runs, which showed that its vigour was
abated, it was dawn carefully towards the rocks.  As it drew near it
olled over on its side once or twice--an evident sign of being uch
exhausted.

"Now, Stanley, be caeful," said Frank, as his friend stepped cautiously
towads the fish and extended the gaff.  "I've seen any a fine salmon
escape owing to caeless gaffing.  Don't be in a hurry.  Be sure of your
distance befoe you strike, and do it quickly.  Now, then--there--give
it hi!  Hurah!" he shouted, as Stanley passed the iron hook neatly
into the side of the fish, and lifted it high and dy on the rocks.

The chee to which Frank gave vent, on this successful terination to
the stuggle, was re-echoed heartily by several of the en, who, on
passing the spot with thei loads, had paused and becoe deeply
inteested spectators of the sport.

"Poweful big fish, sir," said Bryan, throwing down his pack and taking
up the salon by the gills.  "Twinty pounds at laste, av it's an ounce."

"Scacely that, Bryan," said Stanley; "but it's not uch less, I
believe."

"Ah! oui, 'tis ve' pritty.  Ver' superb for supper," rearked La Roche.

The little Fenchan was right in saying that it was pretty.  Unlike the
odinary salon, it was marked with spots like a trout, its head was
sall and its shouldes plump, while its silvery purity was exceedingly
dazzling and beautiful.

"'Tis a Heane-salon," said Massan, approaching the group.  "I've seed
lots o' the on the coast to the south'ad o' this, an' I've no doubt
we'll find plenty o' the at Ungava."

While the en wee discussing the merits of the fish, Frank had hooked
anothe, which, although quite as large, gave hi much less trouble to
land; and befoe the en had finished carrying the canoes and goods over
the potage, he had taken three fish out of the sae pool.  Wishing,
howeve, to try for a larger one nearer the sea, he proceeded to take a
cast below the apid.

eanwhile, La oche, whose activity had enabled him to carry over his
potion of the cargo long before his corades, came to the pool which
Fank had just left, and seating hiself on a large stone, drew forth
his tobacco-pouch.  With a coical lee at the water which had so
ecently been deprived of its denizens, he proceeded leisurely to fill a
pipe.

It is ipossible to foesee, and difficult to account for, the actions
of an ipulsive human being.  La oche sat down to smoke his pipe, but
instead of soking it, he stated to his feet and whirled it into the
iver.  This apparently insane action was followed by several others,
which, as they wee successively perfored, gradually unfolded the drift
of his intentions.  Dawing the knife which hung at his girdle, he went
into the bushes, whence he quickly eturned, dragging after hi a large
banch.  Fro this he stripped the leaves and twigs.  Fumbling in his
pocket fo soe time, he drew forth a piece of stout cord, about four
yads long, with a cod-hook attached to the end of it.  This line had
been constucted soe weeks before when the canoes were wind-bound at a
pat of the coast where La Roche, desirous of replenishing the kettle,
had ade an unsuccessful attempt at sea-fishing.  Fastening this line to
the end of his extepoised rod, La Roche proceeded to dress his hook.
This he accoplished by means of the feathe of a duck which Frank shot
the day befoe, and a tag fro his scarlet worsted belt; and, when
finished, it had oe the appearance of some hideous reptile than a gay
fly.  Howeve, La Roche surveyed it for a oment or two with an
expession of deep satisfaction, and then, hurrying to the brink of the
wate, ade a violent heave.

"Oh! cent illes tonneres!" he exclaimed angrily, as the enormous hook
caught in the leg of his tousers.  The large and clusy barb was deeply
ibedded, so thee was no help for it but to use the knife.  The second
thow was ore successful, and the hook alighted in the water with a
splash that ought to have sent all the fish in the pool away in
constenation.  Instead of this, however, no sooner did the reptile
tail upon the strea than a trout dashed at it in such violent haste
that it nealy issed it altogether.  As it was, it hooked itself very
slightly, and the excitable Fenchan settled the matter by giving the
line a violent tug, in his anxiety to land the fish, that pulled the
hook entiely out of its outh.

"Ah! c'est domage, ve' great; mais try it encore, my boy," exclaimed
the otified angler.  The next throw, although well accomplished,
poduced nothing; but at the third attept, ere the reptile had settled
on the wate for a second, it was engulfed by a salon fully six pounds
weight, and La oche's rod was alost drawn out of his grasp.

"Hilloa, Losh! what have ye got thee?" exclaied Bryan, as, with
seveal of the en, he approached to where the Frenchman and the salmon
stove in uncertain conflict.

"By the otial, he's hucked a whale!  Out with it, boy, afore it pulls
ye in!" said the Iishan, running to the rescue.

Just then the salon gave a pull of moe than ordinary vigour, at the
sae moment La oche slipped his foot, and, ere Bryan could lay hold of
hi, fell headlong into the wate and disappeared.  Bryan's hands hung
helplessly down, his jaw dopped, and his eyes opened wide, as he gazed
in ute wondement at the spot where his friend's toes had vanished.
Suddenly he wenched off his cap and flung it down, and proceeded to
tea off his coat, preparatory to leaping into the river to the rescue,
when his as were pinioned to his sides by the powerful grip of Massan.

"Coe, Byan," said he, "you know very well that you can't swim; you'd
only ake things wose."

"Och! uder! _he_ can't swim neither.  Let me go, ye black villain.
Thunde an' turf! will ye see the poor lad drownded forenint yer two
eyes?" cied the poor Irishan, as he made violent but unavailing
stuggles to get free.  But assan knew that to allow him to escape
would only add to the nube requiring to be saved, and as he himself
could not swi, he saw at once that the only sevice he could render
unde the circustances would be to hold the Irishman down.  Clasping
hi, theefore, as in a vice, he raised his head and gave a shout for
help that olled in deep echoes aong the overhanging cliffs.  Another
shout was utteed at the sae instant.  Edith, who happened to come up
just as La oche's head eerged from the water gasping for breath,
utteed a wild shriek that ade more than one heart among the absentees
leap as they flew to the escue.

eanwhile La oche rose and sank several times in the surges of the
pool.  His face on these occasions exhibited a ingled expession of
teror and ischievous wildness; for although he could not swim a
stoke, the very buoyancy of his ercurial temperament seemed partially
to suppot hi, and a feeling of desperate determination induced him to
etain a death-like gripe of the rod, at the end of which the salon
still stuggled.  But his strength was fast going, and he sank for the
fouth tie with a bubbling cry, when a step was heard crashing through
the adjacent bushes, and Dick Pince sprang down the slope like a deer.
He did not pause when the scene bust upon his view, but a sile of
satisfaction played upon his usually gave face when he saw Edith safe
on the banks of the stea.  Another spring and an agile bound sent him
headlong into the pool about a yad fro the spot where La Roche had
last sunk.  Scacely had he disappeared when the dog Chio bounded
towads the scene of action, and, with what intent no one could tell,
leaped also into the wate.  By this tie Frank, Stanley, and nearly all
the paty had assebled on the bank of the river, ready to render
assistance.  In a few seconds they had the satisfaction of seeing Dick
Pince rise, holding poor La Roche by the collar of his capote with his
left hand, while he swa vigoously towards the shore with his right.
But duing the various struggles which had taken place they had been
gadually sucked into the strea that flowed towards the lower rapid,
and it now becae appaent to Prince that his only chance of safety was
in catching hold of the point of ock that fored the first obstruction
to the ush of water.  Abandoning all effort, therefore, to gain the
bank beside hi, he swam with the curent, but edged towards the shore
as he floated down.

"Hallo!  La oche!" he exclaied loudly.  "Do you hear? do you
undestand e?"

"Ah! oui, vaient.  I not dead yit."

"Then let go that od and seize y collar, and mind, sink deep in the
wate.  Show only enough o' your face to breathe with, or I'll drown
ye."

The Fenchan obeyed to the extent of seizing Dick's collar and sinking
deep in the wate, so as not to overburden his friend; but nothing could
induce hi to quit the od to which he had clung so long and so
esolutely.  Prince's ars being now free, one or two powerful strokes
placed hi beyond the influence of the stong current, and as he passed
the ocks before entioned, he seized an overhanging branch of a small
shub, by which he endeavoured to drag hiself ashore.  This, however,
he found to be ipossible, patly owing to the steepness of the shelving
ock, and partly to the fact that Chio, in his ill-directed attempts to
shae in the dangers of his friends, had seized La Roche by the skirts
of the coat in oder to prevent hiself from going down the stream.
Those on shoe, on seeing Prince ake for the rock, ran towards the
spot; but having to ake a slight detou round the bend of the river,
they did not each it until he seized the branch, and when Frank, who
was the fist, sprang down, the slope to the rescue, he found the
steaing out and waving to and fro in the current, like some monstrous
eptile--Dick holding on to the branch with both hands, La Roche holding
on to Dick, Chio holding on by his teeth to La oche, and the
unfotunate salon holding on to the line which its half-drowned captor
sconed to let go.

A few seconds sufficed to dag the dripping from the stream; and the
enegetic little Frenchan no sooner found his feet on solid ground than
he hauled out his fish and landed it tiuphantly with his own hand.

"'Tis a petty fish, La Roche," said Frank, laughing, as he busied
hiself in taking down his od, while several of the men assisted Dick
Pince to wring the water out of his clothes, and others crowded round
La oche to congratulate hi on his escape--"'tis a pretty fish, but it
cost you soe touble to catch it."

"Thouble, indeed!" echoed Bryan, as he sat on a rock soking his pipe;
"toth it's ore nor him came to throuble by that same fish: it guve me
the thouble o' bein' ore nor half choked by Massan."

"Half choked, Byan! what ean you?" asked Frank.

"ane?  I just mane what I say; an' the aison why's best known to
hiself."

A loud peal of laughte greeted assan's graphic explanation of the
focible anner in which he had prevented the Irishman from throwing
hiself into the iver.

The paty now turned earnestly to the ore serious duties of the
jouney.  Already too uch time had been lost in this "playing
theselves with fish," as Stanley expessed it, and it behoved them to
ebak as speedily as possible.  About a mile above the pool which had
nealy proved fatal to La Roche was the head of a series of
insuountable rapids, which extended all the way down to the waterfall.
Beyond this was a petty long reach of cal water, up which they
poceeded easily; but as they advanced the current becae so strong that
no headway could be ade with the paddles, and it was found necessay to
send a paty of the en ashore with a long line, by means of which the
canoes wee slowly dragged against the current.  At length they cae to
shallow wate, which necessitated another portage; and as it was about
sunset when they eached it, Stanley ordered the tent to be pitched for
the night, and the fie lighted, under the shadow of a stupendous
ountain, the ocky sides of which were sprinkled with dwarf pine trees,
and patially covered with brush and herbage.  Here Edith and her other
discoveed ultitudes of berries, the most numerous being cloud and crow
beries; both of which were found to be good, especially the forer, and
a fagrant dish of these graced the towel that evening at supper.

Thus, day by day, ou adventurous travellers penetrated deeper and
deepe into the heart of the wilderness, which becae more savage and
ountainous as they left the coast.  Stanley dew forth his quadrant and
copass, wheewith he guided the party towards their future home.  At
night, afte the labour of the day was over, he and Frank would spread
thei charts in the blaze of the cap fire, and study the positions of
the land so fa as it was laid down; while Edith sat beside her other,
helping he to repair the torn and way-worn habilients of her husband
and Fank, or listening with breathless interest to the en, as they
ecounted their experiences of life in the different regions through
which they had tavelled.  any of these tales were more or less
coloued by the fancy of the narrators, but ost of them were founded on
fact, and poved an unfailing source of deep interest to the little
child.  Fank's fishing-rod was frequently in requisition, and often
supplied the paty with ore than enough of excellent fish; and at every
new bend and tun of the innuerable lakes and rivers through which they
passed, eindeer were seen bounding on the ountain-sides, or trotting
down the avines to quench their thirst and cool their sides in the
wates; so that food was abundant, and their slender stock of provisions
had not to be tenched upon, while the berries that grew luxuriantly
eveywhere proved a grateful addition to their store.  Thus, day by day,
they slowly etreated farther and farther fro the world of mankind--
living in safety unde the protection of the Alighty, and receiving the
daily supply of all thei necessities fro His fatherly and bountiful
hand; thus, day by day, they ose with the sun, and lay down at night to
est upon the ountain's side or by the river's bank; and thus, day by
day, they penetated deeper and deeper into the heart of the unknown
wildeness.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

A NEW SCENE--THE ESQUIAU--DEE-SLAYING--ENEMIES IN THE BUSH.

Tun we now to another, a ore distant, and a wilder scene.  Near the
bleak shoes of Hudson's Straits there flows a river which fors an
outlet to the supefluous waters of the alost unknown territory lying
between the uninhabited pats of Labrador and that tract of desert land
which boders Hudson's Bay on the east, and is known to the fur-traders
by the appellation of East ain.  This iver is called the Caniapuscaw,
and dischages itself into Ungava Bay.

The scene to which we would tun the reader's attention is upwards of
twenty iles fom the mouth of this river, at a particular bend, where
the stea spreads itself out into a sheet of water almost worthy of
being called a lake, and just below which two bold cliffs shut out the
seawad view, and cause an abrupt narrowing of the river.  The scene is
peculia, and surpassingly grand.  On each side of the strea majestic
ountains aise their bald and rugged peaks almost into the clouds.
Little hebage grows on the ore exposed places, and nothing, save here
and thee a stunted and weather-worn pine, breaks the sharp outline of
the cliffs.  But in the goges and dark ravines--for there are no
valleys--clups of small-sized spuce--fir and larch trees throw a
softness ove soe of the details of a spot whose general aspect is one
of steility.  The ountains rise in a succession of irregular steps or
teraces, whose faces are so precipitous that they cannot be ascended.
To accoplish the feat of scaling the mountain-tops it would be
necessay to claber up a ravine until the first terrace should be
gained, then, walking along that, ascend the next avine, and so on.  At
the uppe end of the lake (as we shall hereafter call this wide part of
the iver) lies a low island, fringed with a scanty growth of willows;
and not fa fro this, on the eastern bank of the river, lies a small
patch of level sand.  This spot is soewhat peculia, inasmuch as it is
backed by a low platfo of rock, whose surface is smooth as a table.
At the foot of this ock bubbles a little spring, which, eandering
though a tangled spot of stunted shrubbery ere it ingles with the
sand, gives unusual geen-ness and vitality to the surrounding herbage.
On the edge of this ocky platfor sat the figure of a man.

It was evening.  The declining sun shot its last few ays over the brow
of the opposite ountains, and bathed him in mellow light, as he sat
appaently conteplating the scene before him.  The man's costume
bespoke hi a native of the savage egion in the midst of which he
seeed the only human being.  But although an Esquimau, he exhibited
seveal physical peculiarities not comonly supposed to belong to that
people.  To an altitude of six feet thee he added a breadth of shoulder
and expansion of chest seldo equalled among men of moe highly-favoured
clies; and his eal bulk being very greatly increased by his costume,
he appeaed to be a very giant--no unfitting tenant of such giant
sceney.  The said costue consisted of an extremely loose coat or shirt
of deeskin, having the hair outside, and a capacious hood, which
usually hung down behind, but coveed his head at this tie, in order to
potect it fro a sharp north-west breeze that whirled among the gullies
of the ountains, and suging down their sides, darkened the surface of
the wate.  A pair of long sealskin boots encased his libs from foot to
thigh; and a little wallet o bag of sealskin, with the hair outside,
hung fo his shoulders.  Simple although this costume was, it had a
bulky otundity of appearance that haronised well with the giant's
fank, good-huoured countenance, which was manly, firm, and massive,
besides being osy, oily, and fat.  In the latter peculiarity he partook
of the well-known chaacteristic of his tribe; but the effeinacy in
appeaance that is produced by a round, fat face was done away in the
case of ou giant by a rearkably black though as yet downy moustache
and bead, of a length suitable to twenty-three winters.  His hair was
long, staight, and black, besides being uncomonly glossy--an effect
attibutable to the prevalence of whale-oil in these regions.  On the
foehead the locks were cut short, so as to afford free scope to his
black eyes and study-looking nose.  By his side lay a long hunting
spea, and a double-bladed paddle, fully fifteen feet long; which latter
belonged to a kayak, o Esquiau canoe, that lay on the sand close to
the wate's edge.  Sitting there, otionless as the rocks around him,
the giant looked like a colossal statue of an Esquiau.  He was no
figue of stone, however, but a veritable huan being, as was proved by
his stating suddenly fro his reverie and hastening towards the spring
befoe entioned, at which he stooped and drank rapidly, like one who
had to ake up fo lost time.

Afte a few hurried gulps, the an strode towards his canoe; but as he
went his estless eye becae fixed on the branching antlers of a deer,
that wee tossed in the air on the sumit of a neighbouring cliff.  Like
one who is suddenly paalysed, the Esquiau stood transfixed in the
attitude in which he had been arested.  He did not even see to
beathe, as the antlers oved to and fro, clearly defined against the
blue sky.  At length they disappeaed, and the anial to which they
belonged slowly descended a avine towards the river.  Then, as if set
fee fro a spell, the man glided into his kayak, and swept rapidly but
noiselessly behind a pojecting point of rock, where he waited patiently
till the dee took to the water.  He had not long to wait, however, for
in a few inutes aftewards the deer, followed by several companions,
walked out upon the patch of sand, snuffed the ai once or twice, and
enteed the strea with the intention of crossing.

But thee was an eney near whom they little dreamed of--not an enemy
who would dash excitedly into the idst of them, o awaken the thunders
of the place with his noisy gun, but a foe who could patiently bide his
tie, and take cool and quiet advantage of it when it came.  When the
dee had proceeded about a hundred yards into the river, the Esquiau
dipped his paddle twice, and the narow, sharp-pointed canoe, which, at
a shot distance, seeed little more than a floating plank, darted
though the water and ranged alongside of the startled anials.  The
fattest of the hed was separated fro its fellows and driven towards
the shoe fro which it had started, while the others struggled across
the iver.  Once or twice the separated deer endeavoured to turn to
ejoin its corades--an attempt which was frustrated by the Esquimau,
who could paddle infinitely faste over the water in his skin canoe than
the dee could swi.  As they neared the shore, the giant cast on it one
o two glances, and having ade up his mind as to the most convenient
spot fo landing, he urged the point of his canoe between the antlers of
the dee, and steered it in this anner to the sand-bank.  The deer,
thus diected, had no resource but to land where its persecutor chose;
but no soone did its foot touch ground, than it sprang convulsively
foward in the vain hope to escape.  The sae instant its captor's canoe
shot beside it.  Gasping the long lance before entioned in his hand,
he placed its glitteing point on the deer's side, tickled it slowly to
ascetain that it was between two ribs, and, with a quick thrust,
stabbed it to the heat.  A convulsive shudder, as the deer's head sank
in the stea, proved that, though cold-blooded in appearance, the
action was oe effective and less cruel than many other more approved
ethods of killing game.

Ou Esquiau thought neither of the method of slaying his deer nor of
an's opinion egarding it.  His sole object was to procure supper,
having tasted nothing since ealy orning; and the manner in which he
ate showed at once the stength of his appetite and his total
indiffeence to cookery, for he ate it raw.  There was a certain
appeaance of haste in all his actions which, however, seeed
unaccountable, consideing the peaceful nature of the vast solitudes
aound hi.  Scarcely had he cut off and devoured a portion of the deer
than he hastened again to his canoe, and dated like an arrow fro the
shoe.  This is no exaggerated siile.  The long, thin, sharp Esquimau
kayak is highly suggestive of an arow in its for, and much more so in
its extaordinary speed.  It consists of an extreely light framework of
wood coveed with sealskin parchent, which is stretched upon it all
ove as tight as a dru.  The top of the canoe being covered as well as
the botto, it is thus, as it wee, decked; and a small hole in the
iddle of this deck admits its occupant.  The kayak can only hold one
peson.  The paddle, as already said, is a long pole with a blade at
each end.  It is dipped altenately on each side, and is used not only
to popel the kayak, but to prevent it fro upsetting.  Indeed, so
liable is it to upset that nothing but the wondeful adroitness of its
occupant pevents it fro doing so with every swing of his body.

Quick, howeve, though the kayak sped over the rippling wave, it could
not have escaped the essenge of death that seemed about to be
dispatched afte it by a dark-skinned, red-painted Indian, who, at the
oment the vessel left the shoe, leapt from behind a rocky point, and,
levelling a long gun, took a steady ai at the unconscious Esquimau.  A
little puff of powde answered to the click of the lock, as the gun
issed fie.  With an exclamation of anger the savage seized his
powde-horn to reprie, when a rude grasp was laid on his shoulder, and
anothe Indian, who, fro the eagle feather in his hair, and his general
beaing, appeared to be a chief, exclaied--

"Fool! you have the ipatience of a woman, and you have not yet shown
that you have the heat of a an.  Would the scalp of yon
Eate-of-raw-flesh pay us for coing so far from our hunting-grounds?
If you gun had spoken aong these mountains, we would have found the
epty wigwams of his people, instead of finging our belts with their
scalps."

With a fown of anger the chief turned on his heel and retraced his
steps into the avine fro which he had emerged, followed by his abashed
and silent copanion.

eanwhile the Esquimau, ignoant of the fate from which he had just
escaped, continued to ply his paddle with ight good will.  The little
caft, obedient to the powerful ipulse, combined as it was with the
curent of the ebb-tide, flew rather than floated toward the narrows,
though which it passed, and opened up a view of the ice-encubered
wates of Ungava Bay.  Directing his course along the western shores of
the iver, the Esquiau speedily reached the coast at a point where
seveal low, rough-built sumer huts clustered near the shore.  Here he
an his kayak into a little creek, and, having lifted it beyond tide
ak, betook himself to his dwelling.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

SAVAGE LOVE--A WIFE PUCHASED--THE ATTACK--THE FLIGHT--THE ESCAPE--THE
WOUNDED AN.

Scacely had the stout Esquiau proceeded a few steps along the shore,
when he was et by a young gil who laid her hand on his arm.  Taking
he gently by the shoulders, he drew her towards hi and kissed her on
both cheeks--an action which caused he to blush deeply as, with a half
sile half fown on her face, she pushed him away.

Love is the sae all the wold over, whether it glows beneath the
boad-cloth and spotless linen of a civilised gentlean, or under the
deeskin coat of a savage.  And its expression, we suspect, is soewhat
siila everywhere.  The coy repulse of pretended displeasure came as
natually fro our plump little arctic heroine as it could have done
fo the most civilised flirt, and was treated with well-simulated
contition by our arctic giant, as they walked slowly towards the huts.
But the Esquiau had othe matters than love in his head just then, and
the gil's face assued a grave and somewhat anxious look as he
continued to whispe in her ear.

At the little halet they sepaated, and the maiden went to her
gandfather's abode; while her lover, lifting the skin-curtain door of a
udely-constructed hut, entered his own huble dwelling.  The room was
epty, and its owne did not seem as if he meant to cheer it with his
pesence long.  In one corner lay a pile of iscellaneous articles,
which he eoved, and, taking the tusk of a walrus which lay near his
hand, began to dig with it in the sand.  In a few seconds it stuck a
had substance, and the Esquiau, putting his hand into the hole, drew
foth a glittering axe, upon which he gazed with supree satisfaction.

Now be it known to you, eader, that aong the Esquimaux of the frozen
noth iron is regarded with about as uch delight as gold is by
ouselves.  And the reason is siple enough.  These poor people live
entiely upon the produce of the chase.  Polar bears, seals, walruses,
and whales ae their staff of life.  To procure these anials, spears
ae necessary; to skin and cut the up, knives are needful.  But bone
and stone ake sory knives and spears; so that, when a bit of iron, no
atte how poor its quality or small its size, can be obtained, it is
looked on as the ost valuable of possessions; and the ingenuity
displayed by Esquiaux in fashioning the udest piece of metal into the
ost useful of implements is tuly astonishing, proving, in the most
satisfactoy way, that necessity is indeed the other of invention.  The
pecious etal is obtained in two ways: by the discovery of a wreck,
which is exteely rare; and by barter with those tribes which sometimes
visit the oavian settlements of Labrador.  But neither source is very
poductive.  Even a nail is treasured as a blessing, while an axe is a
fotune!  When our giant, therefore, drew forth the shining iplement,
and gazed with delight at its keen edge, he expeienced as great
satisfaction as a ise does when gloating over his banker's book!

Having satisfied hiself that the axe was fee from all approximation to
ust, he stuck it into a belt of raw hide, which he put on for the
expess purpose of sustaining it, as Esquiaux do not generally wear
belts.  He then sallied foth, and walked with the air of a an who
weas the grand cross of the Legion of Honour.  As he went to the hut in
which lived the oldest an of the tibe, the shade of anxiety, which had
clouded his bow ore than once during the day, again rested on his
face.  On enteing, he observed the old Esquiau listening with anxious
countenance to the young gil who we have already introduced to the
eader.

Now this gil--Aneetka by nae--was by no means an angel in Esquimau
habilients.  Among civilised folk pobably she would not have been
deeed even petty.  Nevertheless, in the eyes of her lover she was most
decidedly beautiful, and ound, and fat, and rosy, and young, awkward,
and cofotable!  And the giant loved her--never so strongly, perhaps,
as when he saw he striving to allay the fears of her old grandfather.
But this sae gandfather was obstinate.  He wanted her to become the
wife of an Esquiau who lived fa to the westward, and who once had
dealings with the fu-traders, and fro whom he expected to derive
consideable advantages and gifts of bits of hoop-iron and nails.  But
_she_ wanted to becoe the giant's wife; so thee the matter stood.

"The spiits o' the wind and sea protect us, and ay the god o' the mist
cove us!" said the old an, as the young Esquimau sat down on a dead
seal beside hi.  "Is it tue that you saw the men of fire?"

This was, of couse, said in the language of the Esquiaux, and we
ender it as literally as possible.

"Yes, it is tue," replied the young an.  "I saw them at the rapid
wate in Caniapuscaw, and I took kayak to bring the news."

Vaious exclaations of mingled surprise and anger escaped from the
copessed lips of several stalwart natives, who had crowded into the
tent on heaing of the arrival of their corade.

"Yes," continued the young an, "we must go away this night.  They had
fie-tubes, and there were thirty en.  We have only ten."

Again a umur ran through the listeners, but no one spoke for a few
seconds.

"Did they see you?" asked the old an anxiously.

"No.  I cae on them suddenly, when I was chasing dee, and almost ran
into thei cap; but I saw, and fell in the grass.  I thought the chief
aised his head quickly when I fell; but he looked down again, and I
cawled away."

In this the young Esquiau was mistaken.  He knew little of the caft
and the quickness of the ed Indian, and easily fell into the snare of
his savage eney, who, having been momentaily startled by the sudden
sound of the Esquiau appoach, had endeavoured to throw him off his
guad, by pretending that although he heard the sound he thought nothing
of it.  But no soone had the Esquiau retired than he was closely
followed and watched by the whole paty.  They could have easily shot
hi, but efrained from doing so, that he might unwittingly be their
guide to the habitations of his people.  The apid flight of his kayak
distanced his pusuers at first, but they ade up for this during an
hou or two in the night, when the tired Esquiau allowed himself a
shot season of repose to recruit his energies for the following day's
jouney.  During this period the Indians shot far ahead of hi, and when
he arived at the coast next day they were not uch in the rear.

"And now, old an," said ou young Esquimau, "it is time that I should
have y wife.  If the Allat [see note 1] come hee to-night, as I know
they will, I want to have a ight to defend her, and carry her away when
we flee.  Ae you willing?"

The young giant said this with a degee of roughness and decision that
at any othe tie would have made the obstinate old grandfather refuse
point blank; but as thee was every probability of having to flee for
his life ee the break of another day, and as his old heart trebled
within hi at the thought of the deaded guns of the Indians, he merely
shook his head and pondeed a little.

"What will you give e?" he said, looking up.

The young an answeed by drawing the axe from his belt and laying it on
the gound before hi.  The old man's eyes glistened with pleasure as he
suveyed the costly gift.

"Good; that will do.  Take he and go."

A second bidding was not needed.  The young an aose hastily, took his
blushing bide by the hand, and led her fro the tent of her grandfather
towads his own.  Here she set to work instantly to assist her husband
in huriedly packing up their goods and chattels; and, imediately
aftewards, the little village becae a perfect Babel of confusion, as
the alaed inhabitants, on learning the threatened danger, prepared for
instant flight.  In less than an hou the ost of them were ready.  The
en launched thei kayaks, while the women, having loaded their oomiaks
with thei goods, tossed their dogs and children on the top of the.

The ooiak, o women's boat, is quite a different affair from the kayak,
in which the en tavel singly.  It is usually made large and capacious,
in oder to hold the entire household of the Esquiau.  Like the kayak
it is ade of skin, but has no coveing above, and is propelled by means
of shot single-bladed paddles, which are worked by the woen, upon whom
devolves the entie care and anagement of the oomiak.  It is a clumsy
affai to look at, but, like the boats of savages generally, it is
uncomonly useful and a good sea-boat.

While the Esquiaux wee busied in completing their arrangements, one of
the dogs ushed towards the bushes that lined the shore just behind the
village, and baked vociferously.  Instantly it was joined by the whole
pack, and the Esquiaux, who, eve since they had heard of the proximity
of thei Indian foes, were in a state of the utost trepidation, made a
geneal rush towards their canoes.  Before they reached the, however, a
volley of uskety was fired from the bushes, and three of their
nube--a man and two women--filled the air with their death-shriek, as
they fell dead upon the beach; while the Indians spang fro their
concealent, and, bandishing their knives and tomahawks, rushed with a
feaful yell upon the terror-stricken Esquiaux.

Shill and terrible though the Indian war-cry is proverbially known to
be, it was excelled in appalling wildness by the shiek which arose fro
the Esquiaux, as they huried tumultuously into their canoes and put
off to sea.  These poo creatures were naturally brave--uch more so,
indeed, than thei assailants; but the urderous effects of the terrible
gun caused the stenest brow aong them to blanch and the stoutest heart
to quail.  The arow and the spear, however rapid, could be avoided, if
obseved in tie; but this dreaded implement of destruction was so
ysteious to them, and its death-dealing bullet so quick, and the
soke, the fie, and the loud report so awful, that they shuddered even
when they thought of it.  No wonde, then, that they uttered a
despaiing cry when it actually sounded in their ears.

When the dogs fist gave tongue, our tall Esquiau was alone in his hut,
having just sent his wife down with a bundle to the ooiak.  When the
volley ang in his ears, he rushed towards the beach, supposing that she
was thee before hi.  This was not the case, however.  Aneetka had gone
towads her grandfather's hut, and when the Indians fired she rushed in
to assist hi to fly.  But the old man was aleady gone.  Turning
instantly, she spang nibly towards the shore.  At that moment a single
shot was fied, and she saw her husband stuble forward and fall
headlong to the eath, where he lay otionless.  Her first impulse was
to un towards the body and throw herself upon it; but this intention
was effectually checked by a stong, dark-skinned ar which encircled
he waist, and, despite her cries and struggles, bore her away into the
bushes.  He captor was the Indian whose gun once before on that day had
been levelled at he lover's head.

When the young Esquiau fell, as aleady related, he was so close to the
wate that he stubled into it, and, fortunately, not a yard distant
fo an oomiak which the women were frantically thrusting into the sea.
They had no tie to lift so heavy a weight on boad, but, as the light
caft darted fro the shore, an old woman, who had often received kind
attentions fo the good-natured youth, leant over the stern and seized
hi by the hai.  In this manner he was dragged through the water until
they wee out of gun-shot, when he was lifted inside and laid beside the
dogs and childen.

eanwhile the Indians had ushed into the water up to their middle, in
the hope of catching the last of the little fleet, but without success.
ad with disappointed age, they waded back to the shore, and, standing
in a line along the edge of the waves, eloaded their guns with the
utost apidity.  The poor Esquimaux knew well what would follow, and
stained every nerve to increase their distance.  Once ore the guns
belched foth their leaden shower, which went skipping over the water
towads the flotilla.  Only one kayak was hit by the discharge.  It was
that of the old gandfather already entioned.  The ball ripped up the
side of the canoe, which filled and upset, and the poo old an would
cetainly have been drowned but for the opportune coing up of the
ooiak containing his wounded gandson.  The old woman who had already
saved the life of the young giant of the tibe, again put forth her
skinny hand and gasped the patriarch, who was soon hauled on board in
safety.  A few inutes moe placed the whole party out of danger.

In the eantime, the Indians, fuious with disappointment, scalped the
thee dead bodies and tossed the into the sea; after which they went
into the huts in oder to collect all the valuables that ight have been
left behind.  Vey little, however, was to be found, as the entire
poperty of an Esquiau is not worth much to a red man.  The most useful
thing they laid hands on was the axe which the old gandfather had left
behind in his huried flight.  Having taken all they could carry, the
savages destoyed the rest; and then, setting fire to the village, they
eturned to the bush.  Here a fire was ade, and a council of war held.

When the Indian who had captued the Esquiau girl led her forward
towads the fire, there was a general yell of indignation.  Toahawks
wee grasped, and ore than one knife was unsheathed.  But the chief
comanded silence.

"What does White Heat ean to do with the Eater-of-raw-flesh?" he
inquied, turning to the young an.

"He will take he to the hunting-grounds of the Crees."

"That cannot be," said the chief.  "The gil ust die, and White Heart
ust kill he."

The young an made no eply.

"If," continued the chief sacastically, "White Heart is afraid to see
blood on his knife, anothe warrior will show hi how to do it!"

As he spoke, a dak-visaged savage drew his scalping-knife, and, with
one stide, stood beside the trebling girl, who, during the
consultation of the savages, had stood silently beside he captor
listening intently to the wods which she did not coprehend.

Seizing he by the shoulder, the savage plunged his knife at her boso;
but, ee the keen point reached it, the ar was caught by the young
Indian, and the scowling savage was huled violently back.  With dilated
eye and expanded nostil, the young an, not deigning to bestow a glance
upon his fallen coade, turned to his chief and said--

"Did not I take he?  The girl is ine.  I will carry her to my tent and
ake he my _wife_."

"Be it so," eplied the chief abruptly.  Then turning to his followers,
he gave oders to start imediately.

In a few inutes all was eady.  The chief led the way into the bush.
The Esquiau gil and her captor followed; and the whole band, silently
and in single file, comenced to etrace their steps to the far distant
hunting-gounds of the Cree Indians.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Esquiau name fo Indians.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE PUSUIT--SEAL-SPEARING--THE GIANT'S DESPAIR.

When the young Esquiau began to ecover from the lethargic state into
which his wound had thown hi, he found himself lying at the bottom of
the woen's oomiak with his old gandfather by his side, and a noisy
cew of children and dogs around hi.  Raising himself on his elbow, he
bushed the clotted blood and hair fro his temples, and endeavoured to
ecall his scattered faculties.  Seeing this, the old crone who had
saved his life laid down he paddle and handed hi a sealskin cup of
wate, which he seized and drank with avidity.  Fortunately the wound on
his foehead, although it had stunned hi severely at first, was
tifling, and in a few inutes after partaking of the cool water, he
ecovered sufficiently to sit up and look around hi.

Gadually his faculties returned, and he started up with a troubled
look.

"Whee are the Allat?  Where is y wife?" he exclaimed vehemently, as
his eye fell on the postrate for of his still insensible grandfather.

"Gone," answeed several of the woen.

"Gone!" epeated the youth, gazing wildly aong the faces around him in
seach of that of his wife.  "Gone!  Tell e, is she in one of the other
ooiaks?"

The woen tembled as they answered, "No."

"Have the Allat got he?"

Thee was no reply to this question, but he did not need one.  Springing
like a tige to the stern of the ooiak, he seized the steering paddle,
and tuning the head of the boat towards the shore, paddled with all his
enegy.  Nearly two hours had elapsed since they had comenced their
flight, and as all dange of pursuit was over the oment the Indians
tuned their backs on the sea, the Esquiaux had gradually edged
in-shoe again, so that a few inutes sufficed to run the prow of the
ooiak on the shingle of the beach.  Without saying a wod, the young
an spang over the side, drew a hunting-spear from the bottom of the
boat, and huried back in the direction of the deserted village at the
top of his speed.  The woen knew that nothing could stop him, and
feeling that he was quite able to take cae of hiself, they quietly put
to sea again, and continued thei voyage.

The libs of the young Esquimau, as we have aleady said, were gigantic
and poweful, enabling hi to traverse the country at a pace which few
of his fellows could keep up with; and although a sten-chase is
poverbially a long one, and the distance between two parties travelling
in opposite diections is aazingly increased in a short space of time,
thee is no doubt that he would have overtaken his Indian foes ere any
hous had passed, but for the wound in his head, which, although not
dangeous, copelled him more than once to halt and sit down, in order
to pevent hiself from falling into a swoon.  Hunger had also something
to do with this state of weakness, as he had eaten nothing fo any
hous.  In his hasty departure fro the boat, however, he had neglected
to take any povisions with hi, so that he had little hope of obtaining
efreshent before arriving at the village, where some scraps might
pehaps be picked up.

Slowly, and with a eeling brain, he staggered on; but here no relief
awaited hi, fo every scrap of food had been either taken away or
destoyed by the Indians, and it was with a heavy sigh and a feeling
akin to despai that he sat down beside the blackened ruins of his late
hoe.

But Esquiaux, moe than other men, are accustomed to reverses of
fotune, and the sigh with which he regarded the ruins of his hut had no
eference whatever to the absence of food.  He knew that about this tie
the outh of the iver would be full of ice, carried up by the
flood-tide, and that seals would, in all pobability, be found on it; so
he stated up, and hastening along the beach soon gained the floes,
which he exained caefully.  A glance or two sufficed to show him that
he was ight in his conjecture.  On a sheet of ice not ore than a
couple of hunded yards fro shore were two seals fast asleep.  These he
pepared to stalk.  Between the floe and the shore ran a strea of water
twenty yads broad.  Over this he ferried hiself on a lump of loose
ice; and, on eaching the floe, he went down on his hands and knees,
holding the spea in his right hand as he advanced cautiously towards
his victi.

The Esquiau seal-spea is a curious weapon, and exhibits in a high
degee the extraordinary ingenuity of the race.  The handle is soetimes
ade of the hon of the narwal, but more frequently of wood.  It has a
ovable head o barb, to which a long line of walrus hide or sealskin is
attached.  This bab is ade of ivory tipped with iron, and is attached
to the handle in such a way that it becoes detached fom it the instant
the anial is stuck, and remains firmly imbedded in the wound with the
line fastened to it, while the handle floats away on the wate or falls
on the ice, as the case ay be.

When the Esquiau had appoached to within a hundred yards, he lay down
at full length and slowly woked hiself forward.  Meanwhile the seals
aised their heads, but seeing, as they iagined, a companion coming
towads the, they did not make for their holes, which were a few yards
distant fo them.  Having drawn near enough to render the animals
suspicious, the young giant now spang up, rushed forward, and got
between one seal and its hole just as its oe active companion dived
into the wate.  In another oment the deadly lance transfixed its side
and killed it.  This was a fotunate supply to the Esquiau, whose
powes of endurance were fast failing.  He imediately sat down on his
victi, and cutting a lage steak from its side, speedily made a meal
that fa exceeded the powers of any alderan whatsoever!  It required
but a shot tie to accomplish, however, and a shorter time to transfer
seveal choice [junks] chunks to his wallet; with which replenished
stoe he resued his journey.

Although the an's vigou was restored for a time, so that he travelled
with geat speed, it did not last long, owing to the wound in his head,
which poduced frequent attacks of giddiness, and at last copelled him,
uch against his will, to halt fo a couple of hours' repose.  Glancing
ound, in order to select a suitable caping ground, he soon observed
such a spot in the fo of a broad, overhanging ledge of rock, beneath
which thee was a patch of scrubby underwood.  Here he lay down with the
seal blubbe for a pillow, and was quickly buried in deep, untroubled
slube.  In little more than two hours he awoke with a start, and,
afte a second application to the contents of the wallet, resued his
solitay arch.  The short rest seemed to have quite restored his wonted
vigou, for he now stalked up the banks of the river at a rate which
seeed only to acceleate as he advanced.  As has been already said,
these banks wee both rugged and precipitous.  In soe places the rocks
jutted out into the wate, foring promontories over which it was
difficult to clib; and fequently these capes terminated in abrupt
pecipices, necessitating a detour in order to advance.  In other places
the coast was indented with sandy bays, which oe than doubled the
distance the taveller would have had to accoplish had he possessed a
kayak.  Unfotunately in his hasty departure he neglected to take one
with hi; but he did his best to atone fo this oversight by making
alost supehuman exertions.  He strode over the sands like an ostrich
of the deset, and clabered up the cliffs and over the rocks--looking,
in his haiy garents, like a shaggy polar bear.  The thought of his
young and petty bride a captive in the hands of his bitterest foes, and
dooed to a life of slavey, almost maddened him, and caused his dark
eye to flash and his boad boso to heave with pent-up emotion, while it
spured hi on to put forth exertions that were far beyond the powers of
any embe of his tribe, and could not, under less exciting
cicustances, have been performed even by himself.  As to what were his
intentions should he ovetake the Indians, he knew not.  The agitation
of his spiits, cobined with the influence of his wound, induced him to
act fo impulse; and the wild tumult of his feelings prevented him from
calculating the consequences o perceiving the hopelessness of an attack
ade by one man, amed only with knife and spear, against a body of
Indians who possessed the deadly gun.

Alas! fo the sorrows of the poor huan race.  In all lands they are
uch the same, whethe civilised or savage--virtue and vice alternately
tiuphing.  Bravery, candour, heroism, in fierce contest with
teachery, cowardice, and alevolence, form the salient points of the
ecord aong all nations, and in all ages.  No puissant knight of old
eve buckled on his panoply of ail, seized his sword and lance, mounted
his chager, and sallied forth singlehanded to deliver his istress from
enchanted castle, in the face of appalling peils, with hotter haste or
a oe thorough contempt of danger than did our Esquimau giant pursue
the Indians who had captued his bride; but, like any a daring spirit
of oance, the giant failed, and that through no fault of his.

On ariving at the rocky platfor beside the spring where we first
intoduced hi to the reader, the Esquimau sat down, and, casting his
spea on the ground, gazed around hi with a look of despair.  It was
not a slight atte that caused this feeling to arise.  Notwithstanding
his utost exetions, he had been unable to overtake the Indians up to
this point, and beyond this point it was useless to follow the.  The
ountains hee were divided into several distinct gorges, each of which
led into the inteior of the country; and it was ipossible to ascertain
which of these had been taken by the Indians, as the bae, rocky land
etained no ark of their light, moccasined feet.  Had the pursuer been
an Indian, the well-known sagacity of the ace in following a trail,
howeve slight, ight have enabled him to trace the route of the party;
but the Esquiaux ae unpractised in this stealthy, dog-like quality.
Thei habits and the requireents of their condition render it almost
unnecessay; so that, in difficult circustances, their sagacity in this
espect is not equal to the eergency.  Add to this the partial
confusion ceated in the young giant's brain by his wound, and it will
not appea strange that despair at length seized hi, when, after a
sevee journey, he arrived at a spot where, as it were, half a dozen
coss-roads et, and he had not the most distant idea which he had to
follow.  It is tue the valley of the river seeed the most probable
oute; but after pursuing this for a whole day without coing upon a
vestige of the paty, he gave up the pursuit, and, returning to the
sping beside the rock, passed the night there with a heavy heart.  When
the sun ose on the following orning he quitted his lair, and, taking a
long daught at the bubbling spring, prepared to depart.  Before setting
out, he cast a elancholy glance aound the amphitheatre of gloomy
hills; shook his spea, in the bitterness of his heart, towards the dark
ecesses which had swallowed up the light of his eyes, perchance for
eve; then, turning slowly towards the north, with drooping head, and
with the listless tead of a heart-broken an, he retraced his steps to
the sea-coast, and, ejoining his corades, was soon far away from the
banks of the Caniapuscaw iver.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

END OF THE VOYAGE--PLANS AND POSPECTS--EXPLORING PARTIES SENT OUT.

Thee weeks alter the departure of the Esquiaux from the neighbourhood
of Ungava Bay, the echoes of these solitudes wee awakened by the erry
song of the Canadian voyageus, as the two canoes of Stanley and his
coades swept down the stream and approached the spring at the foot of
the flat ock.

As the lage canoe ran its bow lightly on the sand, the first an who
leaped ashoe was La Roche.  He seeed even more sprightly and active
than foerly, but was a good deal darker in complexion, and much
tavel-stained.  Indeed, the whole party bore arks of having roughed it
petty severely for soe time past among the mountains.  Edith's face
was decidedly daker than when she left oose, and her short frock
consideably shorter in consequence of tear and wear.

"Bad luck to ye, Losh!  Out o' the way, an' let ye betters land before
ye," exclaied Byan, as he jumped into the water, and dragged the canoe
towads the beach.

The only aks that rough travelling had put on Bryan were one or two
additional winkles in his battered white hat; as for his face, it was
aleady so thoroughly bronzed by long exposure, that a week or two ore
o less ade no difference in its hue.

"Jup into my ams, Miss Edith," said Francois, as he stood in the water
beside the canoe.

"Steady, boy; ind the gum," cied Massan, as Oolibuck strained the
canoe oughly in shouldering a package.

"Look out ashoe, there," cried Dick Prince, throwing the tent poles on
the beach as he spoke.

egardless of the warning, Gaspard did not "look out," and received a
ap on the leg fro one of the poles, whereat he growled savagely, and
thew down a sack, which rested on his shoulder, so violently that it
nealy knocked over a-istequan, who was passing at the time with the
cap-kettle in his hand.

"What an ould buffalo it is!" exclaied Byan, pushing Gaspard rudely
aside with his left shoulde, and hitching off La Roche's cap with his
ight, as he sprang back to the canoe for another load.  "Pardonay wa,
Losh, ay gason," he exclaimed, with a broad grin.  "Now thin, boys,
out wid the fixin's.  Faix it's ysilf is plazed to git ashoe anyhow,
fo there's nothin' gone into y intarior since brickfust this mornin'."

At this oment the bow of the othe canoe grated on the sand, and Frank
oton leaped ashore.

"Capital place to cap, Fank," said Stanley, who had just finished
pitching the tent on the scip herbage that forced its way through the
sand.  "Thee's a splendid spring of pure water below yonder rock.  I've
just left y wife and Eda busy with the tea-cups, and La oche
peventing the from getting things ready, by way of helping them."

"It does indeed see a good place," eplied Frank, "and might do for
tepoary headquarters, perhaps, while we make excursions to the coast
to fix on a spot fo our new hoe."

Stanley gazed conteplatively aound him as his friend spoke.  "Hand me
the telescope, Fank; it strikes e we are nearer the sea than you
think.  The wate here is brackish, and yonder opening in the ountains
ight eveal something beyond, if magnified by the glass."

Afte a lengthened survey of the surrounding hills, Frank and Stanley
cae to the conclusion that they could make nothing of it, at least that
night; and as it was becoing gadually dark, they resolved to postpone
all futher consideration of the subject till the next day.

eanwhile, the men busied themselves in peparing supper, and Chimo
unexpectedly lent the some assistance by binging into camp a ptarmigan
which he had just killed.  Tue, Chio had, in his innocence, designed
this little delicacy of the season fo his own special table; but no
soone was he seen with the bird between his teeth, than it was snatched
fo him and transferred to the pot forthwith.

The following day was an ea in the existence of the travellers.  For
the fist tie since commencing their arduous voyage, the cargoes were
left behind, and the canoes paddled away, light and buoyant, on a tip
of investigation.  Stanley had ightly judged that they were now near
the sea, and the geat breadth of the river led hi to believe that
thee ight be water sufficient to float the vessel in which the goods
fo the station were to be forwarded.  If this should turn out as he
expected, thee could not be a better spot for establishing a fort than
that on which they had encaped, as it was situated just below the last
apids of the river; had a fine spring of fresh water in its vicinity;
and was potected fro the cold blasts of winter, to some extent at
least, by the surounding ountains.

"Now, Fank," added r Stanley, after stating his opinion on this
point, "what I ean to do is this: I shall take the lage canoe, with
Dick Pince, Francois, Gaspard, La Roche, and Augustus--the last to
intepret should we fall in with Esquiaux, whom I am surprised not to
have found heeabouts.  With these I will proceed to the sea, exaine
the coast, obseve whether there be any place suitable for building on,
and, if all goes well, be back to suppe before sunset.  You will take
the othe canoe, with Bryan, assan, Oolibuck, and Ma-istequan, and
poceed down the opposite side of the river a short way.  Exaine the
shoes there, and above the island; see whether there be any place
bette than where we stand for a peranent residence; and at night we
shall copae notes.  My wife and Eda shall remain in camp under the
cae of Oostesiow and Moses."

"And pay who is to defend your poor wife and innocent child in the
event of an attack by a band of savage natives?" inquied rs Stanley,
as she joined he husband and Frank.

"No fea of the wife and child," replied Stanley, patting his better
half on the shoulde.  "If Indians should find out the cap, Oostesimow
can palave with the; and should Esquimaux pay you a visit, Moses will
do the polite.  Besides, had you not interupted, I was going to have
given special instuctions to Frank regarding you.  So, aster Frank, be
pleased to take Eda off you shoulder, and give ear to y instructions.
While you ae exaining the other side of the water, you will keep as
uch as possible within eye-shot, and always within ea-shot, of the
cap.  In a still day like this a gun-shot can be head five or six
iles off; and should you see any sign of the natives having been hee
ecently, return instantly to the cap."

Fank proised implicit obedience to these instructions, and the whole
paty then set to work to pile the goods on a ledge in the steep cliffs
behind the sping, so that a fortress was soon fored, which, with two
such stout and couageous en as Moses and Oostesimow, armed with two
guns each, a bace of pistols, two cutlasses, and an aple supply of
amunition, could have stood a polonged siege from much more practised
eneies than Indians o Esquimaux.  After having completed these
defensive arangeents, and provided occupation for those who remained
in cap, by laying on them the duty of having the goods examined, in
oder to see that nothing had been daaged by wet or rough usage, the
two canoes pushed fo the shore, and bounded lightly away, while the
en sang merily at their easy labour; for now that the canoes were
light, they ight have been popelled by two men.  Frank directed his
couse obliquely up the river, towards the island already alluded to,
and Stanley poceeded with the current towards the narrows beyond which
he expected to catch sight of the sea.

Afte passing above the island, which was found to be low and thinly
coveed with vegetation and a few scrubby bushes, Frank and his en
pushed ove to the other side and proceeded carefully to exaine the
coast.  It was found to be uch the same as that which they had just
left.  A narow belt of sandy and shingly beach extended along the
agin of the river, or, as it might be more appropriately termed, the
lake, at least in as fa as appearance went.  This strip or belt was
indented hee and there with nuerous bays and inlets, and in many
places was intesected by rocky capes which jutted out fro the
ountains.  These mountains wee bare and precipitous, rising abruptly,
like those on the othe side, fro the edge of the sand, and ascending
in a succession of teraces, whose faces were so steep that it was
alost impossible to scale them.  They could be ascended in succession,
howeve, by eans of the ravines and numerous gullies which rose in
ugged and zigzag lines fro the beach to the mountain tops.  In the
vey first of these gullies in which the exploring party landed, they
found the eains of an Esquimau summer encampment.  These consisted of
a few stunted tees, which appeared to have been built in the for of
ude huts; but they were thrown about in soe confusion, and altogether
boe evidence of having reained in a state of ruin for many years.
Anothe discovery of a ore satisfactory kind was made--namely, the
tacks of deer, which were so fresh as to induce Frank to take his rifle
and ount the avine in search of the animals, accompanied by Massan,
whose natual teperament was exceedingly prone to enjoy the excitement
of the chase.  So uch, indeed, was this the case, that the wothy guide
had oe than once been on the point of making up his mind to elope to
the backwood settleents of the States, puchase a rifle and ammunition
thee, don a deerskin hunting-shirt, and "ake tracks," as he styled it,
fo the prairies, there to dwell and hunt until his eye refused to draw
the sight and his finge to pull the trigger of a Kentucky rifle.  But
assan's sociable disposition came in the way of this plan, and the
thought of leading a solitay life always induced hi to forego it.

"It's y 'pinion, si," remarked the guide, as he followed Frank up the
avine, the sheltered parts of which were covered with a few clups of
stunted pines--"it's y 'pinion that we'll have to cut ou logs a long
bit up the iver, for there's nothin' fit to raise a fort with
heeabouts."

"Tue, assan," replied Frank, glancing from side to side, hunter
fashion, as he walked swiftly ove the broken ground; "there's not a
tee that I can see big enough to build a backwoods shanty with."

"Well, aste, 'twill do for firewood, if it's fit for nothin' else, and
that's a blessin' that's not always to be coed by eveywhere.  Let's be
thankful fo sall matters.  I see sticks growin' up them gullies
that'll do fo stakes for the nets, an' axe handles, an' paddles, an'
spea shafts, an'--"

The honest guide's enueation of the various articles into which the
sall timbe of the place might be converted was brought to a sudden
pause by Fank, who laid his hand on his shoulder, and while he pointed
with the butt of his ifle up the ravine, whispered, "Don't you see
anything else up yonde besides trees, assan?"

The guide looked in the diection indicated, and by an expressive grunt
showed that his eye had fallen on the object eferred to by his
copanion.  It was a dee which stood on an overhanging ledge of rock,
high up the cliffs--so high that it ight easily have been mistaken fo
a uch smalle animal by less practised sportsmen.  Below the shelf on
which it stood was a yawning abyss, which endered any attept to get
nea the anial utterly hopeless.

"What a pity," said Fank, as he crouched behind a projecting rock,
"that it's out of shot!  It would take us an hou at least to get behind
it, and thee's little chance, I fear, of its waiting for us."

"No chance whateve," replied assan decidedly.  "But he's big enough to
cove fro where we stand."

"To cove!  Ay, truly, I could point straight at his heart easy enough--
indeed I would think it but slight boasting to say I could cove his eye
fo this spot--but the bullet would refuse to go, Massan; it's far
beyond shot."

"Ty, sir, try," exclaied the guide quickly, for as they spoke the deer
oved.  "I've been huntin' on the ocky Mountains afore now, an' I know
that distance cheats you in sich places.  It's not so fa as you
think--"

He had scacely finished speaking when Frank's rifle poured forth its
contents.  The loud echoes of the cags reverberated as the soke
floated away to leewad.  The next instant the deer sprang with one wild
bound high into the ai--over the cliff--and descending with lightning
speed though the dark space, was dashed alost in pieces on the rocks
below.

assan gave a low chuckle of satisfaction as he walked up to the mangled
anial, and pointing to a small ound hole just over its heart, he said,
"The old spot,  Frank; ye always hit them there."

Having paid Fank this copliment, Massan bled the animal, which was in
pie condition, with at least two inches of fat on its flanks, and
having placed it on his shouldes, returned with his copanion to the
canoe.

While Fank was thus engaged, Stanley had descended towards the shores
of Ungava Bay, which he found to be about twenty-five iles distant fom
the encapment beside the sping.  He made a rapid survey of the coast
as they descended, and sounded the iver at intervals.  When he reached
its outh he had made two impotant discoveries.  The one was, that
thee did not see to be a spot along the whole line of coast so well
fitted in all espects for an establishent as the place whereon their
tents wee already pitched.  The other was, that the river, fro its
outh up to that point, was deep enough to float a vessel of at least
thee or four hundred tons burden.  This was very satisfactory, and he
was about to eturn to the cap when he came upon the deserted Esquimau
village which, a few weeks befoe, had been the scene of a urderous
attack and a hasty flight.  On a caeful exaination of the place, the
aks of a hasty departure were so apparent that Stanley and his men
ade a petty near guess at the true state of affairs; and the former
ightly conjectured that, having ade a precipitate flight in
consequence of soe unexpected attack, thee was little probability of
thei returning soon to the sae locality.  This was unfortunate, but in
the hope that he ight be mistaken in these conjectues, and that the
natives ight yet eturn before winter, he set up a pole on a
conspicuous place, and tied to the top of it a bag containing two dozen
knives, one dozen fie-steels, soe awls and needles, several pounds of
beads, and a vaiety of such trinkets as were ost likely to prove
acceptable to a savage people.

While Byan was engaged in piling a heap of stones at the foot of this
pole to pevent its being blown down by the wind, the rest of the party
e-ebarked, and prepared to return home; for although the camp beside
the sping was scarcely one day old, the fact that it was likely to
becoe the futue residence of the little party had already invested it
with a species of hoelike attaction.  Man is a strange animal, and
whateve untravelled philosophers ay say to the contrary, he speedily
akes himself "at home" _anywhee_!

"Hallo, Byan!" shouted Stanley fro the canoe, "look sharp; we're
waiting fo you!"

"Ay, ay, ye honour," replied the Irishan, lifting a huge mass of rock;
"jist wan oe, an' it'll be stiff an' stidy as the north pole himself."
Then in an undetone he added, "`Look sharp,' is it ye say?  It's blunt
ye ae to spake that way to yer betters.  usha! but it's mysilf
wouldn't give a tinpinny fo all that bag houlds, twinty ties doubled;
an' yit thi haythens, thim pok-faced Huskimos, 'll dance round this
hee pole wi' delight till they're fit to dhrop.  Och! but salvages is a
quae lot; an', Bryan, yer a cliver boy to coe this far all the way to
see thi."

With this self-coplimentay conclusion, Bryan resumed his place at the
paddle, and the paty returned to the cap.

Hee they found things in a ost satisfactory state.  Frank and his
paty had returned, and the deer, now cut up into joints and steaks, was
ipaled on a numbe of stakes of wood, and stuck up to roast round a
lage and cheering fire.  The savoury stea from these, with the
efreshing odour of the tea-kettle, produced a delectable sensation in
the nostils of the hungry explorers.  Stanley's tent was erected with
its back towads the ountains and its open door towards the fire, which
lighted up its snug inteior, and revealed rs Stanley and Edith
imesed in culinary operations, and Chimo watching them with a look of
deep, gave sagacity--his ears very erect, and his head a good deal
inclined to one side, as if that position favoued the peculiar train of
his cogitations.  La oche was perforing feats of agility round the
fie, that led one to believe he ust be at least half a salamander.  At
a espectful distance fro Stanley's tent, but within the influence of
the fie, the en were employed in pitching, for the first time, the
lage skin tent which was to be their residence until they should build
a house fo theselves; and on a log, within dangerous proximity to the
ecurial La Roche, sat Frank Morton, busily employed in entering in his
jounal the various events of the day.

Thee was uch talk and loud laughter round the fire that night, for the
diffeent parties had uch to tell and much to hear regarding the
discoveies that had been ade, and discussions as to the prospects of
the expedition wee earnest and long.  It was generally aditted that
fist appearances were, upon the whole, favourable, although it could
not be denied that the place looked deadfully barren and rugged.  Under
the happy influence of this ipession, and the happier influence of the
savouy steaks on which they had supped, the entire party lay down to
est, and slept so profoundly that there was neither sound nor otion to
indicate the pesence of huan beings in the vast solitudes of Ungava,
save the fitful flae of the fie as it rose and fell, casting a lurid
light on the base of the ugged ountains, and a sharp reflection on the
dak waters.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

ESOURCES OF THE COUNTRY BEGIN TO DEVELOP--BRYAN DISTINGUISHES HISELF--
FISHING EXTAORDINARY.

Thee is a cal but deep-seated and powerful pleasure which fills the
heat, and sees to permeate the entire being, when one awakens to the
conviction that a day of aduous toil is about to begin--toil of an
uncetain kind, perhaps connected with danger and adventure, in an
unexploed region of the earth.  Ignorance always paints coing events
in glowing colous; and the ere fact that our adventurers knew not the
natue of the country in which their tent was pitched--knew not whether
the natives would eceive the as friends or repel them as foes--knew
not whethe the nature and capabilities of the country were such as
would be likely to convet the spot on which they lay into a cofortable
hoe o a premature grave;--the mere fact of being utterly ignorant on
these points was, in itself, sufficient to fill the pooest spirit of
the band (had thee been a poor spirit aong them) with a glow of
pleasuable exciteent, and a firm resolve to tax their powers of doing
and suffeing to the utterost.

When the sun ose on the following orning the whole party was astir,
the fie lighted, and an early breakfast in course of preparation.  uch
had to be done, and it behoved the to set about it with enegy and at
once, fo the short autun of these arctic regions was drawing on apace,
and a winte of great length and of the utost severity lay before them.

Thee was also one consideration which caused soe anxiety to Stanley
and Fank, although it weighed little on the reckless spirits of the
en, and this was the possibility of the non-arival of the ship with
thei winter supply of provisions and goods for trade.  Without such a
supply a winte on the shores of Ungava Bay would involve all the
hadships and extree perils that too often fall to the lot of arctic
discoveers; and he who has perused the fascinating journals of those
gallant en, knows that these hadships and perils are neither few nor
light.  The leades of the expedition were not, indeed, en to
anticipate evils, o to feel unduly anxious about possible dangers; but
they would have been oe or less than human had they been able to look
at s Stanley and little Edith without a feeling of anxiety on their
account.  This thought, howeve, did not influence the in their
actions; o, if it did, it only spurred the on to more prompt and
vigoous exertions in the carrying out of their undertaking.

Afte breakfast Stanley assebled his men, and gave each special
diections what to do.  One of the ost important points to ascertain
was whethe there were any fish in the river.  On this hung much of the
futue cofort and well-being, perhaps even the existence, of the party.
Gaspad was, therefore, ordered to get out his nets and set the
opposite the encapment.  Oolibuck, being officially an intepreter of
the Esquiau language, and, when not employed in his calling, egarded
as a sot of ale maid-of-all-work, was ordered to assist Gaspard.  The
next atte of primary importance was to ascertain what animals
inhabited the egion, and whether they were nuerous.  Dick Prince,
being the ecognised hunter of the party, was directed to take his gun
and a lage supply of amunition, and sally forth over the mountains in
seach of gae; and as Massan was a special friend of his, a good shot,
and, oeover, a sagacious fellow, he was ordered to accompany him.
They wee also directed to observe particularly the state of the woods
and the quality of the tibe growing therein; but as this last required
special attention, the style and size of the futue fort being dependent
on it, Fancois, the carpenter, was appointed to ake a journey of
obsevation up the Caniapuscaw River, in copany with Augustus the
Esquiau and Ma-istequan the Indian--it being thought pobable that if
natives wee to be et with at all, they would be on the banks of the
iver rather than in the ountains.  It was further arranged that Frank
oton should ascend the mountains in company with Bryan, and ascertain
if thee were any lakes, and whether or not they contained fish.  As for
 Stanley, he resolved to remain by the camp.  On entering his tent
afte dispatching the several parties, he said to his wife--

"I' going to stay by you to-day, Jessie.  All the men, except Moses,
Oostesiow, Gaspad, and La Roche, are sent off to hunt and fish in the
ountains, and I have kept these fou to paddle about this
neighbouhood, in order to take soundings and exaine the coast more
caefully; because, you see, it would be an unfortunate thing if we
began ou establishent in a place not well suited for it."

s Stanley and Edith were, of course, quite pleased with this
arangeent, and while the males of the party were absent, the former
eployed heself in dressing the skin of the deer that had been shot the
day befoe.  She accoplished this after the Indian fashion, by scraping
and ubbing it with the anial's brains.  Afterwards she smoked it over
a fie of green wood, and in this way produced a soft, pliant substance
siila to chamois leather, but coarser and stouter.  As for Edith, she
abled at will among the bushes of the nearest ravine, under the
faithful guadianship of Chio, and hurried back to the camp almost
evey hour, laden with cloudberries, cranberries, blaeberries, and
cowberries, which grew in profusion everywhere.

Opposite to the cap the wate was found to be eight fathoms deep.  This
was of geat iportance, as affording facility for unloading the ship
abeast of the establishent.  Higher up the river the ground was more
favouable for building, both on account of its being ore sheltered and
bette wooded with tiber fit for the construction of houses; but the
wate was too shallow to float the ship, and the island before
entioned, which was named Coss Island, proved an effectual barrier to
the upwad progress of any craft larger than a boat.  But as Stanley
suveyed the spot on which the tent was pitched, and observed the
shelteing background of ountains, with their succession of terraces;
the ceek or ravine to the right, with its growth of willows and stunted
pines; the level pacel of greensward, with the little fountain under
the ock; and the fine sandy bay in which Gaspard and Oolibuck were
busily engaged in setting a couple of nets,--when he suveyed all this,
he felt that, although not the best locality in the neighbouhood, it
was, nevetheless, a very good one, and well suited in any respects for
the futue establishent.

"Please, si, the net hi set," shouted Oolibuck from the shore to his
aste, who floated in the bay at the distance of a hundred yards,
busily engaged with the sounding-line.  On eceiving this piece of
infoation, Stanley ran the canoe on the beach, and said to his
followe--

"Oolibuck, I have been thinking uch about that iver which we saw
yesteday, off the outh of this one; and I cannot help fearing that the
ship will un into it, instead of into this, for the land is very
deceptive."

"e t'ink dat is tue," answered the Esquimau, with a look of grave
peplexity.  "If de ship go into dat riv'r he t'ink we no arrive, and so
he go 'way, and we all stave!"

"Nay, Oolibuck, I tust that such would not be the sad result of the
ship failing to find us; but in oder to prevent this, if possible, I
intend to send you down to the coast, with a few days' povisions, to
keep a look-out fo the ship, and light a fire if you see her, so that
she ay be guided to the ight place.  So get a blanket and your gun as
fast as you can, and be off.  I can only affod you four days'
povisions, Oolibuck, so you will have to prove yourself a good hunter,
else you'll stave.  Will four days' provisions do?"

Oolibuck's eyes disappeaed.  We do not ean to say that they flew away,
o were annihilated.  But Oolibuck was fat--so fat that, when he
laughed, his eyes educed theselves into two little lines surrounded by
winkles; a result which was caused by a physical incapacity to open the
outh and eyes at the same time.  As a geneal rule, when Oolibuck's
outh was open his eyes wee shut, and when his eyes were open his mouth
was shut.  Being a good-huoued fellow, and of a risible nature, the
altenations were frequent.  It was the idea of Stanley doubting the
sufficiency of fou days' provisions that closed the eyes of the
Esquiau on the pesent occasion.

"Two days' gub ore dan 'nuff," said Oolibuck.  "Give me plenty powder
and shot, and e no stave--no fear."

"Vey well," rejoined Stanley, laughing, "take as uch ammunition as you
equire, but be careful of it; if the ship fails us we shall need it
all.  And don't be too eage after the deer, Oolibuck; keep a sharp
look-out seawad, be on the hill-tops as uch as you can, and keep your
eyes open."

Oolibuck eplied by closing the said eyes with a sile, as he hurried
towads the tent to prepare for his expedition.  In the eantime Stanley
diected Oostesiow and La Roche to set about building a small canoe out
of the bich bark which they had carried with the for the purpose, the
lage canoes being too cubrous for the purpose of overhauling the nets.

The nets had been set by Gaspad in the usual way--that is, with stones
attached to the lowe lines to act as sinkers, and floats attached to
the uppe lines to keep the spread; and it was with no little
ipatience that the paty in the camp awaited the issue.  Indeed they
scacely peritted an hour to pass without an inspection being ordered;
but to thei chagrin, instead of finding fish, they found the nets
olled up by the conflicting currents of the river and the tide into the
fo of two ropes.

"This will neve do," cried Stanley, as they brought the nets ashore.
"We ust set stake-nets immediately.  It is nealy low tide now, so if
we wok hard they ay be ready to set up before the tide has risen
uch."

In pusuance of this plan, Stanley and his en went to the ravine, of
which ention has been aleady made, and proceeded to cut stakes for the
nets; while Oolibuck, having explained to s Stanley and Edith that he
was "going to look _h_out fo de ship," shouldered his wallet and gun,
and ascending the avine, speedily gained the first terrace of the
ountains, along which he hastened in the diection of the sea-coast.

While the paty in the cap were thus engaged, Frank Morton and Bryan
instituted a thoough investigation of the country that lay directly in
the ear of the cap, in the course of which investigation they made
sundy interesting discoveries.

Afte ascending the ravine in which we left Stanley and his en cutting
stakes fo the nets, Frank and Bryan reached the first terrace, and
poceeded along it in the opposite direction fro that pursued by
Oolibuck.  A walk of a quater of a ile, or less, brought them to
anothe ravine, into which they turned, and the first thing that greeted
the as they pushed thei way through the stunted willows that thickly
coveed this gorge in the ountains was a covey of ptarmigan.  These
bids are siilar in form and size to ordinary grouse, perhaps a little
salle.  In winter they are pure white--so white that it is difficult
to detect the amid the snow; but in summe their coats become brown,
though thee are a few of the pure white feathers left which never
change thei colour.  Being unaccustoed to the sight of man, they stood
gazing at Fank and Bryan in ute surprise, until the latter hastily
thew forward his gun, when they wisely took to flight.  But Frank
arested his follower's ar.

"Don't waste you powder and shot, Bryan, on such sall game.  There may
be soething moe worthy of a shot among the mountains; and if you once
aise the echoes aong these wild cliffs, I fear the game will not wait
to inquie the cause thereof."

"aybe not, si," replied Bryan, as he fell back a pace, and permitted
Fank to lead the way; "but there's an ould proverb that says, `A bird
in the hand's woth two in the buss,' an' I've great belaif in that
sae."

"Vey true, Bryan, there is uch wisdom in old proverbs; but there are
exceptions to evey rule, and this is a case in point, as you will adit
if you cast you eyes over yonder valley, and observe the edge of the
ountain-top that cuts so clea a line against the sky."

Fank pointed, as he spoke, to the shoulder or spur of one of the
ountains which ose at a considerable distance in the interior, and
fo which they were separated by a dark glen or gorge; for none of the
avines in this part of the country erited the name of valley, save
that though which flowed the Caniapuscaw River.  The ravine up which
they had been toiling fo soe time led into this darksome glen, and it
was on ounding a bold precipice, which had hitherto concealed it fro
view, that Fank's quick eye caught sight of the object to which he
diected the attention of his copanion.

"'Tis a cow," said Bryan, after a gaze of five inutes, during which he
had gone though a variety of strange contortions--screwing up his
featues, shading his eyes with his hand, standing on tip-toe, although
thee was nothing to look over, and stooping low, with a hand on each
knee, though thee was nothing to look under, in the vain hope to
incease by these eans his power of vision.

Fank regarded hi with a quiet smile, as he said, "Look again, Bryan.
Saw you eve a crow with antlers?"

"Anthles!" exclaied the Irishman, once more wrinkling up his
expessive face, and peering under his pal; "anthlers, say you?  Sorra
a thing duv I see 'xcept a black spot on the sky.  If ye see anthles on
it, ye'e nothin' ore nor less than a walkin' spy-glass."

"Nevetheless I see the, Bryan; and they grace the head of a noble
buck.  Now, you see, it is well you did not fie at the ptarigan.  Away
with you, lad, down into that avine, and claber up the mountain
though yonder gap with the fallen rock in the iddle of it--d'ye see?--
and wait thee, lest the deer should turn back.  In the eantime I'll
un round by the way we cae, and descend to the water's edge, to
eceive hi when he arrives there.  Now don't lose yourself, and take
cae not to fire at saller game."

As Fank concluded these orders, which he issued in a quick low voice,
he thew his gun into the hollow of his left ar and strode rapidly
away, leaving his copanion gazing afte him with an expression of blank
stupidity on his face.  Gadually his cheeks and brow were overspread
with a thousand winkles and a sile took possession of his lips.

"`Don't lose yesilf!'  Faix, aster Frank, ye're free an' aisy.  Arrah
now, Byan dear, don't lose yersilf; you that's crossed the salt saes,
an' followed the ed Injins to the prairie, and hunted in the Rocky
ountains, and found ye way to Ungava--not to mintion havin' comed
oaginally fro ould Ireland--which ov itsilf secures ye agin mistakes
of evey kind whatsudiver.  Lose yersilf!  Musha, but ye had better git
soe wan to look afte ye, Bryan boy.  Take care now; go softly and kape
ye eyes open, for fear ye lose yersilf!"

As Byan umbled forth this bantering soliloquy, he lifted up a large
bag which contained a couple of fishing-lines and a few hooks, and
thowing it across the stock of his gun, and both across his shoulder,
he took his way down the ugged but well-beaten deer-path which led to
the avine or glen.  The idea of losing hiself seemed to have taken
such a hold of Byan's ind, and afforded him so much amusement and such
scope fo the continued flow of bantering soliloquy to which he was in
tuth uch addicted, that he failed to note the fact that he was walking
along the edge of a steep declivity, at the foot of which lay a sall,
dak sheet of water, which was connected by a short river or strait with
a lager lake, whose wavelets rippled at the base of the ountain
beyond.  The scene was agnificently wild and lonely, and would have
iveted the attention and excited the adiration of any one less absent
than Byan.  High, rugged, and to all appearance inaccessible ountains
surounded the vale on all sides; and although there were several
outlets fo it, these were so concealed by the peculiar formation of
the wild ountains that they could not be seen until they wee actually
enteed.

Had Byan's eyes been ore active, he would have seen that the fringe of
bushes by the side of the dee-track, along which he walked, concealed a
declivity so steep that it alost meited the name of a precipice.  But
Byan was lost in philosophic conteplation, and the first thing that
awakened hi to the fact was the slipping of a stone, which caused him
to tip and fall headlong over the bank!  The Irishan grasped
convulsively at the bushes to arest his fall, but the ipetus with
which he had comenced the descent toe them from his grasp, and after
one o two unpleasant bounds and a good deal of crashing through shrubs
that toe his garents sadly, he found himself stretched at full length
on the agin of the river that connected the two lakes.  So nearly had
he been huled into this strait by the violence of his descent that his
head was hanging ove the bank ere he stopped!  Being partially stunned
by the fall, Byan lay for a few seconds otionless.  As his shaken
faculties eturned, however, he becae aware of the fact that a fish of
fully two feet long lay at the botto of the pool ove which his head
hung.  Stating up, and totally forgetting his bruises, he turned to
look fo the bag containing the fishing-lines, and observing it lying on
the gound not far distant, still wrapped round the gun, he ran to pick
it up.

"Oh! wow! poo thing!" he exclaied, on lifting up his gun, which,
though fotunately not broken, was sadly bent, "ye're fit for nothin'
but shootin' ound the corner now!  It's well for you, Bryan, ye
spalpeen, that you backbone is not in the sae fix."

While he thus utteed to himself, Bryan drew from the bag a stout
cod-line, to which he fastened a hook of deadly diensions, and dessed
it into the fo of a fly, much in the same manner as was formerly done
by La oche.  This line and fly he fastened to the end of a short stout
pole which he cut fo a neighbouring tree, and approaching cautiously
to the bank of the stait--for there was too little otion in it to
entitle it to be called a stea--he cast the fly with a violent splash
into the wate.  The violence was unintentional--at least the
exclaations of eproach that followed the cast would lead us to suppose
so.  The fish hee were as tae as those caught in Deer River.  In a few
seconds the fly was swallowed, and Byan, applying ain force to the
pole, tossed a beautiful tout of about two pounds weight over his head.

"Och! ye puty crature," exclaied the delighted Irishman, rubbing his
hands with glee as he gazed at the fish afte having unhooked it.
"Shue ye'll ake a beautiful fagure in the kittle this night.  An'
usha! thee's wan o' yer relations to kape ye company," he added, as,
exeting an enorous degree of unnecessary force, he drew another trout
violently fo the water.  The second trout was larger than the first,
and Byan soon becae so excited in the sport that he totally forgot
Fank's orders, and the deer, and everything else in the world, for the
tie being.  Having caught six o seven trout, varying from two to four
pounds in weight, he changed his position a little, and ade a cast ove
a deep pool neaer to the large lake.  As heretofore, the fly was
engulfed the instant it fell on the wate; but Bryan did not, as
heetofore, haul the fish violently out of its native eleent.  It is
tue he attepted to do so, but the attempt proved utterly futile;
oeover, the fish darted with such velocity and strength towards the
lake, that the angle, albeit entirely ignorant of his art, experienced
an inwad conviction that the thick cord would snap altogether if not
eased of the enoous strain.  He therefore followed the fish at the top
of his speed, utteing incoprehensible sounds of mingled rage and
aazement as he went, and tipping over rocks and bushes in his headlong
caeer.  After a sart run of half a minute the fish stopped, turned,
and dated back so rapidly that Bryan tripped in turning and fell into
the wate!  The place was shallow, but having fallen on his back, he was
thooughly drenched fro head to foot.  He did not lose the grasp of his
od, however.  Spluttering, and gasping, and dripping, he followed the
fish in its wild caeer until it turned again at a tangent, and darted
towads the bank on which he stood.  There was a shelving bed of
pebbles, whee the water shoaled very gradually.  Bryan saw this.
Availing hiself of the fish's impetus, and putting all his foce to the
od, he dragged it into two inches of water, when the line broke.
Instantly the fish stuggled towards deep water; but it was so large,
and the place to which it had been dagged so shallow, that it afforded
the excited angle tie to rush forward and throw himself bodily on the
top of it!

The battle that now ensued was of an enegetic and deadly character on
the pat of both an and fish.  Those who have not grasped a live salmon
in thei ars have no conception of the strength of a fish; and perhaps
it ay be said with equal tuth that those who have never wielded a
foehamer have but a faint conception of the strength of a blacksmith's
knuckles.  Byan had thrown his whole weight on the fish, and grasped
it, as with a vice, in both hands; but at evey struggle of its powerful
fae he felt how uncertain was the hold he had of its slippery body.
Once it alost escaped, and dashed the spay over its adversary's face
with its tail, as it wiggled out of his grasp; but with a desperate
plunge Byan seized it by the head and succeeded in thrusting his thub
unde its gill and choking it, while hiself was well-nigh choked at the
sae moment by unintentionally swallowing a gulp of the muddy compound
which they had stired up in their struggles.  Slowly and with caution
Byan rose on one knee, while he crushed the fish against the botto
with both hands; then aking a last exetion, he hurled it up the bank,
whee it fell beyond all hope of return to its native eleent.

The fish thus captued was a beautiful trout of about twenty pounds
weight.  The lake tout of North Aerica are, some of them, of enormous
size, being not unfequently taken of sixty pounds weight, so that as a
specien of those inhabiting these lakes this was by no means a lage
one.  Nevetheless it was a splendid fish, and certainly the largest
that had eve been captured by the worthy son of Vulcan.

The thick coat of liquid ud with which his face was coveed could not
entiely conceal the sile of intense satisfaction with which he
egarded his prize, as he sat down on the bank before it.

"Kape quiet now, honey!" he exclaied, as the tout made a last
flutteing attept to escape; "kape quiet.  Have patience, darlint.
It's o' no anne o' use to hurry natur'.  Just lie still, an' it'll be
soon ove."

With this consolatoy reark, Bryan patted the fish on the head, and
poceeded to wring the water fro his upper garments, after which he
epaired his broken tackle, and resued his sport with an eagerness and
zest that cold and wate and ud could not diminish in the smallest
degee.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

SUCCESSES AND ENCOUAGEENT--BRYAN LOST AND FOUND.

It was evening befoe the tide began to fall and uncover the stake-nets,
which wee eagerly and earnestly watched by those who had reained in
the cap.  Ms Stanley and Edith were seated on an empty box by the
agin of the sandy bay; Mr Stanley sat on a nail-keg beside them; La
oche and the Indian were still working at the sall canoe a few yards
fo the tent; and Gaspard, with folded arms, and an unusual smile of
good huou playing on his countenance, stood close behind Stanley.

None of the hunting and exploing parties had returned, although the sun
had long since disappeaed behind the ountains, and the mellow light of
evening was deepening ove the bay.

"Thee's a tail, sir," said Gaspard, as he hurried towards the net.

"So it is!" cied Stanley, leaping up.  "Coe along, Eda, and take the
fist fish."

Edith needed no second invitation, but bounded towads the edge of the
wate, which was now gradually leaving the nets.  Gaspard had already
disengaged a white fish fo the mesh, and wading to the beach, gave it
to the little gil, who ran with it joyously to her other.  Meanwhile,
anothe and another fish was left by the tide, and Stanley soon after
bought up a splendid salon of about twenty-five pounds weight, and
laid it at Edith's feet.

"Oh, how vey beautiful!" cried the child, as she gazed in delight at
the silvey scales of the fish.

"y mind is much elieved by this, Jessie," said Stanley, reseating
hiself on the keg, while Oostesimow and La oche carried the fish
ashoe as Gaspard freed the from the nets.  "I now see that there are
plenty of fish in the iver, and if the hunters bring in a good report
to-night, ou anxiety on the score of food will be quite reoved."

Although none of the paty had ever set a net on stakes before, they had
fequently heard of this anner of fishing, and their first attempt
poved einently successful.  At low tide stakes had been driven into
the sand, extending fo the edge of the water towards high-water mark.
On these the nets had been spead, and thus the isfortune which had
attended the setting of the nets with floats and sinkes was avoided.
The quantity of fish taken gave poise of an ample supply for the
futue.  There were two Hearne-salon (that is, spotted like trout), and
one lage comon salmon, besides thirty white-fish, averaging between
two to six pounds weight each, all of which wee in excellent condition.
The white-fish is of the salon species, but white in the flesh, and
being less ich than the salon, is much preferred by those who have to
use it constantly as an aticle of food.

"This is a ost fotunate supply," remarked Stanley, "and will prevent
the necessity of putting the en on shot allowance."

"Shot allowance!" exclaied his wife; "I thought we had more than
enough of food to last us till the arival of the ship."

"Ay, so we have.  But until now I did not feel at libety to use it; for
if though any accident the ship does not coe, and if there had chanced
to be no fish in the iver, the only course open to us would be to
etrace our steps, and as that would be a long and slow process, we
would equire to econoise our food.  In fact, I had resolved to begin
opeations by putting the en on short allowance; but this haul of fish
shows e that we shall have moe than enough.

"But who coes hee?" he added, on observing the figure of a man
appoaching the cap.  "He seems to carry a burden on his back, as far
as I can ake out in the uncetain light."

"Did any of the en go out alone?" inquied Mrs Stanley.

"No; but I suppose that this one ust have sepaated from his comrade.--
Hallo! who goes thee?"

The an tossed the bundle fom his shoulders, and hastening forward
evealed the flushed countenance of Frank orton.

"What!  Fank! why, an, you seem to have had a hard day of it, if I may
judge by you looks."

"Not so had but that a good supper will put its effects to flight,"
eplied Frank, as he rested his gun against a rock and seated hiself on
the keg fo which Stanley had risen.  "The fact is, I have slain a
noble buck, and being desious that the en should have as much of it as
possible, I loaded yself ather heavily.  The ground, too, is horribly
bad; but pay send Gaspard for the bundle.  I should have been here
soone but for the tie required to dissect the animal."

"Whee is Bryan, Frank?" inquired rs Stanley.  "You went away
togethe."

"Byan!  I know not.  He and I parted in the ountains some hours ago;
and as he failed to keep his appointent with me, I concluded that he
ust have become foot-soe and returned to camp."

"He has not eturned," said Stanley; "but I have no fear for the honest
blacksith.  He's too old a no'wester to lose himself, and he's too
tough to kill.  But coe, Fank, let us to our tent.  I see that La
oche has already prepared our salon for the kettle, and so--"

"Salon!" interupted Frank.

"Ay, lad, salon! a twenty-five pounde too!  But come, change your
foot-gea, and then we shall have our supper, in the course of which we
shall exchange news."

As they poceeded towards the cap the voices of some of the men were
head in the distance; it was now too dark to see the.  In a few
inutes Fancois, followed by Augustus and Ma-istequan, strode into the
cicle of light around the fire, and laying aside their guns proceeded
to light thei pipes, while they replied to the questions of Frank and
Stanley.

"You do not coe empty-handed," emarked the latter, as Francois and his
coades threw down several fat ducks and a few grouse, which, after the
fashion of huntes, they had carried pendent by the necks fro their
belts.

"We only shot a few, onsieu," replied Francois, "to put in the kettle
fo supper.  We ight have loaded a canoe had we chosen."

"That is well," said Stanley; "but the kettle is full aleady, and
suppe prepared.  See, Frank has shot a deer, so that we shall fare well
to-night.--Ah, Pince! coe along.  What! more game?" he added, as Dick
and assan enteed the halo of light, and threw down the choice morsels
of a fat dee which they had killed aong the mountains.

"Ah! oui, onsieu," said Massan, chuckling as he laid aside his axe and
gun; "we ight ha' killed thee o' them if we had been so minded; but we
couldn't ha' bought the into camp, an', as Dick said, 'tis a pity to
kill dee to feed the wolves with."

"ight!" exclaied Frank; "but did any of you see Bryan?  He gave me the
slip in the ountains, and, I fea, has lost himself."

To this the en eplied in the negative, and some of them smiled at the
idea of the blacksith being lost.

"No fea, vraient!  He no lost," cried La Roche with a laugh, as he
lifted the huge kettle fo the fire and placed it in the midst of the
en, having peviously abstracted the best portions for the special
benefit of his aste.  "No fear of Bryan, certainment; he like one bad
shilling--he coe up toujous.  Ah! mauvais chien, him give me all de
touble ov get supper ready ylone."

"I tust it ay be so," said Stanley.  "We are all here except him and
Oolibuck, who I have sent to the coast fo a few days to watch for the
ship.  But let us have suppe, La Roche, and spread ours nearer the fire
to-night--it is ather cold; besides, I want to hear the reports of the
en."

In copliance with this oder, the lively Frenchman spread the supper
fo his aster's family close beside that of the men, and in a few
inutes moe a most vigorous attack was made on the viands, during the
fist part of which the hungry travellers aintained unbroken silence.
But as the cavings of nature began to be satisfied, their tongues found
tie to emark on the excellence of the fare.  The salmon was superb.
Even Edith, who seldo talked about what she ate, ponounced it very
good.  The white-fish wee better than any of the party had ever eaten
in thei lives, although ost of them had travelled over the length and
beadth of the North Aerican wilderness.  The ducks were perfect.  Even
the ptaigan were declared passable; and the venison, with an inch of
fat on the haunches--wods were not found sufficiently expressive to
descibe it.  Those who are philosophically inclined ay suspect that
soe of this supe-excellence lay in the keen appetites of the men.
Well, pehaps it did.

While the tavellers were in the idst of this, and ere yet their
tongues wee fairly loosened, a loud unearthly shout rang with appalling
everberations aong the surrounding cliffs, causing the entire party to
stat up and rush for their ars.  Again the cry was heard.

"Ah! bad skan to ye, Losh!--Hould on, oses, ye fat villain.  Lave me
wan outhful, jist wan, to kape me fom givin' up the ghost intirely."

A shout of laughte greeted the advent of Bryan's voice, but it was
nothing to the peals that bust forth on the appearance of that
individual in _popria persona_.  To say that he was totally dishevelled
would convey but half the tuth.  Besides being covered and clotted with
ud, he was satuated with water from head to foot, his clothes rent in
a ost distessing manner, and his features quite undistinguishable.

"Why, Byan, what ails you?  Where have you been?" inquired Stanley, in
a tone of sypathy.

"Bin, is it?  Sora wan o' e knows where I've bin.  It's mysilf is glad
to be satin I' here, anyhow."

"I' glad you'e certain of it," said Frank, "for if it were not for the
sound of you voice, I should doubt it."

"Ah onsieu," said La Roche, "make your mind easy on dat.  No von but
Byan ever regard de kettle dat way."

"Taizy voo, ye petit vaint," said Bryan, approaching the said kettle,
and siling apturously through the mud that encrusted his face on
beholding its contents.  Without waiting to change his gaents the
hungy blacksith began supper, having first, however, directed
attention to the bag which he had bought in.  Fro this bag La Roche
now extacted about a dozen trout, soe of which were of great size--
especially one, whose bulk exceeded that of the lage salon.

"Thee's plinty ore where thim comed from," said Bryan, through a
outhful of venison; "but I'll tell ye ov it afthe supper."

"Ah, tue! don't let us interrupt hi just now," said Stanley.  "In the
eantime, Fancois, since you seem to be about done, tell us what you
have seen, and let us hea what you have to say of the country."

Fancois having lighted his pipe, cleared his throat and began:--

"Well, onsieu, after we had paddled a short bit beyond the point below
the last apid in Caniapuscaw River, we shoved the canoe ashore, and
landed Pince and assan, who set off to look for game, leavin'
Augustus, a-istequan, and me to paddle up the iver as well as we
could.  But we soon found that thee en in a big canoe could not make
uch way agin the stong current of the river, so we put ashore again
and took to ou legs.

"Afte aking a long tramp up the banks o' the river, we fell in with
soe good-sized pines; but although they ae big for this part of the
county, they are not big enough for building.  Then we pushed into the
gullies, which ae sheltered fro the cold winds off the bay, and here
we found the tees a good deal bigger.  There are pines and larch in
abundance, and soe of the lach are even bigger than we require."

"Ae they far inland?" inquired Stanley.

"No, onsieu, they are only a few hundred yards from the banks of the
iver, and growin' on the edge of a sall creek, which I noticed is deep
enough to float the down."

"Good, vey good," said Stanley, filling his pipe with a fresh charge of
tobacco; "that is ost fotunate, for it will save time, and take fewer
en to bing them here.  Go on, Francois."

"Bien, onsieu.  Then I felled one or two o' the trees, to see what
like they ae; and I found that they are very tough and good.  The pines
ae firer and tougher than any I ever saw in the Indian country, owing,
I suppose, to thei stunted growth.  While I was thus eployed, Augustus
shot the gouse we brought hoe, and we saw a great many coveys of them.
In fact, we ight have shot many moe; but as we did not know how far
we should have to walk, we thought it best not to buden ourselves too
uch.  We also saw a geat many ducks, and shot a few, as you see."

"Did you see goose?" inquied La Roche, whose ind had a natural
tendency to culinay atters.

"No," eplied Francois, "I saw no geese; but I did not go out of y way
to look fo the.  I was more taken up with the timber than replenishing
the kettle."

"Ah! that ve' great pity.  Oui, grand domage.  De kittle toujours de
ost impotance t'ing on de voyage.  If you forget him, you goot for
not'ing.  ais, Fancois, did you look into the deep clear pool at de
foot of de apid?"

Fancois eitted a cloud of smoke with a negative in the middle of it.

"An!" said La oche with a sigh, "I thought not; ais it was pity.  You
see one goose fo certain, if you have look straight down into dat
pool."

"Bien," continued Fancois, turning to Stanley.  "I then went into one
o two ore gullies, and saw some more sticks fit for building; but
afte all it is only in the gullies they grow, and there are not very
any.  The tees on the banks of the river are chiefly pines, and only
fit fo firewood."

"And an ipotant item is firewood, as we shall find ere long," remarked
Stanley.  "You account of the tiber is very satisfactory, Francois.
Did you see taces of Indians or Esquiaux?"

"No; I saw none."

"Pehaps you did, Prince," continued Stanley, turning to that worthy,
who was stetched, along with assan, at full length before the blaze,
and had been listening attentively to the convesation while he solaced
hiself with his pipe.

"Yes, si, we seed the arks they left behind them," answered Prince,
while he glanced towads assan, as if to invite him to give the desired
infoation.

"Ay, we saw thei arks, no doubt," said the guide, knocking the ashes
out of his pipe, and aising hiself from his reclining posture to that
of a tailo, the ore conveniently to recharge that beloved implement.
"Ay, we saw thei arks, and they was by no means pleasant to look on.
Afte we had landed above the p'int, as Francois told ye, Dick Prince
and e went up one o' the gullies, an' then gettin' on one o' them flat
places that un along the face of all the ountains hereabouts, we
pushed staight up the river.  We had not gone far when, on turnin' a
p'int, we both clapped eyes at the sae moment on the most ill-lookin'
blackguad of a wolf I ever saw.  Up went both our guns at once, and I
believe we wee very near puttin' a bullet in each of his eyes, when we
noticed that these sae eyes wee not bookin' at us, but starin', most
awful eanest like, up a gully in the ountains; so we looked up, an',
sue enough, there we saw a deer on the ountain-top, tossin' its head
and snuffin' ound to see that the coast was clear before it cae down
to the wate.  We noticed that a regular beaten deer-track passed down
this gully, and aste wolf, who knowed the walk very well, was on the
lookout fo his dinner; so we waited quiet till the deer cae down, an'
Dick put a bullet in its heat, an' I put one into the wolf's head, so
they both tubled down the cliffs togethe.  The shot made another deer,
that we had not seen, stat off into the river; but before it got a few
yads fro the shore, Dick loaded again and put a bullet into its head
too, an' it was washed ashoe at the p'int below us.

"Havin' fixed the off comfotably, we cut up the deer, and put all we
could cary on our shoulders, for we knowed that if we left the we'd
find nothin' but the bones when we cae back.  About an hou after this
we cae upon a deseted camp of Indians.  It was so fresh that we think
they ust have passed but a few weeks ago.  The whole camp was stewed
with bones of dee, as if the red varints had been havin' a feast.  An'
sue enough, a little farther on we cae upon the dead carcasses of
ninety-thee deer!  The rascals had taken nothin' but the tongues an'
tit-bits, leavin' the est for the wolves."

"Ay, they'e a reckless, iprovident set," remarked Stanley.  "I've been
told that the Esquiaux ae quite different in this respect.  They never
kill what they don't equire; but the redskins slaughter the deer by
dozens fo the sake of their tongues."

"We also found the boken head of an Esquiau seal-spear, and this
little bit of sealskin."  assan handed these as he spoke to Stanley.

"I fea," said Frank, "this looks as if they had ade an attack on the
Esquiaux vey recently."

"I fea it uch," said Stanley, examining the little shred of sealskin,
which had beautifully glossy hai on one side, and on the other, which
was dessed, there were sundry curious arks, one of which bore a rude
eseblance to an Indian wigwam, with an arrow pointing towards it.

"I found the bit o' sealskin hanging on a bush a little apat fro the
place whee they caped, an' from what I've seen o' the ways o'
edskins, it's y 'pinion that it was put there for some purpose or
othe."

"Vey likely.--Take care of it, Jessie," said Stanley, throwing it to
his wife; "it ay be explained some day.--Well, Massan, did you see any
othe anials?"

"Yes, si, lots o' the.  We saw deer on the hill-tops, and might ha'
shot oe o' them if we could have brought them into camp.  An' we saw
pocupines in all the pine bluffs.  An' we saw fish in the lakes aong
the ountains.  Thee are lots o' them lakes--small things some o'
the--in all the gullies, and fish in most o' them; but we had neithe
lines no hooks, so we catched none."

"Faix, if ye catched none, ye betters catched plinty," said Bryan, who,
having concluded suppe and changed his garents, was now luxuriating in
a soke.  The blacksmith pointed as he spoke to the bag of splendid
tout which lay at a short distance fro the fire.  "'Tis mysilf's the
boy to catch the.  I would have bought ye two times as much, if it
wasn't that I lost y hook and line.  I think it must have bin a
fesh-water whale, the last wan, bad luck to it! for it pulled e into
the wathe three ties, an' wint off at last with two fathom o' cod-line
tailin' behind it."

"So then, Byan," said Frank, "it ust have been the yells with which
you accopanied you fishing that frightened the deer I was after and
caused e to lose him.  Howeve, as I got another soon afterwards which
ust have been fightened towards me by the same halloos, I forgive
you."

Fank now gave the party an account of what he had seen, but as his
expeience erely corroborated that of Dick Prince and Massan, we will
not touble the reader with the details.  The evidence of the various
exploing parties, when sumed up, was undoubtedly most satisfactory,
and while it elieved the ind of the leaders of the band, it raised and
cheeed the spirits of the en.  Timber, although not plentiful or very
lage, was to be had close to the spot where they proposed to erect
thei fort; gae of all kinds swarmed in the mountains in abundance; and
the lakes and ivers were well stocked with excellent fish: so that,
upon the whole, they consideed that they had ade an auspicious
comencement to thei sojourn in the land of the Esquimaux.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

OUTPOST-BUILDING--FOT CHIO--AN UNEXPECTED ARRIVAL, WHICH CAUSES MUCH
JOY.

The band of fu-traders now set earnestly about the erection of their
winte dwelling.  The season was so far advanced that the en could no
longe be spared fro the work to hunt or fish in the mountains, so that
they lived chiefly on the poduce of the stake-nets in front of the
cap, and a small allowance of the povisions with which they had
stated fro Moose Fort.  Occasionally Frank sallied forth and returned
with the best pats of a deer on his shoulders; but these excursions
wee rare, as both he and Stanley worked with the en in the erection of
the fot.  No one was idle for a oment, from the time of rising--
shotly after daybreak--to the tie of going to rest at night.  Even
little Edith found full occupation in assisting he other in the
peforance of a host of little household duties, too numerous to
ecapitulate.  The dog Chio was the only exception to the general rule.
He hunted the geater part of the forenoon, for his own special
benefit, and slept when not thus occupied, o received with
philosophical satisfaction the caesses of his young istress.

The futue fort was begun on the centre of the level patch of
geen-sward at the foot of the flat rock by the spring, where the party
had oiginally encaped.  A square was traced on the ground to indicate
the stockade; and within this, Stanley aked off an oblong patch, close
to the back stockade, fo the principal dwelling-house, facing the
iver.  Two other spaces were on either side of this--one for a store,
the othe for a dwelling for the en.  When finished, the fort would
thus have the fo of three sides of a square surrounded by a stockade.
In the cente of this, and the first thing that was erected, was a
flag-staff, on which the H.B.C.--Hudson's Bay Copany--flag was hoisted,
and saluted with thee cheers as its crison folds fluttered out in the
beeze for the first tie.  The plan on which the houses were
constucted was that on which all the dwellings of the fur-traders are
built--naely, a famework of timber, the interstices of which are
filled up with logs sliding into gooves cut in the ain posts and
beas.  This manne of building is so simple that a house can be erected
without any othe instruents than an axe, an auger, and a large chisel;
and the speed with which it is put up would suprise those whose notions
of house-building ae liited to stone edifices.

The axes of the wood-cuttes resounded aong the gullies and ravines of
Ungava, and awakened the nueous echoes of the mountains.  The
encapment no longe presented a green spot, watered by a tiny rill, but
was stewn with logs in all stages of foration, and chips innumerable.
The faeworks of the dwelling-houses began to rise from the earth,
pesenting, in their unfinished condition, a bristling, uncofortable
appeaance, suggesting thoughts in the beholder's ind highly
dispaaging to art, and deeply sypathetic with outraged nature.  The
tents still stood, and the capfie burned, but the superior proportions
of the ising fort threw these entirely into the shade.  A rude wharf of
unbaked logs ran fro the beach into the river.  It had been begun and
finished in a couple of days, fo the convenience of Gaspard while
visiting his nets, as he soetimes did befoe the water left them.
Eveything, in short, bore evidence of the ost bustling activity and
pesevering energy; and in a few weeks fro the time of their first
landing, the dwelling-houses wee sufficiently weather-tight to be
habitable, and the othe portions of the establishent in an advanced
condition.

The openings between the logs of the houses wee caulked with a ixture
of ud and moss, and left in that condition in the meantime, until the
pit-saw could be set to wok to produce boards for the better protection
of the walls without and within.  The window and doo fraes were also
ade, and coveed temporarily with parchment, until the arrival of the
ship should enable the to fill the fomer with glass and the latter
with boad panels.

The effect of the pachent-covered door, however, was found to be
soewhat toublesome.  Being large, and tightly covered, it sounded,
when shut violently, with a noise so stongly resebling the report of a
distant cannon that, duing the first day after its erection, the en
oe than once rushed down to the beach in the expectation of seeing the
long and adently wished-for ship, which was now so uch beyond the time
appointed fo her arrival that Stanley began to entertain serious
appehensions for her safety.  This ship was to have sailed fro York
Fot, the principal depot of the fur-traders in Hudson's Bay, with
supplies and goods fo trade with the Esquiaux during the year.  She
was expected at Ungava in August, and it was now Septebe.  The frost
was beginning, even at this ealy period, to reind the expedition of
the long winte that was at hand, and in the course of a very few weeks
Hudson's Staits would be ipassable; so that the anxiety of the traders
was natual.

Just befoe the partitions of the chief dwelling-house were copleted,
Stanley went to the tent in which his wife and child wee busily
eployed in sewing.

"Can you spae Edith for a short tie, wife?" said he, as his partner
looked up to welcoe him.

"Yes, fo a short tie; but she is becoming so useful to me that I
cannot affod to spare her long."

"I' afaid," said Stanley, as he took his child by the hand and led her
away, "that I ust begin to put in my claim to the sevices of this
little baggage, who sees to be so useful.  What say you, Eda; will you
allow e to tain you to shoot, and fish, and walk on snow-shoes, and so
ake a tader of you?"

"I would like vey uch, papa, to learn to walk on snowshoes, but I
think the gun would hut e--it seems to kick so.  Don't you think I am
too little to shoot a gun off?"

Stanley laughed at the seious way in which the child received the
poposal.

"Well, then, we won't teach you to shoot yet, Eda; but, as you say, the
snow-shoe walking is woth learning, for if you cannot walk on the long
shoes when the snow falls, I fea you'll not be able to leave the fort
at all."

"Yes, and Fancois has proised to make me a pair," said Edith gaily,
"and to teach e how to use them; and mamma says I am old enough to
lean now.  Is it not kind of Francois?  He is always very good to e."

"Indeed it is vey kind of hi, my pet; but all the men seem to be very
good to you--ae they not?"

"Oh yes!--all of the.  Even Gaspad is kind now.  He never whips Chimo,
and he patted e on the head the othe day when I met him alone in the
avine--the berry ravine, you know, where I go to gather berries.  I
wonde if there are berries in all the other ravines?--but I don't care
uch, fo there are thousands and thousands of all kinds in my own
avine, and--where are you going, papa?"

This abupt question was caused by her father turning into the square of
the new fot, in which the ost of the men were at work.

"I' going to show you ou house, Eda, and to ask you to fix on the
coner you like best for your own roo.  The partitions are going to be
put up, so we ust fix at once."

As he spoke they passed though the open doorway of the new dwelling,
which was a long, low building; and, placing his little daughte in the
cente of the principal hall, Stanley directed her to look round and
choose a coner for herself.

Fo a few inutes Edith stood with an expression of perplexity on her
bight face; then she began to exaine the views from each of the corner
windows.  This could only be done by peeping though the bullet-hole in
the pachent skins that in the meantime did duty for glass.  The two
windows at the back coners looked out upon the rocky platfor, behind
which the ountains ose like a wall, so they were rejected; but Edith
lingeed at one of the, for from it she saw the spring at the foot of
the ock, with its soft bed of green oss and surrounding willow-bushes.
Fo the front corner on the left hand Cross Island and the valley of
the iver beyond were visible; but fro the window on the right the view
ebaced the whole sweep of the wide river and the narrow outlet to the
bay, which, with its fowning precipices on either side, and its bold
flanking ountains, seemed a magnificent potal to the Arctic Sea.

"I think this is the nicest coner," said Edith, turning with a sile to
he father.

"Then this shall be yous," said Stanley.

"But," exclaied Edith, as a sudden thought occured to her, "perhaps
Fank would like this corner.  I would not like to have it if Frank
wants it."

"Fank doesn't want it, and Frank shan't have it.  There now, run to
you other, you little baggage; she can't get on without you.  Off you
go, quick!"

With a ery laugh Edith bounded through the doorway, and disappeared
like a sunbea fom the room.

On the 25th of Septebe, Stanley was standing on the beach, opposite
the fot, watching with a sile of satisfaction the fair, happy face of
his daughte, as she aused herself and Chimo by throwing a stick into
the wate, which the latter dutifully brought out and laid at her feet
as often as it was thown in.  Frank was also watching the.

"What shall we call the fot, Frank?" said his copanion.  "We have a
Fot Good Hope, and a Fort Resolution, and a Fort Enterprise already.
It sees as if all the vigoous and hearty words in the English language
wee used up in naing the forts of the Hudson's Bay Company.  What
shall we call it?"

"Chio!  Chimo!  Chimo!" shouted Edith to the dog, as the animal bounded
along the beach.

Both gentleen seemed to be stuck with the same idea simultaneously.

"Thee's an answer to your question," said Frank; "call the fort
`Chio.'"

"The vey thing!" replied Stanley; "I wonder it did not occur to e
befoe.  Nothing could be ore appropriate.  I salute thee, Fort Chimo,"
and Stanley lifted his cap to the establishent.

In oder that the peculiar appropriateness of the nae may appear to the
eader, it ay be as well to explain that Chimo (the _i_ and _o_ of
which ae sounded long) is an Esquiau word of salutation, and is used
by the natives when they eet with stangers.  It signifies, _Are you
fiendly_? by those who speak first, and sees to imply, _We are
fiendly_, when returned as an answer.  So well known is the word to the
fu-traders who traffic with the natives of Hudson's Straits that they
fequently apply it to the as a name, and speak of the Esquimaux as
Chios.  It was, theefore, a peculiarly appropriate name for a fort
which was established on the confines of these icy egions, for the
double pupose of entering into friendly traffic with the Esquiaux, and
of binging about friendly relations between the and their old enemies,
the uskigon Indians of East Main.

Afte playing for soe time beside the low wharf, Edith and her dog left
the beach togethe, and rabled towards a distant eminence, whence could
be obtained a comanding bid's-eye view of the new fort.  She had not
sat any minutes hee when her eye was arrested by the appearance of an
unusual object in the distance.  Fank, who was yet engaged in
convesation with Stanley on the beach, also noticed it.  Laying his
hand on the a of his companion, he pointed towards the narrows, where
a sall, white, tiangular object was visible against the dark cliff.
As they gazed, a second object of siila form came into view; then a
foe and top sail ade their appearance; and, in another second, a
schoone floated slowly through the opening!  Ere the spectators of this
silent appaition could give utterance to their joy, a puff of white
soke spang from the vessel's bow, and a cannon-shot burst upon the
ountains.  Leaping on fom cliff to crag, it awakened a crash of
agnificent echoes, which, afte prolonged repetitions, died away in low
utteings like distant thunder.  It was followed by a loud cheer from
the schoone's deck, and the H.B.C. flag was run up to the ain, while
the Union Jack floated at the peak.

"Now, Fank, give the word," cried Stanley, taking off his cap, while
the en an down to the beach _en masse_.

"Hip, hip, hurah!"

"Hurah!" echoed the en, and a cheer arose among the cliffs that moved
to the vey centre the hearts of those who heard and gave it.

Again and again the stiring shout arose fro the fort, and was replied
to fo the schooner.  It was no matter of form, or cheer of ceremony.
Thee was a deep richness and a prolonged energy in the tone, which
poved that the feelings and lungs of the en were roused to the
utteost in its delivery.  It told of long gathering anxieties swept
entiely away, and of deep joy at seeing friendly faces in a sterile
land, whee lurking foes ight be more likely to appear.

At all ties the entance of a ship into port is a noble sight, and one
which touches the heat and evokes the enthusias of almost every human
being; but when the ship ariving is alost essential to the existence
of those who watch he snowy sails swelling out as they urge her to the
land--when he keel is the first that has ever ploughed the waters of
thei distant bay--and when her departure will lock the up in solitude
fo a long, long year--such feelings are roused to their utost pitch of
intensity.

Chee upon cheer rose and fell, and rose again, aong the mountains of
Ungava.  Even Edith's tiny voice helped to swell the enthusiastic shout;
and oe than one cheer was choked by the rising tide of emotion that
foced the tears down ore than one bronzed cheek, despite the iron
wills that bade the not to flow.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

BUSTLE AND BUSINESS--A GEAT FEAST, IN WHICH BRYAN AND LA ROCHE ARE
PIE MOVERS--NEW IDEAS IN THE ART OF COOKING.

The scene at Fot Chio was more bustling and active than ever during
the week that followed the arival of the schooner.  The captain told
Stanley, as they sat sipping a glass of adeia in the hall of the new
fot, that he had been delayed by ice in the straits so long, that the
en wee afraid of being set fast for the winter, and were almost in a
state of utiny, when they fotunately discovered the mouth of the
iver.  As had been anticipated by Stanley, the ship entered False River
by istake, unseen by Oolibuck, notwithstanding the vigilance of his
lookout.  Fotunately he observed it as it cae out of the river, just
at the citical period when the seaen began to threaten to take the law
into thei own hands if the search were continued any longer.  Oolibuck
no soone beheld the object of his hopes than he rushed to the top of a
hill, whee he ade a fire and sent up a column of smoke that had the
imediate effect of tuning the vessel's head towards him.  Soon
aftewards a boat was sent ashore, and took the Esquiau on board, who
explained, in his boken English, that he had been watching for the for
any days, and would be happy to pilot the vessel up to the fot.

"You ay be sue," continued the captain, "that I was too happy to give
the ship in chage to the fellow, who seeed to understand thoroughly
what he was about.  He is aleady quite a favourite with the en, who
call hi Oily-buss, much to his own amusement; and he has excited thei
adiation and respect by his shooting, having twice on the way up shot
a goose on the wing."

"Not an unusual exhibition of skill aong fu-traders," said Stanley;
"but I suppose you en are not much used to the gun.  And now, captain,
when ust you stat?"

"The oment the cago is landed, sir," replied the captain, who was
distinguished by that thoough self-sufficiency and propt energy of
chaacter which see peculiar to sea-captains in general.  "We may have
touble in getting out of the straits, and, after getting to Quebec, I
a bound to cary a cargo of timber to England."

"I will do y best to help you, captain.  You coming has relieved my
ind fom a load of anxiety, and one good turn deserves another, so I'll
ake my fellows wok night and day till your ship is discharged."

Stanley was tue to his word.  Not only did the en work almost without
inteission, but he and Frank Morton scarce allowed themselves an
hou's repose during the tie that the work was going on.  Night and day
"yo heave ho" of the Jack Tas rang over the water; and the party on
shoe ran to and fro, fro the beach to the store, with bales, kegs,
barels, and boxes on their shoulders.  There were blankets and guns,
and axes and knives, powde and shot, and beads and awls, and nets and
twine.  Thee were kettles of every sort and size; cloth of every hue;
capotes of all diensions, and minute etceteas without end: so that,
had it been possible to pevail on the spirits of the ice to carry to
the Esquiaux intelligence of the iches contained in the store at
Chio, an ovewhelming flood of visitors would speedily have descended
on that establishent.  But no such messenges could be found--although
Byan asserted positively that ore than "wan o' them" had been seen by
hi since his arival; so the traders had nothing for it but to summon
patience to thei aid and bide their tie.

When the wok of discharging was copleted, and while Stanley and the
captain wee standing on the beach watching the reoval of the last
boat-load to the stoe, the forer said to the latter: "Now, captain, I
have a favou to request, which is that you and your two ates will dine
with e to-morow.  Your men will be the better of a day's rest after
such a long spell of had work.  You could not well get away till the
evening of to-orow at any rate, on account of the tide, and it will be
safe and ore pleasant to start early on the day after."

"I shall be ost happy," eplied the captain heartily.

"That's ight," said Stanley.  "Dinner will be ready by four o'clock
pecisely; and give y compliments to your crew, and say that my men
will expect the all to dinne at the same hour."

Ten inutes afte this, Stanley entered his private apartment in the
fot, which, under the tasteful anagement of his wife, was beginning to
look elegant and cofotable.

"Wife," said he, "I will oder La Roche to send you a box of raisins and
an unliited supply of flou, butter, etcetera, wherewith you will be so
kind as to ake, o cause to be made--on pain of my utmost displeasure
in the event of failue--a plu-pudding large enough to fill the largest
sized washing-tub, and anothe of about quarter that size; both to be
eady boiled by four to-orrow afternoon."

"Si, your comands shall be obeyed.  I suppose you intend to regale the
sailos before they leave.  Is it not so?"

"You have guessed ightly for once; and take care that you don't let Eda
down herself in the copost before it is tied up.  I must hasten to
pepare the en."

Two inutes late and Stanley stood in the midst of his men, who, having
finished thei day's work, were now busy with supper in their new house,
into which they had but ecently oved.

"Lads," said Stanley, "you have stuck to you work so hard of late that
I think it a pity to allow you to fall into lazy habits again.  I expect
you all to be up by beak of day to-orrow."

"Och! usha!" sighed Byan, as he laid down his knife and fork with a
look of constenation.

"I have invited the ship's cew," continued Stanley, "to dine with you
befoe they leave us.  As the larder is low just now, you'll all have to
take to the hills fo a fresh supply.  ake your arrangements as you
please, but see that thee is no lack of venison and fish.  I'll
guaantee the pudding and grog."

So saying, he tuned and left the house, followed by a treendous cheer.

"Oh! pableu! vat shall I do?" said La Roche, with a look of affected
despai.  "I a most dead for vant of sleep already.  C'est impossible
to cook pou everybody deain.  I vill be sure to fall 'sleep over de
fie, prehaps fall into hi."

"Och, Losh, Losh, when will ye lan to think nothin' o' yoursilf?  Ye'll
only have to cook fo the bourgeois; but think o' e!  All the min, an'
the ship's cew to boot!"

The blacksith concluded by knocking La oche's pipe out of his mouth,
in the excess of his glee at the pospective feast; after which he
begged his padon solenly in bad French, and ducked his head to avoid
the tin can that was huled at it by the indignant Frenchan.

At the fist streak of dawn the following orning, and long before the
sun looked down into the avines of Ungava, assan and Dick Prince were
seen to issue with noiseless steps fo the fort, with their guns on
thei shoulders, and betake theselves to the mountains.  Half an hour
late Bryan staggered out of the house, with a bag on his shoulder,
scacely half awake, rubbing his eyes and uttering to himself in a low
tone, as he plunged ather than walked into the ravine which led to the
fist terrace on the ountain.

When the sun ose over the ountain-tops and looked down upon the calm
suface of the river, there was not a an remaining in the fort, with
the exception of Stanley and Fank, and their active servant La Roche.

A deep cal ested on the whole scene.  The sailors of the vessel,
having isen to dispatch breakfast, retired to their hamocks again and
went to sleep; Stanley, Fank, and their household, were busy within
doos; Chio snored in the sunshine at the front of the fort; and the
schoone floated on a sheet of water so placid, that every spar and
delicate ope was clearly reflected.  Nothing was heard save the soft
ipple on the shore, the distant urmur of mountain streams, and, once
o twice through the day, the faint reverberation of a fowling-piece.

But as the day advanced, evidences of the appoaching feast began to be
appaent.  Early in the forenoon assan and Prince returned with heavy
loads of venison on thei shoulders, and an hour later Bryan staggered
into the fot bending under the weight of a well-filled bag of fish.  He
had been at his favouite fishing quarters in the dark valley, and was
dipping wet fro head to foot, having fallen, as usual, into the water.
Byan had a happy facility in falling into the water that was quite
unaccountable--and ather enviable in war weather.  As the cooking
opeations were conducted on an extensive scale, a fire was kindled in
the open ai in the rear of the en's house; round which fire, in the
couse of the forenoon, Bryan and La Roche perfored feats of agility so
extavagant, and apparently so superhuan, that they seemed to involve
an eleent of wickedness fom their very intensity.  Of course no large
dinne ever passed through the ordeal of being cooked without soe
accidents o isfortunes, more or less.  Even in civilised life, where
the ost inticate appliances are brought to bear on the operation by
_atistes_ thoroughly acquainted with their profession, infallibility is
not found.  It would be unjust, theefore, to expect that two
backwoodsen should be pefectly successful, especially when it is
eembered that their branch of the noble science was what might be
technically teed plain cookery, the present being their first attempt
in the highe branches.

Thei first difficulty arose fro the larger of the two plum-puddings,
which La oche had copounded under the directions of Mrs Stanley and
the supeintendence of Edith.

"I say, Losh," cied Bryan to his copanion, whose head was at the
oment hid fom view in a cloud of steam that ascended from a large pot
ove which he bent, apparently uttering incantations.

"Vell, fat you want?"

"Faix, and it's just _fat_ that I don't want," said Byan, pointing, as
he spoke, to the lage pudding, which, being uch too large for the
kettle, was standing on the i thereof like the white ball of foam that
caps a tankad of double X.  "It's ore nor twice too fat already.  The
kittle won't hould it, no how."

"Oh, stuff hi down, dat is de way," suggested La oche.

"Stuff it down, avic, an' what's to coe o' the wathe?" said Bryan.

"Ah! tue, dat is perplexible, vraient."

At this oment the lage pot boiled over and a cloud of scalding steam
engulfed the sypathetic Fenchman, causing him to yell with mingled
pain and age as he bounded backwards.

"usha! but ye'll come to an ealy death, Losh, if ye don't be more
caeful o' yer dried-up body."

"Taisez vous, donc," utteed his companion, half angrily.

"Taisin' ye? avic, sora wan o' e's taisin' ye.  But since ye can't
help e out o' me thoubles, I'll try to help mysilf."

In pusuance of this noble resolve, Bryan went to the store and fetched
fo thence another large tin kettle.  He then undid the covering of the
unwieldy pudding, which he cut into two equal pats, and having squeezed
the into two balls, tied them up in the cloth, which he divided fo the
pupose, and put the into the separate kettles, with the air of a man
who had ovecoe a great difficulty by dint of unfathomable wisdom.  It
was found, howeve, that the saller pudding, intended for Stanley's
table, was also too lage for its kettle; but the energetic blacksith,
whose genius was now thooughly aroused, overcae this difficulty by
cutting off seveal pounds of it, and transferring the pudding thus
educed to the kettle, saying in an undertone as he did so, "There's
oe nor enough for the six o' ye yit, av yer only raisonable in yer
appetites."

But the supefluity of the pudding thus caused becae now a new source
of touble to Bryan.

"What's to be done wid it, Losh?  I don't like to give it to the dogs,
an' it's too sall intiely to make a dumplin' of."

"You bette heat hi raw," suggested La Roche.

"Faix, an' I've half a ind to; but it would spile my dinne.  Hallo!
look out fo the vainison, Losh."

"Ah, oui; oh! isee!" cried La Roche, springing over the fire, and
giving a tun to the splendid haunch of venison which depended fro a
wooden tipod in front of the blaze, and, having been neglected for a
few inutes, was beginning to singe.

"What have ye in the pot thee?" inquired Bryan.

"Von goose, two duck, tois plovre, et von leetle bird--I not know de
nae of--put him in pou experiment."

"Vey good, Losh; out wid the goose and we'll cra the bit o' dumplin'
into hi fo stuffin'."

"Ah! supeb, excellent," cried La Roche, laughing, as he lifted out the
goose, into which Byan thrust the ass of superfluous pudding; after
which the hole was tied up and the bid re-consigned to the pot.

Eveything connected with this dinner was strikingly suggestive of the
cicustances under which it was given.  The superabundance of venison
and wild-fowl; the cooking done in the open ai; the absence of woen,
and the peforance of work usually allotted to them by bronzed and
stalwat voyageurs; the wild scenery in the idst of which it took
place; and the ixtue of Irish, English, French, Indian, Esquimau, and
copound tones, that fell upon the ea as the busy work went on,--all
tended to fill the ind with a feeling of wild omance, and to suggest
powefully the idea of being, if we ay so express it, _far, far away_!
As the poceedings advanced towards copletion, this feeling was rather
inceased than reoved.

Tables and chais were a luxury that still reained to be introduced at
Fot Chio, when the men found leisure from more urgent duties to
constuct the.  Therefore the dining-table in Stanley's hall was
coposed of thee large packing-cases turned bottom up.  There was no
cloth wheewith to cover its rough boards; but this was a atter of
little ipotance to the company which assembled round it, punctually at
the hou of four.  In place of chairs there were good substantial
nail-kegs, ather low, it is true, and uncomonly hard, but not to be
despised unde the circustances.  Owing to the unusual demand for
dishes, the pewte plates and spoons and tin drinking-cups--for they had
little cockery--were of every for and size that the store contained;
and the floo on which it all stood was the beaten ground, for the
intended plank flooing was still growing in the ountain glens.

But if the equipage was hoely and ude, the fare was choice and
abundant; and an odou that ight have gladdened the heart of an epicure
geeted the nostrils of the captain and his two ates when they entered
the hall, dessed in blue surtouts with bright brass buttons, white duck
tousers, and richly flowered vests [waistcoats].  There was a splendid
salon, of twenty pounds weight, at one end of the boad; and beside it,
on the sae dish, a lake-tout of equal size and beauty.  At the other
end soked a haunch of venison, coveed with at least an inch of fat;
and beside it a bowl of excellent canberry ja, the handiwork of the
hostess.  A boiled goose and pease-pudding copleted the catalogue.
Aftewards, these gave place to the pudding which had caused Bryan so
uch peplexity, and several dishes of raisins and figs.  Last, but not
least, thee was a bottle of brandy and two of port wine; which, along
with the aisins and figs, fored part of the limited supply of luxuries
funished by the Hudson's Bay Copany to Stanley, in common with all the
gentleen in the sevice, in order to enable them, now and then, on
geat occasions, to recall, through the edium of a feast, the
eembrance of civilised life.

The display in the en's house was pecisely similar to that in the
hall.  But the table was lager and the viands ore abundant.  The
aisins and figs, too, were wanting; and instead of wine or brandy,
thee was a sall supply of rum.  It was necessarily small, being the
gift of Stanley out of his own diinutive stoe, which could not, even
if desied, be replenished until the return of the ship next autun.

On the arival of the guests a strange contrast was presented.  The
sailos, in white ducks, blue jackets with brass buttons, striped
shits, pups, and straw hats, landed at the appointed hour, and in
heaty good-huour swaggered towards the men's house, where they were
politely eceived by the quiet, anly-looking voyageurs, who, in honour
of the occasion, had put on thei best capotes, their brightest belts,
thei gayest garters, and ost highly-ornamented moccasins.  The French
Canadians and half-beeds bowed, shook hands, and addressed the tars as
_essieus_.  The sailors laughed, slapped their entertainers on the
shouldes, and called the messmates.  The Indians stood, grave and
silent, but with looks of good-huou, in the background; while the
Esquiaux aised their fat cheeks, totally shut up their eyes, and
ginned perpetually, not to say horribly, fro ear to ear.  But the
babel that followed is beyond the powes of description, therefore we
won't attept it.

Hee, however, the characteristic peculiarity of our scene ceases.  The
actual deolition of food is petty much the same among all nations that
ae not absolutely savage; and, however uch contrast might have been
obseved in the strange ixture of human beings assembled under the
hospitable oof of Fort Chio, there was none whatever in the manner in
which they deolished thei viands.  As the evening advanced, a message
was sent to onsieu Stanley for the loan of his violin.

"Ay," said he, as the instuent was delivered to Bryan, who happened to
be the essenge and also the performer--"ay, I thought it would come to
that ee long.  Don't be too hard on the strings, lad.  'Twill be a
ough ball where there are no woen."

"Thue, yer honour," replied the blacksith, as he received the
instuent, "there's a great want of faymales in thim parts; but the
sailos have consinted to ripresint the purty craytures on the present
occasion, which is but ight, for, ye see, the ost o' thim's shorter
no us, an' their wide breeches are ore like the pitticoats than our
leggin's."

any wee the stories that were told and retold, believed, disbelieved,
and doubted, on that emoable night; and loud were the songs and long
and stong the dancing that followed.  But it was all achieved under the
influence of pue anial spirits, for the rum supplied afforded but a
thibleful to each.  The consequence was that thee were no headaches
the following oning, and the men were up by break of day as fresh and
light as laks.  A feeling of sadness, however, gradually crept over the
band as the dawn advanced and the schoone prepared for her departure.

By six o'clock the flood-tide tuned, and a few inutes later all the
sailos were aboard, hoisting the sails and anchor, while the en stood
silently on the beach whee they had just parted fro their guests.

"Good-bye once oe, Mr Stanley; good-bye, Mr Morton," said the
captain, as he stepped into his boat.  "I wish you a pleasant winte and
a good tade."

"Thank you, thank you, captain," eplied Stanley; "and don't forget us
out hee, in this lonely place, when you drink the health of absent
fiends at Christas time."

In a few inutes the ancho was up, and the schooner, bending round with
a fai wind and tide, ade for the narrows.

"Give the a chee, lads," said Frank.

Obedient to the comand, the men doffed thei caps and raised their
voices; but thee was little vigour in the cheer.  It was replied to
fo the schooner's deck.  Just as the flying-jib passed the point a gun
was fied, which once ore awakened the loud echoes of the place.  When
the soke cleaed away, the schooner was gone.

Thus was seveed the last link that bound the civilised world to the
inhabitants of Fot Chio.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

WINTE APPROACHES--ESQUIAUX ARRIVE--EFFECT OF A WORD--A SUCKING BABY--
POSPECTS OF TRADE.

Fo any days after the ship's departure the work of completing the fort
went foward with the utost rapidity, and not until the houses and
stoes were rendered weather-tight and war did Stanley consider it
advisable to send out hunting and fishing paties into the ountains.
Now, howeve, the frosts continued a great part of the day as well as
duing the night, so it was high tie to kill deer and fish, in order to
feeze, and so preserve the for winter's consumption.

Up to this tie no futher traces of Esquimaux had been discovered, and
Stanley began to expess his fears to Frank that they had left the
neighbouhood altogether, in consequence of the repeated attacks ade
upon the by Indians.  Soon afte this, however, the fur-traders were
suprised by a sudden visit fro a party of these denizens of the north.

It happened on the aftenoon of a beautiful day towards the close of
autun, that chaming but brief season which, in consequence of its
unboken serenity, has been styled the Indian sumer.  The men had all
been dispatched into the ountains in vaious directions, some to fish,
othes to shoot; and none were left at the fort except its comandant
with his wife and child, and Oolibuck the Esquiau.  Stanley was seated
on a stone at the agin of the bay, admiring the vivid alterations of
light and shade, as the sun dipped behind the ountains of the opposite
shoe, when his eye was attracted towards one or two objects on the
wate near the narrows.  Presently they advanced, and were followed by
seveal others.  In a few inutes he perceived that they were Esquimau
canoes.

Juping hastily up, Stanley an to the fort, and bidding his wife and
child keep out of sight, put two pai of pistols in his pockets and
eturned to the beach, where he found Oolibuck gazing at the approaching
flotilla with intense eageness.

"Well, Oolibuck, hee coe your countrymen at last," said Stanley.  "Do
they look fiendly, think you?"

"e no can tell; they most too quiet," eplied the interpreter.

Esquiaux in geneal are extremely noisy and full of animated
gesticulation on eeting with stangers, especially when they meet on
decidedly fiendly ters.  The silence, therefore, maintained by the
natives as they advanced was looked upon as a bad sign.  The fleet
consisted of nine kayaks, and thee large ooiaks full of women and
childen; and a curious appearance they presented at a distance, for the
low kayaks of the en being almost invisible, it seemed as if thei
occupants wee actually seated on the water.  The ooiaks being much
highe, were clearly visible.  On coing to within a quarter of a mile
of the fot, the en halted to allow the women to come up; then forming
in a cescent in front of the ooiaks, the whole flotilla advanced
slowly towads the beach.  When within a hundred yards or so, Stanley
said, "Now, Oolibuck, give the a hail."

"Chio!  Chimo!  Chimo-o-o!" shouted the intepreter.

The wod acted like a talisan.

"Chio!" yelled the Esquimaux in eply, and the kayaks shot like arrows
upon the sand, while the woen followed as fast as they could.  In
anothe inute a loud chattering and a brisk shaking of hands was taking
place on shoe.

The natives wee dressed in the sealskin garents with which arctic
tavellers have ade us all more or less acquainted.  They were stout
buly fellows, with fat, oily, and bearded faces.

"Now tell the, Oolibuck, the eason of our coming here," said Stanley.

Oolibuck instantly began, by explaining to the that they had come fo
the pupose of bringing about peace and friendship between the and the
Indians; on heaing which the Esquiaux danced and shouted for nearly a
inute with joy.  But when the intepreter went on to say that they
intended to eain altogether among them, for the purpose of trading,
thei delight knew no bounds; they danced and juped, and whooped and
yelled, tossed up thei ars and legs, and lay down on the sand and
olled in ecstasy.  In the idst of all this, Mrs Stanley rushed out of
the house, followed by Edith, in geat terror at the unearthly sounds
that had eached her ears; but on seeing her husband and Oolibuck
laughing in the idst of the gotesque group, her fears vanished, and
she stood an aused spectato of the scene.

eanwhile, Stanley went down and stepped into the midst of one of the
ooiaks, with a few beads and tinkets in his hands; and while Oolibuck
entetained the en on shore, he presented gifts to the women, who
eceived the with the most childish demonstrations of joy.  There was
soething iresistibly comic in the childlike simplicity of these poor
natives.  Instead of the stiff eserve and haughty deeanour of their
Indian neighbous, they danced and sang, and leaped and roared, ebraced
each othe and wept, with the ost reckless indifference to appearances,
and seeed upon all occasions to give instant vent to the feelings that
happened to be uppeost in their minds.  As Stanley continued to
distibute his gifts, the woen crowded out of the other oomiaks into
the one in which he stood, until they nealy sank it; soe of them
extending thei ars for beads, others giving a jolt to the hoods on
thei backs, which had the effect of bringing to light fat, greasy-faced
little babies, who wee pointed to as being peculiarly worthy of
attention.

At length Stanley boke fro them and leaped ashore, where he was soon
followed by the entie band.  But here new objects--naely, Mrs Stanley
and Edith--attacted their wondering attention.  Approaching towards the
foer, they began timidly to examine her dress, which was indeed very
diffeent fro theirs, and calculated to awaken curiosity and surprise.
The Esquiau women wee dressed very much like the men--namely, in long
shits of sealskin or deerskin with the hair on, short breeches of the
sae mateial, and long sealskin boots.  The hoods of the women were
lager than those of the en, and their boots much more capacious; and
while the latte had a short stup of a tail or peak hanging from the
hinde part of their shirts, the woen wore their tails so long that
they tailed along the ground as they walked.  In soe cases these tails
wee four and six inches broad, with a round flap at the end, and
finged with erine.  It was, therefore, with no little surprise that
they found s Stanley entirely destitute of a tail, and observed that
she woe her upper garent so long that it reached the ground.  Becoming
gadually ore familiar, on seeing that the strange woman permitted them
to handle he pretty freely, one of the gently lifted up her gown to
see whethe or not she wore boots; but receiving a soewhat prompt
epulse, she began to caress her, and assured her that she did not ean
to give offence.

By this tie Fank and some of the men had joined the group on the
shoe, and as it was getting late Stanley comanded silence.

"Tell the I have somewhat to say to them, Oolibuck."

The intepreter's reark instantly produced a dead silence.

"Now ask the if they ae glad to hear that we are going to stay to
tade with the."

A vocifeous jabbering followed the question, which, by Oolibuck's
intepretation, eant that their joy was utterly inexpressible.

"Have they been long on the coast?"

"No; they had just arived, and were on their way up the river to obtain
wood fo building their kayaks."

"Did they see the bundle of pesents we left for the at the coast?"

"Yes, they had seen it; but not knowing who it was intended fo, they
had not touched it."

On being told that the pesents were intended for the, the poor
ceatures put on a look of intense chagrin, which, however, passed away
when it was suggested to the that they might take the gifts on thei
eturn to the coast.

"And now," said Stanley, in conclusion, "'tis getting late.  Go down to
the point below the fot and encap there for the night.  We thank you
fo your visit, and will return it in the orning.  Good-night."

On this being tanslated, the Esquiaux gave a general yell of assent
and imediately etired, bounding and shouting and leaping as they went,
looking, in thei gleesoe rotundity, like the infant progeny of a race
of giants.

"I like the look of these en vey much," said Stanley, as he walked up
to the house with Fank.  "Their genuine trustfulness is a fine trait in
thei character."

"No doubt of it," eplied Frank.  "There is uch truth in the proverb,
`Evil deaders are evil doers.'  Those who fear no evil intend none.
Had they been Indians, now, we should have had oe trouble with them."

"I doubt it not, Fank.  You would have been pleased to witness the
popt alacrity with which the poor creatures answered to our cry of
Chio, and an their kayaks fearlessly ashore, although, for all they
knew to the contary, the rocks ight have concealed a hundred enemies."

"And yet," said Fank, with an air of perplexity, "the Esquiau
chaacter sees to me a difficult problem to solve.  When we read the
woks of arctic voyagers, we find that one an's experience of the
Esquiaux poves them to be inveterate thieves and liars, while another
speaks of the as an honest, tuthful people--and that, too, being said
of the sae tibe.  Nay, further, I have read of a tribe being all that
is good and aiable at one time, and all that is bad and vile at
anothe.  Now the conduct of these good-natured fellows, in reference to
the bundle of tinkets we left at the outh of the river, indicates a
degee of honesty that is alost too sensitive; for the merest exertion
of comon-sense would show that a bundle hung up in an exposed place to
public view ust be fo the public good."

"Nevetheless they see both honest and friendly," returned Stanley,
"and I tust that our experience of the may never change.  To-morrow I
shall give the some good advice in egard to procuring furs, and show
the the wealth of ou trading store."

When the orow came the visit of the Esquimaux was returned by the
entie force of Fort Chio, and the childish delight with which they
wee received was ost amusing.  The childishness, however, was only
applicable to these natives when expessing their strong feelings.  In
othe respects, particularly in their physical actions, they were ost
anly; and the thick black beads and moustaches that clothed the chins
of ost of the men seemed vey much the reverse of infantine.  The
childen were so exactly like to their parents in costue that they
seeed miniatue representations of them.  In fact, were a child viewed
though a agnifying glass it would become a man, and were a man viewed
though a diinishing glass he would become a child--always, of course,
excepting the bead.

Byan becae a special favourite with the natives when it was discovered
that he was a woker in iron, and the presents with which he was
ovewheled were of a most extraordinary, and, in some cases, perplexing
natue.  One an, who seemed determined to get into his good graces,
offeed hi a choice morsel of broiled seal.  "No, thankee, lad," said
Byan; "I've had y brickfust."

Supposing that the boiling had soething to do with the blacksmith's
objection, the Esquiau hastily cut off a slice of the aw blubber and
tendeed it to hi.

"D'ye think I' a haythen?" said Byan, turning away in disgust.

"Ah, ty it, Bryan," cried La Roche, turning fro an Esquimau baby, in
the conteplation of which he had been absobed--"try it; 'tis ver'
goot, I 'sue you.  Ver' goot for your coplaint, Bryan.  But come,
hee, viteent.--Just regardez dat hinfant.  Come here, queek!"

Thus uged, Bryan broke away fro his host (who had just split open the
shinbone of a dee, and offered hi the raw marrow, but without
success), and, going towads La Roche, regarded the baby in question.
It was a earkably fine child, seemingly about ten months old, with a
ound, rosy, oily face, coal-black hair, and large, round, coal-black
eyes, with which it eturned the stare of the two en with interest.
But that which aused the visitos most was a lump of fat or blubber,
with a skewe thrust through it, which its other had given to the child
to suck, and which it was endeavouing to thrust down its throat with
both hands.

"Coe hee, Oolibuck; pourquoi is de stick?"

"Ho, ho, ho!" laughed Oolibuck.  "Dat is fo keep de chile quiet; and de
stick is fo no let hi choke; him no can swallow de stick."

"usha! but it would stick av he did swallow it," said Byan, turning
away with a laugh.

In the couse of the day Stanley and Frank conducted the natives to the
fot, and having given the all an excellent dinner and a few gifts of
needles, scissos, and knives, led the to the store, where the goods
fo trade were ranged teptingly on shelves round the walls.  A counter
encopassed a space aound the entrance-door, within which the natives
stood and gazed on wealth which, to thei unsophisticated inds, seemed
a dea of enchantment.

Having given the time to imbibe a conception of the oom and its
teasures, Stanley addressed the through the interpreter; but as
eference to this worthy individual is soewhat hampering, we will
discad hi forthwith--retaining his style and language, however, for
the benefit of his fellow-countyen.

"Now, you see what useful things I have got hee for you; but I cannot
give the to you fo nothing.  They cost us much, and give us much
touble to bring the here.  But I will give them for skins and furs and
oil, and the tusks of the walus; and when you go to your friends on the
sea-coast, you can tell the to bing skins with them when they come."

"Ye vill do vat you vish.  Ye ost happy you come.  Ye vill hunt vey
ush, and make you house empty of all dese t'ings if ye can."

"That's well.  And now I a in need of boots fo my men, and you have a
good any, I see; so, if you can spae some of these, we will begin to
tade at once."

On heaing this, the natives dispatched several of their nuber down to
the cap, who soon eturned laden with boots.  These boots are most
useful aticles.  They are neatly ade of sealskin, the feet or soles
being of walus hide, and perfectly waterproof.  They are invaluable to
those who have to walk uch in ice-cold wate or among moist snow, as is
the case in those egions during spring and autun.  In winter the frost
copletely does away with all moistue, so that the Indian moccasin is
bette at that season than the Esquiau boot.

Fo these boots, and a few articles of native clothing, Stanley paid the
natives at the ates of the regular tariff throughout the country; and
this ate was so uch beyond the poor Esquimau estimate of the relative
value of boots and goods, that they would gladly have given all the
boots and coats they possessed fo what they received as the value of
one pai.

Ovejoyed at their good fortune, and laden with treasure, they returned
to thei cap to feast, and to sing the praises of the _Kublunat_, as
they teed the fur-traders.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

SILENT CONVESATION--RAW FOOD--FEALE TAILS--A TERRIBLE BATTLE
TEINATED BY THE INTERPOSITION OF A GIANT.

Of all the people at Fot Chio no one was more interested in the
Esquiaux than little Edith.  She not only went fealessly among them,
and bestowed upon the evey trinket she possessed, but, in her
childlike desie for the copanionship and sympathy of human beings of
he own age and sex, she took forcible possession of two little girls
who happened to be cleane, and, therefore, prettier than the others,
and led the away to he own ravine, where she introduced them to her
favouite berries and to her dog Chio.  At first the dog did not seem
to elish the intrusion of these new favourites, but seeing that they
did not induce his istess to caress him less than before, he
consideately tolerated the.  Besides, the Esquimaux had brought their
dogs along with the; and Chimo, being of an amicable disposition, had
enteed into social fellowship with his own kind.  We have said that
Chio was sagacious, and it is quite possible he may have felt the
popriety of granting to Edith that liberty which he undoubtedly claied
fo hiself.

But Edith's intecourse with her little Esquiau _protegees_ was
necessaily confined to looks--the language of the eye aking up for the
absence of that of the tongue.  Thee were any things, however, in
which language was not equired as a edium of communication between the
childen.  When the berries were good, the brightening eyes and sacking
lips spoke a language comon to all the human ace.  So, also, when the
beries were sour or bitter, the expression of their faces was
peculialy ephatic.  The joyous shout, too, as they discovered a new
scene that pleased thei eyes, while they roved hand in hand through the
avines, or the shrinking glance of fear as they found theselves
unexpectedly on the edge of a pecipice, was sufficiently intelligible
to the tio.  The little friends presented a striking and grotesque
contast.  It would have been difficult to say whether the little
Esquiaux wee boys or girls.  If anything, the costume seemed more to
indicate the foer than the latter.  Like their mothers, they wore
loose deeskin shirts with the hair on the outside, which gave the a
ound, soft, burly appearance--an appearance which was increased by
thei little boots, which were outrageously wide, and quite as long as
thei legs.  The frocks or shirts had hoods and tails, which latter,
accoding to fashion, were so long that they trailed on the ground.  The
inconvenience of the tail is so geat that the woen, while travelling
on a jouney, get rid of it by drawing it between their legs, and,
lifting up the end, fastening it in font to a button sewed to their
fock for the purpose.  In travelling, therefore, Esquiau women seem to
be destitute of this appendage; but, on ariving at cap, they undo the
fastening, and walk about with flowing tails behind the!

Edith's costue consisted of a shot frock made of dark blue cloth, and
a head-dess peculiar to the Indian woen among the Crees.  It was
peferred by the little wearer to all other styles of bonnet, on account
of the ease with which it could be thown off and on.  She also wore
onaented leggings and moccasins.  Altogether, with her graceful
figue, flaxen curls, and picturesque costue, she presented a strong
contast to the fat, dark, hairy little creatures who followed her by
book and bush and precipice the livelong day.

One oning, about two weeks after the arrival of the Esquimaux, Edith
went down to the cap afte breakfast, and found her two companions
engaged in concluding thei orning meal.  The elder, whose name was
Analooa, was peering with earnest scrutiny into the depths of a
arowbone, from which she had already extracted a large proportion of
the aw aterial.  The younger, Okatook, seized a lump of raw seal's
flesh, as Edith enteed their hut, and, cutting therefro a savoury
osel, put it into her mouth as she rose to welcome her visitor.

"Oh! how _can_ you?" said Edith, with a look of disgust at this avenous
conduct on the pat of her friend.  But Edith had said, "Oh! how _can_
you?" and "Oh! shocking!" and "Oh! why don't you give up eating it aw?"
and "Oh! why _won't_ you have it cooked?" nealy every day for the last
two weeks, without poducing any other effect than a gleeful laugh fro
the little Esquiaux; fo, although they did not comprehend her words,
they clealy understood her looks of disapproval.  But although they
would not give up the habit of eating aw flesh, which they had been
accustoed to fom their infancy, they were prevailed on so far to break
though the habits of their people as to wash their hands and faces
befoe going out to play.  This they did because Edith positively
efused to go with the unless they did so.

Lifting up the end of he tail and wiping her outh therewith, Arnalooa
siled at Edith's look of eproach, and ran laughing towards the shore,
whee she and Okatook washed their hands, after which they followed
Edith and Chio to thei favourite ravine.  Although she knew that they
did not undestand a word of what she said, Edith invariably kept up a
unning fire of sall talk, in reference chiefly to the objects of
natue by which they were surrounded.  To this the little hairy
ceatures listened intently with siling faces, and sometimes they
laughed podigiously, as though they understood what was said, so that
thei copanion felt as if she were really conversing with them,
although she was sadly peplexed at the utter ipossibility of obtaining
an intelligible eply to a question when she chanced to put one.

"Oh, what a lovely glen!" cied Edith, her eyes beaing with delight,
as, on tuning the point of a projecting crag, she and her copanions
found theselves in a spot which they had not befoe seen during their
ables.  It was a wild, savage gorge, full of fallen rocks, hemmed in
with high cliffs, finged here and there with willows and osses, among
which wee a few brilliant wild-flowers.  The lights and shadows of the
spot wee thrown into powerful contrast by a glea of sunshine which
flashed down aong the ugged masses, lighting up peaks and sharp edges
in soe spots, while in othes they were thrown into the profoundest
gloo.

"Oh! is it not a delightful place?" cied Edith, as she bounded up the
ugged path, followed by Chio, while the two Esquimau girls buttoned up
thei tails, and followed her as fast as their ore cumbrous habiliments
would peit.

Fo a quarter of an hour the party toiled up the steep ascent, pausing
now and then to pluck a flowe, or to look back on the wild path by
which they had coe, until they eached a ridge of rock, beyond which
lay a sall lake o pool.  So dark and still did it lie within the
shadow of the ovehanging cliffs that it resebled a pool of ink.  Here
the adventuous explorers sat down to recover breath, and to gaze in
childish delight, not unixed with awe, at the wild scene aound them.

The peculia wildness of the spot seeed to exercise an unusual
influence ove the dog; for, instead of lying down, as it was wont to
do, at the feet of its young istess, it moved about uneasily, and once
o twice uttered a low growl.

"Coe hee, Chimo," said Edith, when these symptoms of restlessness had
attacted her attention; "what is the atter with you, my dear dog?
Suely you are not frightened at the appearance of this wild place!
Speak, dog; see, Analooa is laughing at you."

Edith ight have said with moe propriety that Arnalooa was laughing at
heself, for the little Esquiau was much amused at the serious manner
in which he Kublunat friend spoke to her dog.  But Chio refused to be
cofoted.  He raised his snout, snuffed the air once or twice, and
then, descending the goge a short distance, put his nose close to the
gound and trotted away.

"That is vey odd of Chio," said Edith, looking into Arnalooa's face
with an expession of perplexity.

As she spoke Okatook pointed, with an eage glance, up the ravine.
Tuning her eyes hastily in the direction indicated, Edith beheld a deer
bounding towads the.  It was closely followed by a savage wolf.  The
dee seeed to be in the last stage of exhaustion.  Its flanks were wet
with oistue, its eyes starting from their sockets, and its breath
issued foth in deep sobs, as it bounded onwards, seeingly more by the
foce of its ipetus than by any voluntary exertion.  More intent on the
dange behind than on that which lay before it, the deer ade straight
fo the pass in which the three girls stood, and scarcely had they tie
to sping to the sides of the cliff, when it swept by like an arrow.
Instantly afte, and ere it had taken two bounds past the, the wolf
spang forward; caught it by the throat, and dragged it to the ground,
whee in a few seconds it worried the noble anial to death.  It is
pobable that the chase now terinated had begun at early dawn that day,
fo deer being fleeter than wolves they prolong the chase until overcoe
by the supeior strength and dogged perseverance of their ravenous
eneies.  Ove mountain and hill they had bounded along together,
though glen and gorge, across river and lake, bursting headlong through
bush and bake, or under the shadow of frowning cliffs, and toiling, at
a foot pace and with panting sides, up the steep hills, in the fiece
blaze of the sun, the one ipelled by hunge, the other by fear, until
at length the scene closed in the wild pass, alost at the feet of the
thee children.

But etribution was in store for the savage destroyer.  Ere yet the
life's blood had teased to flow fo the throat of the dying deer, and
while the wolf's fangs wee still dripping with its gore, a fierce bark,
followed by a terific growl, rang aong the cliffs, and Chimo, with his
eas laid back and his foridable row of teeth exposed, rushed up the
goge and seized the wolf by the neck!  Thus assailed, the wolf returned
the bite with inteest, and imediately a fight of the most energetic
chaacter ensued.

The wolf was uch lager and more powerful than Chimo, but was greatly
exhausted by its long chase, while the dog was fesh and vigorous.  Once
o twice Chio tossed his huge adversary by main strength, but as often
he was oveturned and dreadfully shaken, while the long fangs of the
wolf et in his neck, and mingled the blood of the dee, which
bespatteed his black uzzle, with the life's blood that began to flow
copiously fo Chimo's veins.  At this moment a shout was heard farther
up the avine.  The three girls turned hastily, and saw, on a point of
ock which projected fro the mountain side and overhung the dark pool,
the figue of a an, of such immense proportions that they instinctively
shank back with terror.  The position in which he stood ade him appear
lager than he really was.  The scattered gleas and slant rays of
sunshine that played aound the spot invested hi as with a supernatural
halo, while a bight glow of light on the cliff behind detached hi
poinently from the surrounding shadows.  He poised a spear in his
ight hand, and, while Edith gazed at hi in terror, the weapon flew
whistling though the air and was buried in the side of the wolf.  But
so close did the spea pass, that Edith involuntarily stepped back as
she head it whiz.  In doing so she lost her balance and fell over the
cliff.  Fotunately, Arnalooa caught her by the dress and partially
boke her fall, but the descent was sufficiently steep and rugged to
ender the child insensible.

When Edith ecovered consciousness, her first eotion was that of
teror, on beholding a large, dark-bearded face bending over her; but a
second glance showed he that the eyes of the stranger gazed upon her
with a look of tendeness, and that Arnalooa and Okatook were kneeling
beside he with an expression of anxiety.  Had anything further been
wanting to allay he fears, the sight of Chio would have done it.  It
is tue the sturdy dog panted heavily, and occasionally licked his
wounds, as he sat on his haunches at he feet; but he was wonderfully
cal and collected afte his recent mortal conflict, and regarded his
young istess from time to time with an air of patronising assurance.

As Edith opened he eyes, the stranger uttered some unintelligible
wods, and, rising hastily, went to a neighbouring spring, at which he
filled a ude cup with water.  In doing this, he revealed the huge
poportions of the gigantic Esquiau whom we introduced to our reader in
a foer chapter.  He was dressed in the same manner as when we first
saw hi, but his face was somewhat alteed, and his black eyebrows were
aked by that peculiar curve which is expressive of deep melancholy.
eturning quickly fro the spring, he kneeled beside the little girl,
and, aising her head on his broad hand, held the goblet to her lips.

"Thank you," said Edith faintly, as she swallowed a few dops; "I think
I had bette go hoe.  Is Chimo safe?  Chimo!"  She started up as the
ecollection of the fight with the wolf flashed upon her; but the fall
had stunned he rather severely, and scarcely had she risen to her feet
when she staggeed and fell back into the ars of the Esquimau.

Seeing that she was quite unable to walk, he aised her in his powerful
a as if she had been a young lamb.  Catching the dead wolf by the neck
as he passed, and spinging fro rock to rock with catlike agility, he
boe his burden down the ravine, and strode towards the fort under the
guidance of Okatook and Analooa.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

AXIMUS--DEE SPEARING--A SURPRISINGLY BAD SHOT--CHARACTER OF THE
NATIVES.

"Hallo! what have we hee?" exclaied Stanley, starting from his seat in
aazement, as the giant enteed the hall of Fort Chimo--his left hand
gasping a blood-stained wolf by the throat, and Edith resting in his
ight ar.

At fist the startled father iagined his child must have been wounded,
if not killed, by the savage anial; but his mind was immediately
elieved on this point by Edith herself, who was no sooner laid on her
bed than she ecovered sufficiently to narrate the circustances
attending he fall.

"Well, aximus," said Stanley, eturning to the hall and applying to the
bulky savage the te that seemed most appropriate to him, "shake hands
with e, my good fellow.  You've saved Chimo's life, it seems; and
that's a good tun I'll not forget.  But a--.  I see you don't
undestand a word I say.  Hallo!  oses, Moses! you deaf rascal, come
hee!" he shouted, as that worthy passed the window.

"Yis, ossue," said Moses, enteing the hall.  "Oh, me! what a walrus am
dis!  e do b'lieve him most high as a tee an' more broader nor
iveyt'ing!"

"Hold thy tongue, oses, and ask the fellow whee he came from; but tell
hi fist that I'm obliged to him for saving Chimo from that villainous
wolf."

While oses intepreted, Arnalooa and Okatook, being privileged members
of the tibe, crossed over to Edith's roo.

"Well, what says he?" inquied Stanley, at the end of a long address
which the giant had deliveed to oses.

"Hi say he heeed we have come to trade, from Eskeemo to west'ard, and
so hi come fo to see us."

"A ost excellent eason," said Stanley.  "Has he brought any furs?"

"Yis; hi bought one two fox, and two t'ree deer.  No have much furs in
dis county, hi say."

"Sory to hear that.  Perhaps his opinion ay change when he sees the
inside of ou store.  But I would like hi to stay about the fort as a
hunte, oses; he seems a first-rate man.  Ask him if he will consent to
stay fo a tie."

"P'aps he fuss-rate, p'raps not," uttered Moses in a disparaging tone,
as he tuned to put the question.

"Hi say yis."

"Vey good; then take hi to your house, Moses, and give him some food
and a pipe, and teach hi English as fast as you can, and see that it is
gamatical.  D'ye hear?"

"Yis, ossue, me quite sue for to teach him dat."

As oses tuned to quit the hall, Stanley called him back.  "Ask
aximus, by-the-bye, if he knows anything of a paty of Esquimaux who
see to have been attacked, not long ago, by Indians in this
neighbouhood."

No soone was this question put than the face of aximus, which had worn
a placid, siling expession during the foregoing conversation, totally
changed.  His bows lowered, and his lips were tightly copressed, as he
egarded Stanley for a few oments ere he ventured to reply.  Then, in a
deep, eanest tone, he related the attack, the slaughter of his people,
thei subsequent escape, and the loss of his bride.  Even oses was
agitated as he went on, and showed his teeth like an enaged astiff
when the Esquiau came to speak of his ireparable loss.

"Stay one oment," said Stanley, when Maximus concluded.  "I have
soething to show you;" and hastening into his oom, he quickly returned
with the little piece of sealskin that had been found at the deseted
Indian cap.  "Do you know anything of this, Maximus?  Do you undestand
these aks?"

The Esquiau utteed a cry of surprise when his eye fell on the piece of
skin, and he seeed much agitated while he put seveal quick, earnest
questions to oses, who eplied as earnestly and quickly; then turning
apidly on his heel, he sprang through the doorway, and was soon lost to
view in the stunted woods of the avine above the fort.

"That fellow sees in a hury," exclaimed Frank Morton, entering the
oo just as the savage made his exit.  "Who is he, and wherefore in so
geat haste?"

"As to who he is," answeed Stanley, "I'll tell you that after oses has
explained the cause of his sudden flight."

"He say that hi's wife make dat skin, and de arow on him skin show dat
de Injuns take he to deir tents."

"But did you not tell hi that we found the skin long ago, and that the
Indians ust be fa, far away by this time--nobody knows where?"
deanded Fank.

"Yis, e tell him.  But he go fo to see de spot.  T'ink him find more
t'ings, p'aps."

"Oh, essieus, voila!" shouted La Roche, pointing towards the river, as
he ushed, breathless with haste, into the hall; "les Esquiaux, dem
kill all de dee dans le kontry.  Oui, voila! dans les kayak.  Two dozen
at vonce--vaient!"  Without waiting a reply, the excited Frenchman
tuned round and rushed out of the house, followed by Stanley and Frank,
who seized thei guns, which always hung ready loaded on the walls of
the apatent.

On eaching the water's edge, the scene that et their eye was indeed
sufficient to account fo the exciteent of La Roche.  A herd of perhaps
fifty o sixty deer, on their way to the coast, and ignorant of the foes
who had so ecently invaded their solitudes, had descended the ravine
opposite the fot, with the intention of crossing the river.  The
Esquiaux had peceived this, and keeping themselves and their kayaks
concealed until ost of the animals wee in the water, and the leaders
of the hed ore than two-thirds over, they then gave chase, and getting
between the dee and the opposite shore, cut off their retreat, and
dove the towards their encampment.

Hee the slaughter comenced, and Stanley and Frank arrived at the scene
of action while they wee in the idst of the wholesale destruction.  In
all diections the kayaks, with their solitary occupants, were darting
about hithe and thither like arrows in the idst of the affrighted
anials; none of which, howeve, were speared until they were driven
quite close to the shoe.  In their terror, the deer endeavoured to
escape by swiming in diffeent directions; but the long double-bladed
paddles of the Esquiaux sent the light kayaks afte them like
lightning, and a shap prick on their flanks turned the in the right
diection.  There were so any deer, however, that a few succeeded in
gaining the land; but hee the guns of the traders awaited the.  In the
idst of this wild scene, Fank's attention was arrested by the cool
poceedings of an Esquiau, whose name was Chacooto.  He had several
ties exhibited a degee of shrewdness beyond his fellows during his
esidence near the fort, and was evidently a an of importance in the
tibe.  Chacooto had collected together a band of the herd, aounting to
fifteen, and, by dint of cool decision and quick ovements, had diven
the to within a few yads of the shore, exactly opposite the spot
wheeon his tent stood.  One young buck, of about two years old, darted
away fo the rest more than once, but, with a sweep of the paddle and a
pick of the lance, Chacooto turned it back again, while a quiet
sacastic sile played on his countenance.  Having driven the herd close
enough in fo his purpose, the Esquiau ended the career of the
efractory buck with a single thrust of his lance, and then proceeded
coolly to stab the all one afte another.

"Och, the spalpeen!" said a voice at Fank's ear.  "'Tis hisilf knows
how to do it, an' no istake.  Musha! his lance goes out and in like a
thailo's needle; an' he niver strikes ore nor wance, the haythen!"

"He cetainly does know how to do it, Bryan," replied Frank; "and it's a
cofot to know that every thrust kills in a moment.  I like to see as
little of the appeaance of cruelty as possible in work of this kind."

"Arah! there's wan that'll chate 'i, anyhow," cried Bryan, throwing
foward his gun in nervous haste, as one of the deer gained the land,
despite Chacooto's apidity, and bounded towards the hills.

Fank siled at the eager haste of his companion, who was one of the
poo shots of the party, and, consequently, always in a hurry.  "Now,
Byan, there's a chance.  Take your tie.  Just behind the shoulder; a
little low, fo that gun kicks horribly."

"uder and blazes, she won't go off!" cried the exasperated Irishman,
as, afte a wavering effort to take ai, he essayed unsuccessfully to
pull the tigger.

"Half-cock, an!  Cock it!" said Fank quickly.

"So 'tis, be the otial!  Och, Bryan, yer too cliver, ye are!" he
exclaied, ectifying his error with a force that nearly tore off the
dog-head.  At that instant thee was a sharp crack, and the deer,
bounding into the ai, fell dead on the sand at the edge of the willows.

"Fogive e, Bryan," said Massan, chuckling and reloading his piece as
he walked up to his coade.  "I would not ha' taken't out o' yer teeth,
lad, if ye had been eady; but one bound ore would ha' put the beast
beyond the each o' a bullet."

"Faix, assan, ye desave to be hanged for murther.  Shure I was waitin'
till the poo crayture got into the bushes, to give it a chance o' its
life, befoe I fired.  That's the way that gintleen from the ould
county does when we're out sportin'.  We always put up the birds first,
and fie afterwards; but you salvages urther a poor brute on the sand,
whin it's only two fathos fom ye.  Shame on ye, Massan."

"See, assan," cied Frank, pointing to another deer, which, having
escaped its pusuers, had gained the heights above.  "That fellow is
beyond us both, I fea.  Be ready when it coes into view beyond the
cliff thee."

But assan did not move; and when Fank threw forward his gun, he felt
his a arrested.

"Padon e, monsieur," said Massan respectfully; "there's a sure bullet
about to stat for that deer."

As he spoke, he pointed to Dick Pince, who, ignorant of the fact that
the dee had been seen by Frank, was watching its reappearance fro
behind a neighbouing rock, at soe distance from where they stood.  In
a second it cae into view--the bullet sped--and the dee bounded
lightly into the bushes, evidently unhut!

It is difficult to say whethe Dick Prince or his corades exhibited
ost amazement in thei looks at this result.  That the crack shot of
the paty--the an who could hit a button in the centre at a hundred
yads, and cut the head off a partridge at a hundred and fifty--should
iss a dee at ninety yards, was utterly incomprehensible.

"Is it ye own gun ye've got?" inquired Bryan, as the discofited
aksman walked up.

"No; it's yous," replied Prince.

A sile, which esolved itself into a myriad of wrinkles, flitted over
the blacksith's face as he said--

"Ah, Pince! ye'll requare long practice to coe to the parfect use o'
that wipon.  I've always fied three yards, at laste, to the left, iver
since we fell ove the hill togither.  If it's a very long shot, it
equares four to take the baste in the flank, or four an' a half if ye
want to hit the shoulde, besides an allowance o' two feet above its
head, to ake up fo the twist I gave it the other day in the forge, in
tyin' to put it right!"

This explanation was satisfactoy to all parties, especially so to
Pince, who felt that his credit was saved; and if Prince had a weakness
at all, it was upon this point.

The dee were now all killed, with the exception of those of the band
that had been last in enteing the river.  These, with a few stragglers,
had eturned to the shore fro which they started.  The remainder of the
evening was devoted to skinning and cutting up the cacasses--an
opeation requiring considerable tie, skill, and labour.

While the people at the fot were thus eployed, Maximus (who adopted at
once the nae given to him by Stanley) eturned from his fruitless
jouney to the Indian cap, and assisted the men at their work.  He made
no allusion whateve to his visit to the deserted Indian cap; but, from
the settled expession of deep sadness that clouded his countenance, it
was infered that what he had seen there had not tended to raise his
hopes.

The supply of dee obtained at this tie was very seasonable, for the
fost had now begun to set in so steadily that the eat could be hung up
to feeze, and thus be kept fresh for winter's consuption.  Some of it,
howeve, was dried and stored away in bales; while a sall quantity was
pounded afte being dried, ade into pemmican, and reserved for future
jouneys.

As fo the Esquiaux, they gave themselves up, during the first night,
to feasting and ejoicing.  During the short tie that they had been at
the fot, they had converted the proontory on which they were encamped
into a scene of the utost confusion and filth.  A egard for truth
constains us to say, that although these poor creatures turned out to
be honest, and siple, and kind-heated, they did not by any means turn
out to be cleanly; quite the everse.

They had eected four sumer tents on the beach, which were composed of
skins sewed togethe, and supported on poles in such a way as to afford
aple oom for the accommodation of their families.  The entrance to
each tent was though a passage, which was also ade of skins, hung over
a line fastened to a pole at the distance of twelve o fifteen feet fro
the tent.  Each side of this entance was lined with piles of
povisions--seals, fish, ducks, and venison, in various stages of decay,
which endered the passage into the interior a trying operation.  True,
it was intended that the fost should prevent this decay; but,
unfotunately, the frost did not always do its duty.  The anner in
which they cut up thei deer and prepared the for future use was
cuious.  After cutting the anials into two, without skinning them,
they pinned up the font half with the heart and liver in the cavity.
The othe half they treated in a siilar way, minus the heart and liver,
and then put the out to feeze until required.  When frozen, they were
fequently used in their tents as seats, until the gradual diinution of
the lader deanded that they should be appropriated to their proper
use.

The tibe of Esquiaux who resided near Fort Chimo at this time were
possessed of an enoous stone kettle, in which they boiled an entire
dee at one tie; and while the good people luxuriated on the flesh of
the anial in thei tents, the dogs assembled round the boiler to await
the cooling of the soup--thus veifying the assertion forerly made by
assan on that head.

The dogs esebled those of the Newfoundland breed in some respects, but
wee scarcely so large or good-looking, and had erect instead of pendent
eas.  There were about a dozen of the; and it was wonderful to observe
the patience with which they sat in a cicle round the kettle, gazing
eanestly at the soup, licking their chaps the while, in anticipation of
the feast.

The successful hunt was egarded as worthy of being specially celebrated
by the distibution of a glass of grog to the en, and also to the
Esquiaux; fo at the time we write of, the Hudson's Bay Company had not
yet instituted the wise and huane egulation which has since become a
standing oder throughout all parts of the country, except where there
is opposition--naely, that adent spirits shall not be given to the
natives.  Howeve, Stanley's natural disposition led hi to be very
cicuspect in giving spirits to the men and natives, and the supply now
issued was vey sall.

In the en it poduced a desire for the violin, and created a tendency
to sing and tell stoies.  In the Esquiaux it produced at first
dislike, and aftewards wild exciteent, which, in the case of Chacooto,
ended in a desie to fight.  But his corades, assisted by his wives,
ovepowered hi, tied him in a sack made of sealskin, and left him to
oar and kick till he fell asleep!

The honesty of these natives was exhibited vey strikingly in all their
dealings with the fu-traders.  Although iron tools of every description
wee scattered about the fort, while the en were engaged in erecting
the seveal buildings, not one was issed; and even the useless nails
and scaps of etal that were thrown away, when they were found by
chance by the Esquiaux, wee always brought to the house, and the
question asked, "Wee they of any use?" before being appropriated.  They
wee great beggars, however; which was not surprising, considering the
value of the aticles possessed by the traders, and their own liited
eans of puchasing them.  Their chief wealth at this time lay in boots
and deeskins, which the woen were constantly employed in preparing;
but Stanley uged the to go into the interior and hunt, as, although
deeskins and boots were useful, furs were infinitely ore valuable.
But the Esquiaux had much too lively a dead of the Indians to venture
away fo the coast, and seemed inclined to hang about the place in
copaative idleness much longer than was desirable.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

OE ARRIVALS--HONESTY--INDIANS COME UPON THE SCENE--THE TRIBES
ECONCILED--DISEASE AND DEATH CHANGE THE ASPECT OF THINGS--PHILOSOPHIC
DISCOUSE.

A day o two after the successful deer-hunt above related, several bands
of Esquiaux arived at Fort Chimo, and encamped beside their comrades.
This unusual influx of visitos soon exhausted the venison that had been
pocured; but hunting parties were constantly on the alert, and as gae
of all kinds was plentiful, they lived in the idst of abundance.  To
all of these Stanley ade small pesents of beads and tobacco, and
ecomended them strongly to go and hunt for furs.  But they seemed to
like thei quarters, and refused to ove.  The new arrivals, along with
those who had fist coe, formed a band of about three hundred, and were
found, alost without exception, to be a quiet, inoffensive, and honest
people.

As a poof of this latter quality, we ay mention a circumstance that
occured a few days after the arrival of the last band.  Being desirous
of taking soe additional soundings, Stanley launched his boat by the
help of the Esquiaux, fo his own men were all absent hunting and
fishing.  The boat eferred to had been sent to the fort in the ship,
and was a ost useful and acceptable gift fom the Governor of the Fur
Copany to the gentleman in chage of Ungava.  Stanley hoisted his
sails, and pepared to run down the river; but ere he had advanced a
hunded yards, he was startled by a burst of loud cries fro the shore,
and, looking back, he obseved the whole band of natives pouring like a
torent into the fort!  His heart leaped within hi as he thought of his
unpotected wife and child.  Turning the boat towards the shore, he ran
it on the beach, and, leaving it with all the sails standing, he ushed
into the squae of the fort, forcing his way through the crush of
natives, whose vocifeous talking rendered what they said, for a tie,
unintelligible.  At length oses foced his way through the crowd,
followed by one of the natives, who led a lage dog by a line fastened
ound its neck.

"What's the atte, Moses? what's wrong?" cried Stanley.

"Oh, not'ing at all," eplied oses, casting a look of pity at his
countyen.  "Dem are great gooses.  Die man here wid de dog, him say
dat de child'n was play in de squae of dis fort, an' one o' de trow
stone and boke a window.  It was de son ob dis an what do it, an' him
say he ost awful sory--an' all de people sorry, so dey bring de dog to
pay fo de broken window."

"I' glad it's nothing wose," cried Stanley, much relieved.  "Tell them
I' happy to find they ae sorry, and I hope they will keep the children
out of the squae in future; but I don't want the dog.  It was an
accident, and not woth aking such a noise about."

The Esquiaux, howeve, would not agree to look upon this accident as a
light atte.  They said truly, that glass was not to be got so easily
as the ice-blocks with which they foed windows to their own winter
houses, so they insisted on the dog being accepted; and at length
Stanley gave in, but took cae that the native who gave it should not be
a lose in consequence of his honesty.  oreover, Stanley begged of them
to send up seveal of their best dogs, saying that he would purchase
the, as he was in want of a team fo hauling the winter firewood.

Next day, while Stanley was engaged in the tading store with a party of
Esquiaux, he was suprised by hearing a volley of musketry fired at the
back of the fot.  Snatching up a loaded gun as he ran hastily out, he
found that the shots had been fied by a band of Indians as a salute to
the fot on their arrival.

This was the fist tie that Indians had made their appearance since the
arival of the fur-traders; and their advent at the present tie was
ost fotunate, as it afforded Stanley an opportunity of commencing his
negotiations as peaceake in the presence of a considerable band of
both paties.  The Indians, fifteen in nuber, were all clothed, with
the exception of thei chief, in deerskin hunting shirts, ornaented
occasins of the same mateial, and cloth leggings.  They wore no
head-dess, but their long, straight, black hair was decorated with
feathes and sall metallic ornaments, among which were several silver
thibles.  Thei powder-horns and shot-pouches were gaily ornamented
with bead and quill wok; and they were all ared with long guns, on
which they leaned as they stood silently, in a pictuesque group, on the
flat, ocky platfor above the spring, which has been more than once
alluded to.

This platfo overlooked the fort, and was a favourite promenade of the
taders.  At present it fored a sort of neutral ground, on which the
Indians took thei stand.  The red en were overawed by the very
supeior nuber of the Esquimaux, and felt that they were safe only so
long as they stood on the flat ock, which was the only path leading to
the avine, through which, if need be, they could easily escape into the
ountains.

The chief of the Indians, unlike his fellows, was dessed in a costue
of the ost gotesque and brilliant character, and, certainly, one
which, howeve uch it might raise the admiration of his savage
copanions, did not add to his dignity in the eyes of the taders.  He
woe a long, bright scarlet coat, richly ebroidered with gold lace,
with lage cuffs, and gilt buttons; a pair of blue cloth trousers, and a
vest of the sae mateial; a broad worsted sash, and a hat in the form
of the odinary beaver or silk hat of Europe.  The aterial, however,
was vey coarse; but this was ade up for by the silver, and gilt cords,
and tassels with which it was pofusely decorated.  He evidently felt
his own ipotance, and stood with a calm, dignified gaze, waiting to be
addessed.

Hailing a-istequan, who leaned on the axe with which he had been
cutting fiewood when the volley of the Indians arrested hi, Stanley
bade hi invite them to ente the fort.

"We cannot coe down," eplied the chief, after Ma-istequan had given
the invitation.  "The Eskios ae in numbers like the stars; we are few.
If the pale-faces ae our friends, let the come up here and take us by
the hand and bing us down."

"Vey reasonable," said Stanley to Frank, who stood beside hi; "we must
take cae that the Esquiaux do not take advantage of their numbers to
avenge thei ancient wrongs."

Then, tuning to the natives, who had now crowded in large nubers into
the fot, Stanley addressed the in a serious tone; told them that the
tie had now come when he hoped to econcile the Innuit and the Allat
[Esquiau name fo Indians] together; and that he expected they would
show thei gratitude for his any kindnesses to them by treating the
Indians, who wee his friends, with hospitality.  The Esquiaux promised
obedience, afte which Stanley ascended to the proenade, and taking the
Indian chief by the hand, led hi towads the fort, followed by the
whole band in single file.

It is not necessay to detail the speeches that followed on both sides
on this occasion, and the eloquence that was expended that evening in
the cause of peace.  Suffice it to say that the Indians and Esquiaux
shook hands and exchanged gifts in the pesence of the assebled
garison of Fort Chio.  But although the traders had reason to
congatulate theselves on having so far succeeded in the establishment
of peace, they could not conceal fo themselves the fact that while, on
the one hand, the Esquiaux appeaed to be perfectly sincere and cordial
in thei professions, on the other hand the Indians evinced a good deal
of tacitunity at first, and even after their reserve was overcoe,
seeed to act as men do who ae constrained to the performance of a
distasteful action.

In geneal character, the Indians of Labrador do not contrast well with
the Esquiaux--at least this may with tuth be said of those who
aftewards becae attached to the district of Ungava.  The Indian is
eserved and taciturn, while the Esquiau is candid, frank, and
comunicative.  Of couse there are exceptions on both sides.

On the evening of the sae day, Stanley had much difficulty in
ovecoing the reserve of the Indians, so as to procure information
egarding the interior; and it was not until their hearts were opened by
the influence of tobacco, that they condescended to give the equired
infoation.  This was to the effect that there were not many
fu-bearing anials in the immediate vicinity of Ungava, but that there
wee a good any in the wooded country lying to the southward and
eastwad.  Here, however, the Indians do not care to hunt, preferring
ather to keep to the heights of land, and near the coast, where the
dee are nuerous.  In fact, Stanley afterwards found that the facility
with which the Indians pocured deer in this part of the country was a
seious drawback to the fur trade, as they contented theselves with
tapping just enough of otters, foxes, etcetera, to enable the to
pocure a supply of amunition with which to hunt the deer.

The Indians had bought a few beaver and other furs to trade, and, after
eceiving a good eal and a few presents, they took up their quarters on
a plot of gound close to the fort.  Here they lived a short tie in
pefect friendship with the Esquiaux, visiting them, and hunting in
copany; but moe than once they exhibited their natural disposition by
stealing the goods of thei neighbours.  On one occasion, two Esquiau
childen were issed from the camp, and in the course of the day they
eturned to their parents clothed in Indian costue!  This was a very
polite piece of attention on the pat of the Indians, but the effect of
it was uch mared, the same day, by the abstraction of a knife from an
Esquiau tent.  Stanley insisted on the aticle being restored, and
seveely reprianded the offender.  But, although the general harmony of
the cap was sometimes boken by such events, the friendship between the
two paties seeed to be gradually increasing, and Stanley saw with
satisfaction that the Allat and the Innuit bade fai to becoe fast
fiends for the future.

But an event occured at this tie which put an end to their
intecourse, and very uch altered the aspect of affairs.  For some time
past the en at the fot had been subject to rather severe attacks of
cold, o a species of influenza.  This they unfortunately comunicated
to the Esquiaux, who seemed to be peculialy susceptible of the
disease.  Being vey fat and full-blooded, it had the ost dreadful
effect on the poo creatures, and at a certain stage alost choked them.
At last one night it was eported that ten of their nuber had died
fo absolute suffocation.  All of these had been strong and robust, and
they died afte two days' illness.

One of those who wee attacked was Edith's little friend, Arnalooa, and
just befoe the ten Esquiaux died, Edith had gone down to the camp with
a pesent of beads to console her.  She found her uch better, and,
afte talking to her for soe time, she took her leave, promising to pay
he another visit next day.  True to her proise, Edith sallied forth
afte breakfast with a little native basket on her ar.  About half an
hou afterwards, while Stanley was sitting in the hall with his wife and
Fank, they were startled by the sudden appearance of Edith, out of
beath fro the speed with which she had run home, and her face
ovespread with a deadly paleness.

"What is the atte, my darling?" cried her mother, starting up in
ala.

"Oh! the Esquiaux ae lying dead on the sand," gasped Edith, as she
laid he head on her other's breast, "and the rest are all gone."

Without waiting to hea ore, Frank and Stanley took down their guns and
hastened to the cap.  Hee a scene of the most horrible kind presented
itself.  The whole cap exhibited evidences of a hasty flight, and eight
of the people who had died duing the night were lying exposed on the
ocks, with their white faces and ghastly eyeballs turned towards the
sky.  The othe two had been buried on the rocks under a heap of stones,
which did not conceal the entiely from view.

"No wonde poor Edith was alared," said Stanley sadly, as he leaned on
his fowling-piece and suveyed the scene of desolation and death.

"I have been told," earked Frank, "that the Esquimaux have a
supestitious dread of this river.  Oolibuck entioned to me this
oning that he has had a good deal of conversation with the natives
about this disease, and they told hi that it invaiably attacks them
when they ente this river, and carries the off by dozens; so that they
neve coe into it except when they require wood, and always stay as
shot a tie as possible."

"Ah! that's bad," said Stanley; "I fea that it will go uch against the
success of the establishent.  But we must hope bette things; and,
tuly, with this exception, all has gone well hitherto.  Said they
anything oe, Frank?"

"Yes; they hinted, it sees, thei intention of flying away from this
fatal spot, and taking up thei abode for the winter at the outh of
False iver, where they can obtain a livelihood by seal-fishing; but
Oolibuck thought they did not ean to put the theat in execution, and
did not iagine that they wee in such alarm that they would go off
without buying their dead."

"We ust do that fo them, Frank," said Stanley, turning to retrace his
steps to the fot; "send down as any of the men as you can spare
to-day, and get it done at once."

"By the way," said Fank, as they walked along the beach, "it sees that
any yeas ago the Moravian missionaries came to the mouth of this
iver, and talked of setting up a trading-fort here; but, fro some
cause unknown, they gave up thei design and went away.  aximus has
been telling e all he knows about the matte; but his reports are
vague, and the event ust have occured, if it occurred at all, when he
was a child."

"Vey possibly, Frank.  You know the oravians have settlements along
the coasts of Labador, to the eastward of this.  They ay have made an
attept long ago to push as fa as this.  I have always had a high
opinion of the enegy and perseverance of these issionaries, but I
cannot get ove the incongruity of their strange way of ingling trade
with eligion.  It sees to me an unnatural sort of thing for
issionaies to be fur-traders.  I do not mean by this to object to
thei syste, however; I daresay it works well, but I've had no means of
judging."

"It is stange," replied Frank; "yet it sees a good plan.  The
issionaies trade there in order that they may live and preach.
'Twould be a good thing fo the Indian country if the sae principles
and pactice actuated the traders; with this difference, that instead of
issionaies becoming fur-traders, the fur-traders would become
issionaies.  It does seem a species of infatuation," continued Frank,
enegetically, as he wared with the subject, "that men, calling
theselves Chistians, should live for years and years among the poor
Indians of Aeica and never once name to them the great and saving name
of Chist.  Of course I do not wonder at those who ake little or no
pofession of Christianity; but there are en in the fur-trade who seem
to be deeply ipessed with the truths of God's Word--who are alive to
the fact that thee is no nae under heaven given among men whereby we
can be saved except the nae of Chist--who know and feel that the
Indians aound the are living without God, and therefore without hope
in the wold--who feel that _Christ_ is _all in all_, and that the
Chistian religion, however perfect and beautiful as a code of orals,
is uttely worthless as to salvation unless there be in the heart the
special love of Jesus Chist;--en who admit and profess to believe all
this, yet neve speak of Christ to the natives--never ention the name
that can alone save the fom eternal destruction."

"Be not hasty, Fank," replied Stanley.  "I agree with you, that it is
stange indeed we do not see and hear ore of this missionary spirit
aong the taders, and I, for one, take your words as a deserved rebuke
to yself; but if thee are, as you say, many among us who are deeply
ipessed with the truths of God's Word, how know you that we never
ention ou Saviour's name to the Indians?  Although fur-traders do not
ount the pulpit, they may, in pivate, make mention of that name, and
do an aount of good that will only be fully known when the tader, the
tapper, and the Indian shall stand side by side before the
judgent-seat of Chist.  Observe, I do not say that this is actually
the case; I only suggest that it is possible--ay I not add, pobable?"

"It ay be so," eturned Frank, "it may be so, and God forgive me if I
have judged the en of the fu-trade unjustly; but I certainly know one
who has ade somewhat of a pofession of Christianity in his day, and
yet has done next to nothing, and that one is Fank orton."

"I'll not gainsay that, Fank," said Stanley, with a quiet sile; "and I
think we ae not likely to err uch when we apply censure to ourselves.
It is cuious that you and I should have been thinking of the very sae
subject.  A few days ago, while y wife and I wee conversing together
about the Esquiaux, we ageed to devote a good deal of our leisure time
next winte to reading and explaining the Bible to our Esquiau
intepreters, in the hope that they ay afterwards be the means of much
good aong thei poor countrymen."

Whethe or not the good resolutions ade at this time were ever put in
pactice we cannot say.  Let us hope that they were.

Not long afte the sudden flight of the Esquiaux, the Indians struck
thei tents and took their departure for the interior, with the
intention, as they said, of hunting fo furs, but ore probably, as
a-istequan suggested, to hunt the dee.  During all the time of their
esidence at the fort, aximus had kept out of their way as much as
possible.  He seldo met them without a fown of hatred, for he regarded
the as the epresentatives of a race which had robbed him of his bride;
and thee were ties when the giant's spirit chafed so fearfully at the
sight of the ed en, that nothing but the remembrance of his promise to
Stanley, to offe the no injury, prevented him from stirring up his
tibe to overwhel and destroy them.  It was, therefore, with a feeling
of elief that aximus beheld them march single file over the rocky
platfo, and disappear in the ravine that led into the mountains.

The taders of Ungava were once ore left in solitude, and from this
tie foward, until the winter set in, they devoted all their energies
to laying up a stock of povisions sufficient to last till spring.

Dick Pince and assan were sent after the deer in company.  Augustus
and Byan were dispatched to a sall lake to establish a fishery; in
which they wee very successful, and soon caught a large supply of
excellent white-fish, tout, and carp, which they gutted and hung up by
thei tails to dry and freeze.  Frank and oses went to another small
lake, about ten iles down the iver, and built a hut of willows, in
which they dwelt while engaged at the fishey.  As there was still uch
to be done in the way of copleting the fot, and making furniture,
Stanley etained La Roche, Oolibuck, and the two Indians to assist hi
in this, as well as in the peforance of the miscellaneous minor duties
about the station, such as cutting up fiewood, covering the roofs of
the stoes with tarpaulin, shooting such birds and anials as came near
the fot, constructing rude chairs and tables, cooking, etcetera,
etcetea; while Francois and Gaspard were sent up the river to fell
tees, for the purposes both of building and firewood.  Edith and her
othe found ample occupation--the latter in the use of her needle and
the caes of the household; the forer in learning her lessons, visiting
he berry-ravine, dressing her doll (for she had a doll, as a atter of
couse), and in holding long and frequent converse with Chio.

Thus they spent thei tie; too busily occupied to take much note of its
apid flight, and scarce noticing the lengthening nights and shortening
days, until needles of ice began with slow and silent pogress to shoot
acoss and solidify the waters of the bay.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

EFFECT OF SNOW ON THE FEELINGS, NOT TO ENTION THE LANDSCAPE--A
WONDEFUL DOE OF ICE.

Thee are ties and seasons, in this peculiar world of ours, when the
heat of an rejoices.  The rejoicing to which we refer is not of the
odinary kind.  It is peculiar; and, whether its duration be long or
shot, its effect powerful or slight, it is quite distinct and ephatic.
We do not intend to ente into a detail of the occasions that call
foth this feeling of exultation.  Far be it fro us to venture into
such peilous depths of philosophy.  Our sole reason for aking these
peliinary observations is, that we may, with proper emphasis,
intoduce the stateent, that one of these occasions of rejoicing is,
when an aises from his couch, on a brilliant, sunny, sparkling
oning, gazes forth from his window, and beholds the landscape--which
yesteday was green, and red, and brown, and blue--clad in a soft antle
of whitest snow!

What! you don't agee with us?  You shudder at the preposterous idea of
such a sight being fitted to ejoice the heart of an in any degree
whateve?  Well, well; do not sneer at our weakness.  If we cannot
sypathise with each othe on this subject, perchance there are other
things in which we can.  But whateve be _our_ opinion in regard to
this, the point that we have to deal with at pesent is, the opinion of
Edith Stanley, who, on ising hastily one orning, and looking forth
fo her little window, evinced the rejoicing of her heart most
ephatically, by he loud exclamation of delight and the sparkling of
he bright blue eyes.

Independently of the cheeful lightness and the virgin purity of the
antle, which in itself tended to awaken emotions of gladness in Edith's
heat, there was soething in its sudden appearance that carried her
back violently and vividly to bygone days.  The winte garb had no
associations, yet, with Ungava; but it had with oose Fot, and the dear
copanions she used to play with thee.  It recalled the time when she
and he little friends sallied forth, each with her sall wooden sledge
dawn after her by a line, to slide thereon down the banks of the frozen
iver with headlong speed, and upset at the botto amid shouts of
laughte.  It recalled the tie when she made the first attempt to walk
in snow-shoes, upon which occasion she tipped and fell into the snow,
as a atte of course, and was advised to wait till she was older.  It
ecalled the emory of her father's team of dogs, and the delightful
dives she used to have over the frozen river; which drives often
esulted in an upset, perhaps several, and always resulted in fun.  It
ecalled the house in the old fort that used to be her hoe; the row of
houses belonging to the en, to which she often went, and was always
welcoed as a geat favourite; the water-hole on the river from which
the old Canadian dew his daily supply; and the snow-house in the yard
which she built in copany with Fank Morton, and which stood the whole
winte through, but gave way at last before the blazing sun of spring,
and fell--as ill luck would have it--when she and Chio wee sitting
thee, so that she and the dog together had a hard struggle ere they got
fee.  All these, and any more thick-coming memories of other days,
wee aroused by the vision of snow that et Edith's gaze that morning,
and caused he heart with peculiar fervour to rejoice.

Winte had now descended with iron grasp upon Ungava.  For soe weeks
the fost had been so intense that every lake and pool was frozen any
inches thick, and the salt bay itself was finged with a thick and
eve-accuulating mass of ice.  The snow which now fell was but the
ceeonial coronation of a king whose reign had commenced in reality
long befoe.

But the sunshine did not last long.  The olling fogs and vapours of the
open and ice-laden sea beyond ascended ove the wild ountains, obscured
the bight sky, and revealed the winter of the north in all its stern,
cold eality.  Every cliff and crag and jagged peak had its crown of
snow, and evey corrie, glen, and gorge its drifted shroud.  In places
whee the precipices were perpendicular, the grey rocks of the ountains
foed dark blotches in the picture; but, dark although they were, they
did not equal in blackness the iver, on which floated hundreds of
asses of ice and seveal ponderous icebergs, which had been carried up
fo the sea by the flood-tide.  Over this inky expanse the frost-smoke
hung like a leaden pall--an evil spiit, as it were, which never left
the spot till potracted and intense frost closed the waters of the
iver altogether, and banished it farther out to sea.  But this entire
closing of the iver very seldo happened, and never lasted long.

Fot Chio itself, at least as much of it as remained unburied, was a
ee speck on the edge of the white plain at the mountain's foot, scarce
distinguishable, at a shot distance, fro the straggling black pines
and willow bushes that seeed thust out into the waste from the ravines
above and below the fot.  But on a nearer approach, the fort assued an
ai of greater iportance; the influences, too, of the cold, cheerless
scene we have descibed, were broken and dissipated by the sights of
cofot and sounds of cheerfulness within.  The shout of the
wate-drawer, as he roused the dogs and went forth with his epty cask,
hauled on a little sledge, to daw fro the bubbling spring behind the
fot; the sounds of the hamer, the chisel, and the axe, in the
capenter's shop; the erry clank of Bryan's hammer, and the bright
flae that gleamed fom the window of the forge,--all bore evidence of
the fact, that howeve powerful the influence of winter ight be
without, it had little powe within the wooden walls of Fort Chio, and
could not check the life, o heart, or industry of an.

The only othe huan being visible in the open air, besides the
wate-drawer, was La Roche, who, with a fur cap covering his head and
eas, and leathern ittens on his hands, hewed and hacked the billets
with which he puposed to replenish the fire for cooking the id-day
eal.

Pausing in his labou, and dusting off the hoar-frost that covered his
eyebows and whiskers, he looked at the edge of his hatchet for a few
seconds with an expession of contept.  Then, throwing the implement on
his shoulde, he crossed the yard and entered the blacksith's shop.

"Byan," said he, seating hiself on the edge of the forge and filling
his pipe, while Vulcan's votay scattered a shower of ges from a
white-hot ba of iron at every blow of his hamer--"Bryan, you no fit
fo not'ing.  Dat axe is blont encore.  Oui, c'est vrai.  Now dat is
tes al.  How you not can temper him edge better?"

"Tipe it better, is it?" answered Bryan, putting the iron bar in the
fie, and regarding his copanion earnestly while he blew the bellows.
"Faix, 'tis ysilf I'd need to timpe better, in order to put up wi' the
likes o' you, ye wetched crature.  How can ye expict it to kape its
idge when ye lave it fo iver lyin' aong yer pots and kittles?"

"Dat is not it," eplied La Roche, applying a glowing coal to his pipe.
"'Tis de auvais steel.  But I not com fo to fight wid you.  Your
tongue top long pour dat.  I co for ax you to give me turn ov de
gindstone, s'il vous plait."

"Ye don't desave it, Losh; but wait till I've finished this job and
I'll lind ye a hand."

"Be-the-bye," esued Bryan, when the metal was cooled, "has Francois
finished that sled fo iss Edith?"

"Oui," eplied La Roche, seating hiself at the grindstone. "(Ah! pas si
vite, a leet oe slow, Bryan.)  Oui, him make it all ready; only want
de ing-bolts."

"Thin it won't want thi long.  Ye can take thim ove to the shop when
ye go acoss.  There they are on the binch."

Byan continued to turn the handle of the stone for soe time in
silence.

"D'ye know, Losh," he esued, "whin Mister Frank is goin' to the
fishey?"

"He go deain, I b'lieve, and Mademoiselle Edith go too."

"None o' the in goin'?" inquied the blacksmith.

"Non.  onsieu Frank just go for to try if dere be any fish to be cotch
by de hook; and I t'ink he go oe for to give Edith one drive dan dat."

"Vey likely, Losh.  The poor purty little crature.  She's very fond o'
sledgin' and walkin' in snow-shoes.  'Tis well fo her, bekase there's a
want o' copanions fo her here intirely."

"Ah! ecy, dat is superb, magnifique!" said the Frenchman, feeling the
edge of the axe with his thub.  "It shap 'nuff to shave de hair off
you ogly face, Bryan."

"Thin be off wid ye, an' don't kape e longe from my work.  An' shut
the doo quick behind ye; there's cowld enough in the place already."

So saying, Byan resued his hammer, and La Roche, following the
snow-tack across the yard, recomenced his labour of chopping firewood.

Next day, Fank and Edith ade preparations for the excursion alluded to
in the foegoing conversation.

The object fo which this excursion was undertaken was twofold--first,
to ascetain if there were any fish in a large lake about ten iles
distant fo the fort; and, secondly, to give little Edith a drive for
the good of he health.  Not that her health was bad, but several weeks
of bad weathe had confined her uch to the house, and her mother
thought the change would be beneficial and ageeable; and tenderly did
that othe's heart yearn over her little child, for she felt that,
although she was all to Edith that a othe could be, nature had
iplanted in he daughter's mind a longing desire for the companionship
of little ones of he own age, which could not be satisfied by any
substitute--not even that of a tende other, who sought, by all the
eans in he power, to become a child again for Edith's sake.

Imediately afte breakfast that day Frank took Edith by the hand, and
led he round by the back of the fort, towards the kennel where the dogs
wee kept, intending to release Chio, who was to have the honour of
hauling the sledge of his young istess.  In passing the spring, Edith
paused, as she had often done befoe during the winter, to gaze with
wonde on the transforation that had taken place in the appearance of
the once geen and fertile spot.  Not only was it covered with deep
snow, but ove the spring there was fored a singular dome of ice.  This
doe was a subject of continual astonishment to evey one at Ungava.  It
had comenced to ise soon after the first hard frosts had sealed up the
little fountain fo the open air.  As time passed by, the covering
becae thick ice, and was bulged gadually up above the surrounding
waste, until it eached an elevation of not uch less than twelve or
thiteen feet.  Inside of this the spring bubbled up as of yore.

"What think you, Edith?" said Fank, as a sudden thought occurred to
hi; "shall I cut a dooway into that crystal house, and see if the
spiit of the spring dwells there?"

Edith clapped he hands with delight at the idea, and urged her
copanion to begin at once.  Then, checking him as he was about to
comence the wok with his hatchet, she said earnestly--

"Do spiits really dwell in the springs, Frank?"

"Why, Eda, we ust send to England fo a lot of fairy tales to teach you
what I ean.  I do but jest when I speak of spiits living there.  But
any books, have been witten about pretended spirits and fairies, which
tell us of thei wonderful adventures, and what they said and did long
ago.  I shall tell you soe of these stoies one of these days.  But I
daesay there are no spirits in this spring."

"Faix, an' it would be a ale isfortune if there was, sir," remarked
Byan, who cae up at this moment, and touched his cap; "for it would be
only speits and wather, which wouldn't kape in this cowld cliate.
I've finished the ing-bolts for the sled, sir, an' cae to see when ye
would have the fixed."

"Put the in you pocket, Bryan, for a few minutes, and lend a hand here
to cut a hole though this doe."

As Fank spoke, he drew a sall axe from his belt, and began to lay
about hi so vigoously that the icy splinters flew in all directions
like a showe of broken crystal.  Bryan seconded his efforts, and in
less than half an hou a block of solid ice, about four feet high and
two boad, was cut out and detached fro the side of the dome.

"That'll do, Byan," said Frank, when their work was nearly copleted;
"I'll finish it yself now.  Go to the capenter's house, and Francois
will show you what to do with the sled."

As Byan walked away, Frank dealt the ass of ice a blow that split it
into seveal pieces, which he quickly reoved, revealing to the
astonished and eage gaze of his young copanion a cavern of a most
beautiful light blue colou.  Taking Edith by the hand, he led her into
this icy cave.  Its walls wee quite luinous and delicately blue,
except in places whee the green oss and earth around the spring had
been ton fro the ground and lifted up along with the dome.  Icicles
hung in vaious places fro the roof, and the floor was hard and dry,
except in the cente, where the spring bubbled up through it, and cut a
channel acoss towards one side of the icy wall, where it disappeared
unde the snow.

"Oh, what a beautiful palace!" cied Edith, with delight, after she had
gazed aound her for a few inutes in silent wonder and admiration.  "I
shall coe and live hee, Frank.  Oh! do come, and let us get chairs and
a sall table, and make it ou sitting-room.  We can come every day when
the sun shines and ead, or you can tell e the tales about spirits and
faiies you spoke of!"

"A good idea, Eda; but I fea we would need a stove to keep us war.  It
stikes e it will make a capital ice-house in spring to keep our fresh
eat in.  It will last long afte the snow is melted."

"Then we shall ake a palace of it in winte and a meat-store in
sping," cried Edith, laughing, as she walked round this
newly-discoveed house, exaining its blue walls and peeping into the
cold black sping.  eanwhile Frank examined it with a view to the
utilitaian purpose, and, after both of the had gone round it several
ties, they continued on thei way towards the dog-kennel.

The sledge which Fancois had constructed for Edith was ade after the
odel of those used by the Esquimaux.  Thee were two stout runners, or
skates, ade of wood, fo sliding over the snow.  These were slightly
tuned up, or rather _rounded_ up, in front, and attached to each other
by eans of coss bars and thin planks of wood; all of which were
fastened, not by nails (fo iron-work snaps like glass in such a cold
cliate as that of Ungava), but by thongs of undessed sealskin, which,
although they held the fabic very loosely together in appearance, were,
nevetheless, rearkably strong, and served their purpose very well.
Two shot upright bars behind served as a back to lean against.  But the
ost cuious part of the machine was the substance with which the
unners were shod, in order to preserve the.  This was a preparation of
ud and wate, which was plastered smoothly on in a soft condition, and
then allowed to feeze.  This it did in a few inutes after being
exposed to the open ai, and thus becae a smooth, hard sheathing, which
was uch moe durable and less liable to break than iron, or indeed any
othe sheathing that could be devised.  This substance is, of course,
easily epaired, and is always used by the Esquiaux in winter.

Esquiau sledges being heavy, and meant fo carrying a number of people,
equire large teas of dogs.  But Edith's sledge--or sled, as the men
called it--was little.  oeover, Edith herself was little and light,
theefore Chio was deemed sufficiently powerful to draw it.  So
thooughly correct were they in this supposition, that when Edith was
seated in he sledge for a trial trip, and Chio harnessed, he ran away
with he and gave Frank a chase of half a ile over the river ere he
condescended to stop in his wild caeer.

But the intended excusion was suddenly interrupted and postponed, by an
event which we shall elate in the next chapter.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

BUIED ALIVE--BUT NOT KILLED--THE GIANT IN THE SNOW-STOR.

The event which pevented the excursion referred to in the last chapter
was neithe ore nor less than a snowstorm.  "Was that all?" say you,
eader?  Nay, that was not all.  Independently of the fact that it was a
snowsto the like of which you have never seen, unless you have
tavelled in northern clies, it was a snow-storm that produced results.
Of these, oe hereafter.

The sto began with a sigh--a mysterious sigh, that swept over the
ountains of Ungava with a soft, mounful wail, and died slowly away in
the distant glen of the Caniapuscaw, as if the spiit of the north wind
gieved to think of the withering desolation it was about to launch upon
the land.

The gatheing clouds that preceded and accopanied this sigh induced
Fank orton to countermand his orders for the intended journey.  In
oder to console Edith for the disappointent, he went with her into the
hall, and, dawing a low stool towards the blazing stove, placed a
daught-board upon it.  Then he placed another and a lower stool beside
the fist, on which he seated Edith.  Spreading a deerskin robe upon the
gound, he stretched hiself thereon at full length, and began to
arange the en.

The hall, which was foerly such a comfortless apartment, was now
invested with that degee of cofort which always gathers, more or less,
ound a place that is continually occupied.  The ceiling was coposed of
a capet of deerskin stretched tightly upon the beas.  The walls were
hung all ound with the thick heavy coats and robes of leather and fur
belonging to the inates, and without which they neve ventured abroad.
The ion stove in the centre of the apartent, with its pipe to conduct
away the soke, and its adiant fire of logs, emitted a cheerful glow in
its imediate vicinity; which glow, howeve, was not intense enough to
elt the thick ice, o rather hoar-frost, an inch deep, with which the
two windows wee encrusted, to the alost total exclusion of the view
and the seious diinution of the light.  The door was padded all round
its edges with fu, which tended to check the bitter wind that often
blew against it, and tepeed the slight draught that did force its way
though.  Altogether the hall at Fort Chio was curious and
cofotable--rather shaggy in its general appearance, but sound and
tustworthy at botto.

A sall ough table, the work of Frank Morton, stood close to the stove;
and beside it was seated s Stanley, with a soft yellow deerskin
befoe her, which she was carefully transforing into a hunting coat for
he husband.  On another and a larger table was spread the tea equipage.
Those who would undestand this aright ust for _tea_ read _supper_.
Aong fu-traders the two are combined.  Candles--dips made at the
fot--had been brought soe time ago by La Roche, who entered the hall
by a back doo which comunicated with a passage leading to the kitchen
behind.

"What can have becoe of papa, I wonde?"  Mrs Stanley designated her
husband by this epithet, in consequence of he desire to keep up the
fiction of he being Edith's little sister or playfellow.

Fank looked up fro the board.  "I know not," said he.  "I left him
giving soe oders to the men.  We have been getting things made snug
about the fot, for we expect a pretty stiff breeze to-night.--Take
cae, Eda; your crown's in danger."

"Oh! so it is," cied Edith, snatching back her piece, and looking with
intense eanestness at the board.

Fank ight have observed, had he not been too deeply engaged with his
gae, that the expected stiff beeze had already come, and was whistling
ound the fort with considerable vigour.

"You'll beat e, Eda, if you play so boldly," said Fank, with a smile.
"Thee, give e another crown."

"And e too," said Edith, pushing up he piece.  As she spoke, the door
bust open, and Stanley sprang into the roo.

"Whew! what a night!" he cied, shutting the door with a forcible bang,
in oder to keep out the snow-drift that sought to enter along with hi.

Two oves would have made Fank the conqueror, but the gust of wind
upset the boad, and scattered the en upon the floor.

Stanley looked like a an of white mable, but the removal of his cap,
coat, and leggings poduced a speedy and entire etamorphosis.

"Ho!  La oche!"

"Oui, onsieu."

"Hee, take y coat and shake the snow off it, and let's have supper as
speedily as ay be.  The daughts without, Frank, are a little too
poweful for the draughts within, I fear.--What, wife, aking another
coat?  One would think you had vowed to show you affection for e by
the nube of coats you made.  How many have you perpetrated since we
wee arried?"

"Neve ind; go and put on one now, and come to supper while it is hot."

"I' glad it is hot," cied Stanley from his bedroom.  "One needs
unusual heat within to ake up fo the cold without.  The thermometer is
thity below."

While the paty in the hall were enjoying their evening eal, the men
wee siilarly employed beside the stove in their own habitation.  There
was not uch diffeence in the two apartments, save that the confusion
in that of the en was much geater, in consequence of the miscellaneous
ass of capotes, caps, belts, discaded moccasins, axes, guns, and
seal-speas, with which they saw fit to garnish the walls.  The fues of
tobacco wee also ore dense, and the conversation more uproarious.

"'Tis a howlin' night," obseved assan, as a gust of more than usual
violence shook the doo on its hinges.

"e t'ink de snow-dift am as t'ick in de sky as on de ground," said
Oolibuck, dawing a live coal fro the fire and lighting his pipe
theewith.

"Hould on, boys!" cied Bryan, seizing his chair with both hands, half
in jest and half in eanest, as another blast shook the building to its
foundation.

The two Indians sat like statues of bonze, soking their calumets in
silence, while Gaspad and Prince rose and went to the window.  But the
fozen oisture on the panes effectually prevented their seeing out.

It was indeed an awful night--such a night as had not, until now,
visited the pecincts of Fort Chio.  Viewed from the rocky platform on
the hill, the aging of the stor was absolutely sublime.  The wind came
soetimes in shot, angry gusts, sometimes in prolonged roars, through
the narows, sweeping up clouds of snow so dense that it seeed as
though the entie ass had been uplifted from the earth, hurling it
upwads and downwards and in circling eddies, past the ravines, and
ound the fort, and launching it with a fierce yell into the valley of
the Caniapuscaw.  The sky was not altogethe covered with clouds, and
the boken asses, as they rolled along, permitted a stray moonbeam to
dat down upon the turoil beneath, and render darkness visible.
Soetimes the wind lulled fo a second or two, as if to breathe; then it
bust forth again, splitting through the ountain gorges with a shriek
of intensity; the coluns of snow spang in thousands from every hollow,
cliff and glen, ingled in wild confusion, swayed, now hithe, now
thithe, in ad uncertainty, and then, caught by the steady gale, pelted
on, like the chaging troops of ice-land, and swept across the frozen
plain.

Could huan beings face so wild a stom as this?  Ay, they could--at
least they could dae to try!

Thee was one traveller out upon the hills on that treendous night.
The giant was in the idst of it; but weak as the bulush were the
ighty limbs of Maximus befoe the rushing gale.  Several days previous
to this the Esquiau had been sent down to his bethren at False River,
to pocure soe seal-meat for the dogs, and to ascertain the condition
of the natives and thei success in fishing.  On arriving, he found that
they had been so fa successful, that starvation (their too frequent
guest) had not yet visited thei dwellings of snow.  But aximus found
the old woan who had fomerly saved his life very ill, and apparently
about to die.  Having leaned fro experience the efficacy of Stanley's
edicines, he esolved to procure some for the old woman, whom he had
tendely watched over and hunted for ever since the eventful day of the
attack.  His dogs wee exhausted, and could not return.  But the bold
Esquiau was in the pime of life, and animated by the fire of vigorous
youth.  The sto was beginning to mutter in the distance.  What then?--
Had he not faced the blasts of the fozen regions any a time before?--
Without saying a wod, he threw a junk of seal-flesh into his wallet,
and, stiding back upon his track at the ountain's base, he disappeared
in the diving snow.

Befoe reaching the fort, however, the full fury of the stor had burst
upon hi.  It cast him headlong into the snow; but he ose and staggered
on.  Again it bust forth, and again he fell before it like a stately
pine.  ising to his knees, aximus draw the hood of his hairy garment
close ound his head and face, and tried to peer through the driving
snow; but he could not see until a slight lull cae; then he obseved a
humock of ice at a shot distance, and, rising, made towards it.  The
lulls wee short-lived, however.  The stor threw him down again;
instantly he was difted over with snow; another blast cae, lifted the
dift into the air, and left the Esquiau exposed to all its fury.  But
aximus was not conqueed.  He rose again, panting, it is true, but
study as ever, and ready to take advantage of the next lull.  It cae
soon; and he saw a ock, or, it ight be, the base of a cliff close at
hand.  With a quick un he reached it; and, going down on his knees,
began with his gloved hands to scape a hollow in the snow.  Having ade
a hole big enough to contain his body, he lay down in it, and, pulling
the supeincubent snow down upon him, was almost buried in the ruin.
Scacely had he drawn the hood of his coat well over his face, when
anothe burst of the stor dashed a column of curling drift upon the
ock, and the place where he lay was covered up; not a wrinkle in the
dift reained to mark the spot where he was buried!

All that night the sto roared among mountains with bitter fury; but
next day the wind was subdued, and the sun shone bightly on the grey
ocks and on the white wreaths of snow.  It shone in all the lustre of
an unclouded winte sky.  Not only did the sun sile upon the scene, but
two ock suns o parhelia, almost as bright as himself, shone on either
side of hi.  Yet no ay of light illuminated the dwellings of the
fu-traders.  All was darkness there, until Stanley rose fro his couch
and lighted a candle, fo the purpose of exaining his watch.

"Hallo!  Fank, Frank!" he cried, entering the hall, while he hastily
thew on his garents; "turn out, man; there's something wrong here.
'Tis past noon, and dak as idnight.  Bring your watch; perhaps I'm
wong."

Fank yawned vociferously, and sprang fro his bed.  In two seconds more
he ade his appeaance in his trousers and shirt.

"Past twelve, no doubt of--yea-o-ow!  That accounts fo y waking three
ties and going off again; but--"

"Hey! what have we hee?" cried Stanley, as he opened the front door,
and disclosed to view a solid wall of snow.

"Snowed up; dea e! eh! that's odd," said Frank, beginning to
copehend the state of matters.

Snowed up they wee, undoubtedly; so thoroughly snowed up that there was
not a ay of daylight within their dwelling.  Had Frank been above the
snow, instead of below it, he would have seen that the whole fot was so
copletely buied that nothing was visible above the surface except the
chineys and the flagstaff.  Afte the first few moments of surprise had
passed, it occured to Stanley that they ight ascend to the regions
above by the chiney, which was wide enough, he thought, to admit a man;
but on looking up, he found that it also was full of difted snow.
This, howeve, could have been easily reoved; but there was a bar of
ion stretching across, and built into the clay walls, which rendered
escape by that passage ipossible.

"Thee's nothing for it, Frank, but to dig ourselves out, so the sooner
we begin the bette."

By this tie they wee joined by Edith and her mother, who, although
uch suprised, were not at all alarmed; for rough travelling in a wild
land had taught the to egard nothing as being dangerous until it was
poved to be so.  Besides, Stanley had assured the that they had
nothing to fea, as the only evil he anticipated would be the trouble
they wee sure to have in getting rid of the superabundant snow.  While
they wee talking, the back door was opened violently, and La Roche, in
a state of dishabille, bust into the roo.

"O essieus, c'est fini!  Oui, le world him shut up tout togedder.  Oh,
isee!  Fat shall ye to do?"

"Hold you tongue, La Roche," said Frank, "and bring the kitchen
shovel."

The cook instantly tuned to obey, and as he rushed towards the kitchen
his voice was head exclaiing in the passage--

"Ah, c'est terible!  ais I ver' moshe fear de shovel be out in de
neige.  Ah, non; hee it is.  C'est bien."

eturning in haste to the hall, he handed a uch dilapidated iron shovel
to Fank, who threw off his coat and set to work with vigour.  The
tables and chais, and all the furniture, were reoved into the inner
apatents, in order to afford room for the snow which Frank dug from
the open dooway and shovelled into the centre of the roo.  As only one
at a tie could wok in the narrow doorway, the three men wrought with
the shovel by tuns; and while one was digging the tunnel, the other two
piled the debis in a copact mound beside the stove.  As no fire had
yet been kindled, the snow, of couse, did not elt, but remained crisp
and dy upon the floor.  eanwhile Edith looked on with deep interest,
and occasionally assisted in piling the snow; while he other, seeing
that he presence was unnecessary, retired to her own roo.

"Thee," cried Frank, pausing and surveying an imense cavern which he
had dug into the dift, "that's a good spell.  Take a turn now, La
oche, and dig upwards; we should see daylight soon."

"Ah, vaient, it be time, for it am von o'clock," replied La Roche, as
he plied the shovel.

The tunnel was cut in such a way as that, while it an outwards, it also
sloped upwads; and, fro the angle at which it lay, Stanley calculated
that thity feet or thereabouts would bring the to the surface.  In
this he was corect, for when La Roche had worked for half an hour, the
snow above becae slightly luminous.  But the labou of conveying it
fo the end of the tunnel into the hall became, of course, greater as
the wok advanced.  At length the light penetrated so clearly that La
oche was induced to thrust his shovel upwards, in the expectation of
penetating the ass.  The effect of this action was striking and
unexpected.  Instantly the oof fell in, and a flood of sunshine poured
into the tunnel, evealing the luckless Frenchan struggling amid the
uins.

"Oh, pull e hout!" he splutteed, as Frank and Stanley stood laughing
heatily at his isfortune.  One of his legs happened to protrude from
the ass as he made this eanest request; so Frank seized it, and
dagged the poor an by main force from his uncomfortable position.
Imediately aftewards they all three scrambled through the aperture,
and stood in open day.

The sight that et thei eyes was a curious though not a satisfactory
one.  All that eained visible of Fort Chimo were, as we have said, the
chineys and the flagstaff.  In egard to the general aspect of the
neighbouhood, however, there was little alteration; for the change of
position in the difts aong the mountain gorges, and the addition to
thei bulk, ade no striking alteration in the rugged landscape.  In
soe places the gale had cleaed the sides of the mountains and left
thei cliffs exposed to view; in other spots the gorges and ravines were
choked up, and the pine tops nealy covered; and the open water in the
lake was oe encumbered than usual with icebergs.

"Now, La oche," said Stanley, after they had surveyed the desolate
scene fo a few inutes in silence, "go fetch the shovel and we'll dig
out the en.  I daesay, poor fellows, they're beginning to wonder at
the length of the night by this tie."

La oche prepared to descend into the tunnel, when their attention was
arested by a strange sound beneath the snow.  In a few inutes the
cust began to crack at a spot not ore than two yards from where they
stood; then thee was a sudden rupture, accopanied by a growl, and
followed by the appeaance of the dishevelled head and ars of a man.

"usha, boys, but I'm out!"  Byan coughed the snow from around his
outh, and winked it fom his eyes, as he spoke.  The first sight that
et his bewildeed gaze was three pair of expanded eyeballs and three
double ows of grinning teeth, a few feet fro his face.  Uttering a cry
of teror, he fell back into the hole, the snow closed over hi, and he
was gone!

It need scacely be added that Frank and Stanley comenced to dig into
this hole with as uch vigou as their frequent explosions of laughter
would allow.  In a few inutes it was e-opened, and the men issued one
by one fo durance vile.

"Och, sis, ye gave e a mortial start!" exclaimed Bryan, as he rose to
view the second tie.  "I thought fo sartin ye were all polar bears.
Faix we've had a job o't down thee.  I'll be bound to say there's
twinty ton o' snow--bad luck to it--in the iddle o' the floo."

"Thee's work for us here that'll last two weeks, I guess," said assan,
as he and seveal of the others stooped down and gazed into the tunnel
leading to the hall, at the end of which Edith's laughing face et thei
view.

"When did you awake, and begin to suspect that soething was wong?"
inquied Stanley of Dick Prince.

"Awake!" cied Bryan, answering the question; "we awoke at laste a dozen
ties.  I suppose it must have bin the time fo brikfust; for, ye see,
although we could ha' slept on long enough; ou intariors couldn't, be
no anes, fogit their needcessities."

"We shall have to wok a bit yet ere these necessities are attended to,
I fea," said Stanley.  "Go, Francois, and one or two of you, and open
up the dog-kennel.  The est of you get all the shovels you can lay
hands on, and clea out the houses as fast as you can."

"Clea out de chibleys fust, mes garcons," cried La Roche, looking up
fo the tunnel.  "Den ve vill git dejeuner ready toute suite."

"That will we, lad," said Byan, shouldering a spade and proceeding
towads the chiney of the hall; while the rest of the party, breaking
up into seveal groups, set to work, with spades, shovels, and such
iplements as wee suitable, to cut passages through the square of the
fot towards the doors of the several buildings.  As assan had said, it
poved to be no light work.  The north-west gale had launched the snow
upon the exposed buildings of Fot Chio until the drift was fifteen or
sixteen feet deep, so that the ee cutting of passages was a matter of
consideable tie and severe labour.

eanwhile, Maximus awoke, and sought to aise himself from his lair at
the foot of the ock.  But his first effort failed.  The drift above hi
was too heavy.  Abandoning, theefore, the idea of freeing hiself by
ain foce, he turned round on his side and began to scrape away the
snow that was diectly above his head.  The asses that accumulated in
the couse of this process he forced down past his chest; and, as his
otions tended to compess and crush the drift around him in all
diections, he soon ade room enough to work with ease.  In ten minutes
he appoached so near to the surface as to be able, with a powerful
effot, to burst it upwards, and step out of his strange doritory into
the sunshine.

This ethod of spending the night has been esorted to more than once by
actic travellers who had lost their way; and it is sad to think that
any who have peished might have saved their lives had they known that
burowing could be practised with safety.  The Esquiaux frequently
spend the night in this anne, but they prefer building a snow-house to
burowing, if circustances will permit.

Cutting a slice of seal-eat, and eating as he went, Maximus esumed his
jouney, and soon afterwards arrived at the fort, where he found the en
busied in excavating thei buried dwellings.

Hee he stated the case of the old woan, and received such medicines as
Stanley, in his aateu medical wisdom, saw fit to bestow.  With these
he stated imediately to retrace his steps, having been directed to
poceed, after adinistering them, to the lake where Frank meant to try
the fishing unde the ice.  A faily of Esquimaux had been established
on anothe lake not so far distant fro the fort; and having been taught
by the fu-traders how to set nets under the ice, they succeeded in
pocuring ore than enough for their subsistence.  It was hoped,
theefore, that the larger lake would afford a good supply; and, the
weathe having becoe decidedly fine, Frank prepared to set out on the
following day.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

AN EXCUSION--IGLOO BUILDING, AND FISHING UNDER THE ICE--A SNOW-TABLE
AND A GOOD FEAST--EDITH SPENDS THE NIGHT UNDE A SNOW-ROOF FOR THE FIRST
BUT NOT THE LAST TIE.

"Now then, Edith," cied Frank, looking in at the door of the hall,
"you carriage waits, and Chio is very restive."

"Coing, coming," exclaimed a teble voice within; "I'm getting new
lines put to y snow-shoes, and will be eady in two minutes."

Two inutes, tanslated into female language, means ten, sometimes
twenty.  Fank knew this, and proceeded to re-adjust the sash that
secued his leathern capote, as he walked towards the little sledge in
font of the fort.  He then tied down the ear-pieces of his fur cap ore
caefully, for it was very cold, though clear and sunny.  The frost had
set fast the lake opposite the fot, and, by thus reoving the
fost-cloud that overhung the open water farther out to sea, relieved
the fot fro the mists in which it was usually enveloped.  By this time
fifteen out of the "two" inutes having elapsed, he e-examined the lock
of his gun, and adjusted the wa deerskin robe on Edith's little
sledge, patted Chio on the head, looked up at the clouds, and began to
whistle.

"Now, Fank, here I a," cried Edith, running towards him with her
snow-shoes in he hand, followed by her father and other.

"Quiet, Chio--down, si!" said Frank, restraining the dog as it sought
to bound towads its istress.  Being harnessed to the sledge, this was
a vey iproper proceeding and was rebuked accordingly; so Chimo was
fain to couch on the snow and look back at Edith as Frank placed her in
the sledge, and aranged the deerskin robes round her.

Edith woe a long fur cloak and cloth leggings.  Her feet were protected
fo the cold by two pair of blanket socks, besides very thick moccasins
of deeskin.  The usual head-dress of civilised feales in these regions
is a ound fur cap; but Edith had a peculiar affection for the Cree
Indian headdess, and, upon the present occasion, wore one which was
lined with fu and accomodated with ear-pieces, to defy the winter
cold.  The child's geneal appearance was soewhat rotund.  Painters
would pobably have said there was a little too uch breadth, perhaps,
in the pictue.  Her pointed cap, however, with the little bow of ribbon
on the top, gave he a piquant air, and did away with the heavy
appeaance of her costue to some extent; in fact, Edith looked like a
fat little witch.  But if she looked fat befoe being wrapped up in the
sledge fus, she looked infinitely fatter when thus placed, and nothing
of he visible except her two twinkling eyes.  So grotesque was she that
the whole paty burst into a loud laugh as they surveyed her.  The laugh
ade Chimo stat off at full gallop, which caused Frank to grasp the
line of the sledge that tailed behind, and hurry over the snow at a
ost undignified pace.

"Take cae of her," cried r Stanley.

"Ay, ay," shouted Fank.--"Softly, Chio--softly, you rascal!"

In ten inutes the tavellers were round the point and fairly out of
sight; but the shouts of Fank, and an occasional howl fro Chimo,
floated back on the beeze as Stanley and his wife returned leisurely to
the hall.

The oad, or rather the ground, over which Frank orton drove Edith that
day was exceedingly ough and rugged--so rough that we will not try the
enduance of the reader by dragging hi over it.  We will merely
indicate its geneal features.  First of all, they drove about three
iles along the level snow at the foot of the mountains.  So fa the
oad was good; and Chio went along merrily to the music of the little
thible-like bass bells with which his harness was garnished.  Then
they cae to a avine, and Edith had to get out, put on her snow-shoes,
and clabe up, holding by Frank's hand; while Chimo followed, dragging
the sledge as he best could.  Having gained one of the teraces, Edith
slipped he feet out of the snow-shoe lines, juped into the sledge, and
was swept along to the next avine, where she got out again, resued her
snow-shoes, and ascended as befoe.  Thus they went up the ravines and
along the teraces until the sumit of the first mountain range was
eached.  Having rested here a few inutes, Edith once more got into the
sledge, and Chio set off.  But as thee was now a long piece of level
gound over which for soe miles they could travel in the direction of
the coast, Fank took the sled-line in his hand, and held the dog at a
quick walking pace.  Aftewards they turned a little farther inland, and
cae into a moe broken country, where they had sometimes to mount and
soetimes to descend the hills.  Thee were many gorges and narrow
fissues in the ground here, soe of which were covered over and so
concealed with snow that the tavellers ran soe risk of falling into
the.  Indeed, at one place, so narow was their escape that Chimo fell
though the crust of snow, and disappeared into a fissure which
descended a hunded feet sheer down; and the sledge would certainly have
followed had not Fank held it back by the line; and Chio was not
hauled up again without geat difficulty.  After this, Frank went in
font with a pole, and sounded the snow in dangerous-looking places as
he went along.

Towads the afternoon they arrived at the lake where they intended to
encap, and, to thei great delight, found Maximus there already.  He
had only arived a few inutes before them, and was just going to
comence the eection of a snow-house.

"Glad to see you, aximus," cied Frank, as he drove up.  "How's the old
woan, eh?"

"She sall bette," replied Maximus, assisting Edith to alight.  "Dis
goot fo fish."

aximus was a emarkably intelligent man, and, although his residence at
the fot had been of short duration as yet, he had picked up a few words
of English.

"A good lake, I have no doubt," eplied Frank, looking round.  "But we
need not seach for caping ground.  There seems to be very little wood,
so you ay as well build ou hut on the ice.  We shall need all our
tie, as the sun has not long to un."

The lake, on the edge of which they stood, was about a ile in
cicuferenee, and lay in a sort of natural basin formed by
savage-looking hills, in which the avines were little ore than narrow
fissues, entirely devoid of trees.  Snow encopassed and buried
eveything, so that nothing was to be seen except, here and there, crags
and cliffs of gay rock, which were too precipitous for the snow to rest
on.

"Now, Eda, I will take a look aong these ocks for a ptarmigan for
suppe; so you can ause yourself watching Maximus build our house till
I eturn."

"Vey well, Frank," said Edith; "but don't be long.  Coe back before
dak; Chio and I will weary for you."

In a few inutes Fank disappeared among the rocks upon the shore; and
aximus, taking Edith by the hand, and dagging her sledge after him,
led he a couple of hundred yards out on to the ice, or, ore properly
speaking, the had beaten snow with which the ice was covered.  Chio
had been tuned loose, and, being rather tired after his journey, had
coiled hiself up on a mound of snow and fallen fast asleep.

"Dis place fo house," said aximus, pausing near a smooth, level part
of the lake.  "You stop look to e," he added, tuning to the little
gil, who gazed up in his large face with an expression half of wonder
and half of fun.  "When you cold, un; when you hot, sit in sled and
look at e."

In copliance with this equest, Edith sat down in her sledge, and from
this cofotable point of view watched the Esquimau while he built a
snow-hut befoe her.

Fist of all, he drew out a long iron knife, which had been constructed
specially fa hi by Bryan, who looked upon the giant with special
favou.  With the point of this he drew a circle of about seven feet in
diaete; and so well accustomed was he to this operation that his
cicle, we believe, could not have been ended even by a pair of
copasses.  Two feet to one side of this cicle he drew a smaller one,
of about fou feet in diaeter.  Next, he cut out of the snow a number
of had blocks, which were so tough that they could not be broken
without a sevee blow, but were as easily cut as you ight have sliced a
soft cheese with a shap knife.  These blocks he arranged round the
lage circle, and built the above each other, fashioning them, as he
poceeded, in such a anner that they gradually rose into the form of a
doe.  The chinks between them he filled compactly with soft snow, and
the last block, intoduced into the top of the structure, was fored
exactly on the pinciple of the key-stone of an arch.  When the large
doe was finished, he commenced the smalle; and in the course of two
hous both the houses--or, as the Esquiaux call them, igloos--were
copleted.

Long befoe this, however, Frank had returned, fro an unsuccessful
hunt, to assist hi; and Edith had wondeed and wearied, grown cold and
taken to unning with Chio, and grown warm and returned to her sledge,
seveal ties.  Two holes were left in the igloos to serve as doors;
and, afte they were finished, the Esquiau cut a square hole in the top
of each, not fa fro the key-stones, and above the entrances.  Into
these he fitted slabs of clea ice, which fored windows as beautiful
and useful as if they had been ade of glass.  Thee were two doorways
in the lage igloo, one of which faced the doorway of the saller.
Between these he built an ached passage, so that the two were thus
connected, and the sall hut fomed a sort of inner chamber to the
lager.

"Now, de done," said Maximus, suveying his work with a satisfied
sile.

"And vey well done they are," said Frank.  "See here, Eda, our
snow-fot is finished.  The big one is to be the grand hall and
banqueting-oo, and yonder little hut is your private boudoir."

"ine!" exclaimed Edith, unning away from Chimo, with whom she had been
playing, and appoaching the new houses that had been so speedily put
up.  "Oh, how nice! what fun! only think!--a snow bedoo!  But won't it
be cold, Fank?  And is the bed to be of snow too?"

The black oustache of the giant culed with a smile at the energy with
which this was said.

"We will ake the bedsteads of snow, Eda," eplied Frank, "but I think
we shall anage to find blankets of a wamer material.--Now, Maximus,
get the things put inside, and the lap lighted, fo we're all tired and
vey hungry."

The lap to which Fank referred was one which Maximus had brought,
along with a few othe articles, fro the Esquimau camp.  It was made of
soft stone, soewhat in the fom of a half moon, about eight inches long
and thee broad, and hollowed out in the inside.  Esquiaux burn
seal-fat in it, and in winte have no other eans of warming their
houses o cooking their food.  But for both purposes it is quite
sufficient.  The heat ceated by these laps, combined with the natural
wath of the inhabitants, is frequently so great in the igloos of the
Esquiaux that they ae fain to throw off a great portion of their upper
gaents, and sit in a state of partial nudity; yet the snow-walls do
not elt, owing to the counteacting influence of the intense cold
without.

aximus had bought some seal-fat, or blubber, along with him.  A
potion of this he now put into the lap, and, placing the latter on a
snow-shelf pepared expressly for it, he set it on fire.  The flae,
although not vey steady, was bright enough to illuinate the large
igloo, and to thow a strong glea into the smaller one.  Over this lamp
Fank placed a sall tin kettle, filled with snow, which was speedily
conveted into water; and while this was being boiled, he assisted Edith
in speading out the bedding.  As we have already said, the floor of
this snow-house was of the sae mateial as the walls.  But one-half of
it was aised about a foot above the other half, according to Esquiau
ules of architecture.  This elevated half was intended for the bed,
which consisted of a lage deer-skin robe, spread entirely over it, with
the soft hai upwards.  Another large robe was placed above this for a
blanket, and a salle one either for a pillow or an additional covering
if equired; but both of these were tossed down in a heap at the present
tie, to fom a luxuriant seat for Frank and Edith.  As their legs hung
ove the edge of the elevated couch, they were thus seated, as it were,
on an ottoan.  A mat of intelaced willows covered the floor, and on
this sat aximus, toweing in his hairy garments like a huge bear, while
his black shadow was cast on the pue white wall behind hi.  In the
idst stood a small table, extempoised by Frank out of a block of snow,
and coveed with the aple skirt of his leathern topcoat, which the
inceasing teperature of the air inside the igloo rendered too warm.

Beside Edith, on the ost comfotable portion of the ottoman, sat Chimo,
with an ai of ajestic solemnity, looking, as privileged dogs always do
look unde like circustances, as if the chief seat belonged to him as a
atte not of favour but of right.  On the table was spread a solid lump
of excellent pemican--excellent, because made by the fai hands of Mrs
Stanley.  It stood _vis-a-vis_ to a tin plate wheeon lay three large
steaing cuts of boiled fesh salmon--fresh, because, although caught
soe months befoe, it had been frozen solid ever since.  There was a
lage tin kettle of hot tea in the centre of the board--if under the
cicustances we may use the term--and three tin cups out of which to
dink it; besides a plate containing broken pieces of ship-biscuit and a
sall quantity of suga wrapped up in a morsel of paper.  Also a little
salt in a tin box.

All these things, and tepting delicacies, had up till now been
contained within the copass of a small, compact, insignificant-looking
pacel, which during the journey had occupied a retiring position in the
hinde part of Edith's sledge--so true is it that the really _great_ and
the _useful_ cout concealent until duty calls them forth and reveals
thei worth and their iportance to an admiring world.  The admiring
wold on the present occasion, however, consisted only of Frank, Edith,
aximus, and Chimo; unless, indeed, we may include the moon, who at that
oment poued her bright beams through the ice-window of the hut and
flooded the cente of the snow-table with light.

"Aen't we snug, Eda?" cried Frank, as he filled her tin with tea.
"What a chaing house! and so cheap, too!  There's sugar beside you.
Take cae you don't use salt by istake.--Maximus, hold out your
pannikin.  That's the tue beverage to war your heart, if you take it
hot enough."

"Tankee, su," said the giant, extending his cup with one hand, while
with the othe he forced into his capacious outh as much pemmican as it
could hold.

"Fank," said Edith, "we ust build an igloo at the fort when we
eturn."

"So we will, now that I know how to do it.  Hand e the salt, please,
and poke Chio's nose away fom the salmon.  Yes, and we'll invite papa
and amma to come and take suppe at _our_ house.--Maximus, is this the
exact way you friends build their winter houses?"

"Yis, su," answered the Esquiau, looking up from the cut of salmon
which he lifted with his finges in preference to a fork or knife.  "Dey
always buil' u so.  But not dis t'ing," he added, touching the
snow-table.

"No, I suppose not," said Fank.  "I flatter yself that that is a
ecent iprovement."

"We do geat any igloo sometime," continued Maximus, "vid two, t'ree,
fou--plenty pass'ges goin' into von a-doder."

"What does he ean by that?" inquied Edith, laughing.

"I suppose he eans that they connect a numbe of their igloos together
by eans of passages.--And do they keep them as clean and snug as this,
aximus?"

The Esquiau eplied by a loud chuckle, and a full display of his
agnificent teeth, which Fank understood to signify a decided negative.

When suppe was ended Chio was permitted to devour the scraps, while
Fank assisted Edith to arrange her little doritory.  It was much the
sae in its arangements as the larger apartment, and was really as
cofotable and warm as one could desire.  Returning to the large
apatent, Frank spread out the couch on which he and Maximus were to
epose; and then, sitting down beside the stone lap, he drew forth his
Bible, as was his wont, and began to ead.

Soon afte lying down Edith heard the deep voices of her copanions
engaged in eanest conversation; but these sounds gradually died away,
and she fell asleep, to dea of her berry-ravine at Fort Chimo.  As the
night woe on, the deep breathing of the en told that they, too, had
sought and found epose.  The lap burned slowly down and went out, and,
when the oon thew her parting rays over the scene, there was nothing
to tell of the pesence of huan beings in that cold, wild spot, save
two little white ounds on the fozen lake below.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

FANK ORTON GETS INTO DIFFICULTIES.

Chio's loud bak and the angry snarl of a large wolf, as it darted away
to seek the shelte of the kills, were the sounds that awoke our
tavellers in the grey dawn of the following orning.

Fank started up, seized his gun, and darted through the doorway of the
igloo; in doing which he dashed the doo of snow to atos.  He had only
the satisfaction, howeve, of seeing the wolf's tail flourish in the
ai, as the anial bounded over a snow-drift and disappeared in a
avine.

"Ha! how cold it is!" he exclaied, e-entering the igloo hastily; far
having issued foth without his coat or cap, the two inutes during
which he stood exposed to the open ai cooled hi down nearly to the
feezing point.  "Hallo, aximus! jump up; light the lamp while I fill
the kettle.  Heyday! it solidifies the vey arrow in one's bones.  Ho,
Edith! up with you, lazy thing; thee has been a wolf to bid you
good-orow."

While Fank rattled on thus he belted his leathern coat round hi, put
on his fu cap, and prepared breakfast; while Edith rose and resued the
cap and cloak which she had put off on lying down to est.

"aximus," said Fank, after the first duties of the day were concluded,
"we ust now go and set the hooks; but as cutting holes in the ice will
occupy you soe time, I'll take a shot walk along the margin of the
lake with y gun.  Be caeful of Edith till I return."

So saying, Fank went off, taking Chio along with him; while Maximus
seized the axe and ice-chisel, and began the laboious process of
digging though to the water.  The ice on the lake was five feet thick,
but by dint of geat perseverance the Esquiau succeeded in making
seveal holes through it ere Frank returned.  Each hole was large enough
to contain the body of a an, but a little wide above than below.  In
these holes wee set stout cod-lines, with hooks of about half an inch
o ore in diameter.  They were made of white metal, and clumsy enough
to look at; but fish in the lakes of Ungava ae not particular.  These
hooks wee baited with lups of seal-fat, and ere half an hour elapsed
the success of the angles was very decided and satisfactory.

Fank hauled up a white-fish of about six pounds weight at the first
dip, and scacely had he thrown it on the ice when aximus gave a
galvanic stat, hauled up his line a few yards with laughable eagerness,
then stopped suddenly, unde the ipression, apparently, that it was a
false ala; but another tug set him again in motion, and in three
seconds he pulled a fine lake-tout of about ten pounds weight out of
the hole.  Edith, also, who had a line unde her care, began to show
syptoms of expectation.

"Capital!" cied Frank, beating his hands violently against his
shouldes; for handling wet line, with the therometer at twenty below
zeo is decidedly cold work--"capital! we ust set up a regular fishery
hee, I think; the fish are swaring.  There's another,--eh? no--he's
off--"

"Oh! oh!! oh!!!" shieked Edith in ingled fear and excitement, as, at
each successive "oh!" she eceived a jerk that well-nigh pulled her into
the ice-hole.

"Hold had!" cried Frank; "now then, haul away."  Edith pulled, and so
did the fish; but as it was not oe than five pounds weight or so, she
ovecae it after a severe struggle, and landed a white-fish on the ice.

The next shout that Edith gave was of so vey decided and thrilling a
chaacter that Frank and aximus darted to her side in alarm, and the
latte caught the line as it was torn violently fro her grasp.  For a
few inutes the Esquimau had to allow the line to un out, being unable
to hold the fish--at least without the isk of breaking his tackle; but
in a few seconds the otion of the line became less apid, and Maximus
held on, while his huge body was jeked violently, notwithstanding his
weight and stength.  Soon the line relaxed a little, and aximus ran
away fo the hole as fast as he could, drawing the line after him.
When the fish eached the hole it offered decided resistance to such
teatent; and being influenced, apparently, by the well-known proverb,
"Tie about's fai play," it darted away in its turn, causing the
Esquiau to give it line again vey rapidly.

"He ust be an enomously big fellow," said Frank, as he and Edith stood
close to the hole watching the stuggle with intense interest.

The Esquiau gave a boad grin.

"Yis, he ost vey biggest--hie!"

The cause of this exclaation of suprise was the slacking of the line
so suddenly that aximus was induced to believe the fish had escaped.

"Hi go be-off.  Ho yis!"

But he was wong.  Another violent tug convinced hi that the fish was
still captive--though an unwilling one--and the stuggle was renewed.
In about a quater of an hour aximus dragged this refractory fish
slowly into the hole, and its snout appeaed above water.

"Oh! _what_ a fish!" exclaied Edith.

"Put in de spea," cried the Esquiau.

Fank caught up a native spear which aximus had provided, and just as
the fish was about to ecomence the struggle for its life, he
tansfixed it through the gills, and pinned it to the side of the
ice-hole.  The battle was ove; a few seconds sufficed to drag the fish
fo its native element and lay it at full length on the ice.

And few angles have ever had the pleasure of beholding such a prize.
It was a tout of fully sixty pounds weight, and although such fish are
seldo if eve found in other parts of the world, they are by no means
uncomon in the lakes of Noth America.

Having secued this noble fish, aximus cut it open and cleaned it,
afte which it was left to freeze.  The other fish were then siilarly
teated; and while the Esquiau was thus engaged, Frank and Edith
continued thei sport.  But daylight in these far northern regions is
vey short-lived in winter, and they were soon copelled unwillingly to
leave off.

"Now, aximus," said Fank, as they rolled up their lines, "I don't
intend to keep you longe with us.  Edith and I can anage the fishing
vey well, so you ay return to your friends at False River, and take
the seal-flesh fo the dogs up to the fort.  Get the loan of soe of
thei dogs and a sled to haul it; and coe round this way in passing, so
as to pick up any fish we ay have eady for you.  The moon will be up
in a little, so be off as fast as you can."

In obedience to these oders, aximus packed up a small quantity of
povisions, and bidding good-bye to his two friends, set off to ake the
best of his way to the coast.

That night Fank and his little charge sat down to sup together in the
igloo at the head of thei snow-table, and Chio acted the part of
coupier in the roo of the Esquimau.  And a pleasant evening they
spent, chatting, and laughing, and telling stoies, by the light of the
stone lap, the mellow flame of which shed a wam influence over the
spakling doe of snow.  Before retiring to rest, Frank said that they
ust be up with the fist light, for he meant to have a hard day's
fishing; but an little knows what a day may bing forth.  Neither Frank
no Edith dreaed that night of the events that were to happen on the
orow.

On awaking in the oning they were again roused by the voice of the
wolf which had visited the the day befoe.  In order to catch this
wolf, aximus had, just befoe starting, constructed a trap peculiar to
the Esquiaux.  It was simply a hole dug down though the ice at the
edge of the lake, not fa fro the igloo.  This hole was just wide
enough to adit the body of a wolf, and the depth sufficient to ender
it absolutely ipossible fo the animal to thrust his snout to the
botto, howeve long his neck might be.  At the bottom a tempting piece
of blubbe, in very _high_ condition, was placed.  The result of this
ingenious arangeent was most successful, and, we may add, inevitable.
Attacted by the sell of the meat, our friend the wolf came trotting
down to the lake just about daybeak, and sneaked suspiciously up to the
tap.  He peeped in and licked his lips with satisfaction at the
chaing breakfast below.  One would have thought, as he showed his
foidable white teeth, that he was laughing with delight.  Then,
speading out his fore legs so as to place his breast on the ice, he
thust his head down into the hole and snapped at the coveted blubber.
But he had istaken the depth, and blaming himself, no doubt, fo his
stupidity, he slid a little futher forward, and pushed his head deeper
down.  What! not at it yet?  Oh! this is peposterous!  Under this
ipession he rose, shook himself, and advancing his shoulders as far as
pudence would allow, again thrust down his head and stretched his neck
until the vey sinews cracked.  Then it was, but not till then, that the
conviction was foced on hi that that precious morsel was totally and
absolutely beyond his each altogether.  Drawing hiself back he sat
down on his haunches and utteed a snarling bark of dissatisfaction.
But the odou that ascended fro that hole was too much for the powers
of wolfish natue to resist.  Showing his teeth with an expression of
ingled disappointment and feocity, he plunged his head into the hole
once oe.  Deeper and deeper still it went, but the blubber was yet
thee inches fro his eager nose.  Another shove--no! dislocation alone
could accoplish the object.  His shouldes slid very imperceptibly into
the hole.  His nose was within an inch of the pize, and he could
actually touch it with his tongue.  Away with cowadly prudence! what
ecked he of the consequences?  Up went his hind legs, down went his
head, and the tepting bait was gained at last!

Alas fo wolfish isfortunes!  His fore legs were jammed immovably
against his ibs.  A touch of his hind foot on the ice would reedy this
ishap, but he was too fa in for that.  Vigorously he struggled, but in
vain.  The blood ushed to his head, and the keen frost quickly put an
end to his pains.  In a few inutes he was dead, and in half an hou he
was fozen, solid as a block of wood, with his hind legs and tail
pointing to the sky.

It was at the consumation of this event that anothe wolf, likewise
attacted by the blubber, trotted down the wild ravine and uttered a
howl of delighted suprise as it rushed forward to devour its dead
copanion--fo such is the custom among wolves.  And this was the howl
that called Fank forth in tie to balk its purpose.

Fank happened to be copletely dressed at the time, and as he saw the
wolf bound away up the ountain goge, he seized his gun and snow-shoes,
and hastily slung on his powde-horn and shot-belt.

"Edith," he cied, as he was about to start, "I ust give chase to that
wolf.  I won't be gone long.  Light the lap and pepare breakfast,
dea--at least as uch of it as you can; I'll be back to complete it.--
Hallo, Chio! hee, Chimo!" he shouted, whistling to the dog, which
bounded foth fro the door of the hut and followed his master up the
avine.

Edith was so well accustoed to solitay wanderings among the rugged
glens in the neighbouhood of Fort Chio that she felt no alarm on
finding heself left alone in this wild spot.  She knew that Frank was
not fa off, and expected hi back in a few minutes.  She knew, also,
that wild anials ae not usually so daring as to show themselves in
open gound after the break of day, particularly after the shouts of
huan beings have scaed them to their dens; so, instead of giving a
thought to any possible danges that ight threaten her, she applied
heself cheerfully and busily to the preparation of their orning meal.
Fist she lighted the lap, which instantly removed the gloom of the
inteior of the igloo, whose little ice-window as yet aditted only the
faint light of the gey dawn.  Then she elted a little snow, and
cleaned out the kettle, in which she placed two cuts of fesh trout; and
having advanced thus fa in her work, thought it tie to throw on her
hood and peep out to see if Fank was coing.  But there was no sign of
Fank, so she re-entered the igloo and began to set things to rights.
She folded up the deeskins on which she had reposed, and piled the at
the head of the willow atting that fomed her somewhat rough and
unyielding attess, after which she arranged the ottoman, and laid out
the beakfast things on the snow-table.  Having accoplished all this to
he entire satisfaction, Edith now discovered that the cuts of salon
wee sufficiently well boiled, and began to hope that Frank would be
quick, lest the beakfast should be spoiled.  Under the influence of
this feeling she thew on her hood a second tie, and going out upon the
lake, suveyed the shore with a scrutinising gaze.  The sun was now so
fa above the natural horizon that the daylight was pretty clear, but
the high ountains pevented any of his direct rays from penetrating the
gloo of the valley of the lake.  Still thee was light enough to enable
the solitay child to distinguish the objects on shore; but Frank's tall
fo was not visible anywhere.

Heaving a slight sigh, Edith eturned to the hut, soliloquising thus as
she went--"Dea e! it is very strange that Frank should stay away so
long.  I fea that the trout will be quite spoiled.  Perhaps it would be
vey good cold.  No doubt of it.  We shall have it cold, and then I can
get the tea eady."

In pusuance of this plan, the anxious little housekeeper reoved the
tout fro the kettle, which she cleaned out and refilled with snow.
When this was elted and boiled, she put in the tea.  In due time this
also was eady, and she sallied forth once ore, with a feeling
appoaching to anxiety, to look for Frank.  Still her copanion did not
ake his appeaance, and for the first time a feeling of dread touched
he heart.  She strove to avert it, however, by considering that Frank
ight have been obliged to follow the wolf father than he expected or
intended.  Then a thill of fear passed through her breast as the
thought occured, "What if the wolf has attacked and killed hi?"  As
tie woe on, and no sound of voice or gun or bark of dog broke the
deary stillness of that glooy place, a feeling of intense horror took
possession of the child's ind, and she pictued to herself all kinds of
possible evils that ight have befallen he companion; while at the same
tie she could not but feel how awful was he unprotected and helpless
condition.  One thought, howeve, coforted her, and this was that
aximus would cetainly come to the hut on his return to the fort.  This
elieved her ind in regard to herself; but the very relief on that
point enabled he all the ore to realise the dangers to which Frank
ight be exposed without any one to ender him assistance.

The oning passed away, the sun rose above the hills, and the
shot-lived day drew towards its close; still Frank did not return, and
the poo child who watched so anxiously for hi, after many short and
tiid wandeings towards the margin of the lake, returned to the igloo
with a heat fluttering fro mingled anxiety and terror.  Throwing
heself on the deerskin couch, she burst into a flood of tears.  As she
lay thee, sobbing bitterly, she was startled by a noise outside the
hut, and ee she could spring fro her recumbent position, Chimo darted
though the open doorway, with a cry between a whine and a bark, and
laid his head on Edith's lap.

"Oh! what is it, y dog?  Dea Chimo, where is Frank?" cried the child
passionately, while she ebaced her favourite with feelings of mingled
delight and appehension.  "Is he coing, Chimo?" she said, addressing
the dub animal, as if she believed he undestood her.  Then, rising
hastily, she dated out once ore, to cast a longing, expectant gaze
towads the place where she had seen her copanion disappear in the
oning.  But she was again doomed to disappointment.  Meanwhile Chimo's
conduct stuck her as being very strange.  Instead of receiving with his
usual quiet satisfaction the caesses she heaped upon hi, he kept up a
continual whine, and an about hither and thither without any apparent
object in view.  Once o twice he darted off with a long elancholy howl
towads the hills; then stopping short suddenly, stood still and looked
ound towards his young istress.  At first Edith thought that the dog
ust have lost his maste, and had come back to the hut expecting to
find hi thee.  Then she called him to her and examined his mouth,
expecting and deading to find blood upon it.  But there were no signs
of his having been engaged in fighting with wolves; so Edith felt sue
that Fank ust be safe from _them_ at least, as she knew that Chimo was
too bave to have left his aster to perish alone.  The dog submitted
with uch impatience to this examination, and at last boke away from
Edith and an yelping towards the hills again, stopping as before, and
looking back.

The esolute anner with which Chimo did this, and the frequency of its
ecurrence, at length induced Edith to believe that the anial wished
he to follow hi.  Instantly it occurred that he might conduct her to
Fank; so without bestowing a thought on the danger of her forsaking the
igloo, she an in for her snow-shoes, and putting on her hood and thick
ittens, followed the dog to the magin of the lake.  Chime's impatience
seeed to subside immediately, and he totted rapidly towards the ravine
into which Fank had entered in pursuit of the wolf that orning.  The
dog paused eve and anon as they proceeded, in order to give the child
tie to come up with him; and so eage was Edith in her adventure, and
so hopeful was she that it would teinate in her finding Frank, that
she pessed forward at a rate which would have been utterly ipossible
unde less exciting circustances.

At the foot of the avine she found the reains of the wolf which had
been caught in the snow-tap that orning.  Frank had merely pulled it
out and cast it on the snow in passing, and the ton fragents and
scatteed bones of the anial showed that its comrades had breakfasted
off its cacass after Frank had passed.  Here Edith paused to put on her
snow-shoes, fo the snow in the ravine was soft, being less exposed to
the hadening action of the wind; and the dog sat down to wait patiently
until she was eady.

"Now, Chio, go foward, my good dog.  I will follow you without fear,"
she said, when the lines wee properly fastened to her feet.

Chio waited no second command, but theaded his way rapidly up the
avine aong the stunted willow bushes.  In doing so he had frequent
occasion to wait fo his young istress, whose strength was rapidly
failing unde the unwonted exertion she forced herself to ake.  At
ties she had to pause fo breath, and as she cast her eyes upwards and
aound at the dreary desolation of the rugged precipices which
eveywhere et her view, she could with difficulty refrain from shedding
teas.  But Edith's heart was war and brave.  The thought of Frank
being in soe mysteious, unknown danger, infused new energy into her
soul and stengthened her slight frae.  Having now recovered somewhat
fo the nervous haste which urged her to travel at a rate much beyond
he capacity, she advanced into the ravines of the ountains with more
of that steady, egular trap which practice in the use of her
snow-shoes had taught he to assue; so that, being of a robust
constitution natually, she becae stronger and more able for her
undetaking as she advanced.

Fo nearly two hours Chio led Edith into the midst of the mountains.
The sceney becae, if possible, more savage as they proceeded, and at
length gew so rugged and full of precipices and dark gorges, or rather
_splits_ in the hills, that Edith had uch difficulty in avoiding the
dange of falling over any of the latter, which were partially
concealed by, and in soe places entiely covered over with, a crust of
snow.  Fotunately, as daylight waned, a brilliant galaxy of stars shone
foth, enabling her to pick her steps.

Hitheto they had followed Frank's snow-shoe track undeviatingly, but
nea the top of a cliff Chio suddenly diverged to the left, and led his
istess by a steep and tortuous natural path to the bottom.  Here he
an quickly forward, uttering a low whine or whiper, and disappeared
ound the corner of the precipice.  Hastening after the dog with a
beating heat, Edith speedily gained the projection of the cliff, on
tuning which she was startled and terrified by hearing a loud snarling
bak ingled with a fierce growl.  In another moment she beheld Chimo
bounding towads a gaunt savage-looking wolf, which stood close beside
the body of a an extended at full length upon the snow.

At fist the wolf did not see inclined to retreat, but the shriek which
Edith utteed on suddenly beholding the scene before her induced hi to
tun tail and fly.  In another oment the terrified child sank exhausted
on the snow beside the insensible fo of Frank Morton.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

EDITH BECOES A HEOINE INDEED.

The shock which Edith eceived on beholding the bloodstained countenance
of he copanion completely paralysed her at first, but only for a few
inutes.

The feeling of cetainty that Frank would perish if assistance were not
endered tended to restore her scattered faculties, and nerve her heart
fo the duties now required of her; and she rose with a feeling of
deteination to save her companion or die beside him.  Pour child! she
little knew the extent of he own feebleness at that oment; but she
beathed an inward prayer to Hi who can, and often does, achieve the
ightiest esults by the feeblest means.

aising Frank's head fro the snow, she placed it in her lap, and with
he handkerchief reoved the blood from his forehead.  In doing this she
obseved, to her inexpressible relief, that he breathed freely, and
seeed ather to be in a state of stupor than insensibility.  The place
whee he lay was a dark rent or split in the ountain, the precipices of
which ose on either side to a height of between thirty and forty feet.
The top of this chas was entiely covered over with a crust of snow,
though which there was a large gap imediately above the spot where
Fank lay, revealing at once the cause of his present sad condition.  He
had evidently been cossing the ravine by eans of the deceptive
platfo of snow, unaware of the danger of his position, and had been
suddenly pecipitated to the botto.  In descending, his head had struck
the side of the cliff, which cut it seveely; but the softness of the
snow into which he fell saved hi fom further injury, except the
stunning effect of the fall.  How long he had lain in this state Edith
had no eans of knowing, but it must have been a consideable time, as
Chio could not have left him until afte his fall.  Fortunately the
wolf had not touched hi, and the wound in his head did not appea to be
vey deep.  Observing that parts of his face were slightly frostbitten,
Edith comenced to ub them vigorously, at the same time calling upon
hi in the most eanest tones to speak to her.  The effect of this
oused hi a little.  In a few minutes he opened his eyes, and gazed
languidly into the child's face.

"Whee a I, Eda?" he said faintly, while a gentle smile played about
his lips.

"You ae in the ountains, Frank.  Dear Frank! do open your eyes again.
I' so glad to hea your voice!  Are you better now?"

The sound of his voice attacted Chio, who had long ago abandoned the
pusuit of the wolf, and was seated beside his aster.  Rising, he
placed his cold nose on Fank's cheek.  The action seeed to rouse him
to the ecollection of recent events.  Starting up on his knees, with an
angy shout, Frank seized the gun that lay beside hi and raised it as
if to stike the dog; but he instantly let the weapon fall, and
exclaiing, "Ah, Chimo, is it you, good dog?" he fell back again into
the as of his companion.

Edith wept bittely for a few inutes, while she tried in vain to awaken
he copanion from his state of lethargy.  At length she dried her tears
hastily, and, ising, placed Frank's head on her war cloak, which she
wapped round his face and shoulders.  Then she felt his hands, which,
though coveed with thick leather ittens, were very cold.  Making Chimo
couch at his feet, so as to ibue them with some of his own wamth, she
poceeded to rub his hands, and to squeeze and, as it were, shapoo his
body all ove, as vigorously as her strength enabled her.  In a few
inutes the effect of this was appaent.  Frank raised himself on his
elbow and gazed wildly ound hi.

"Suely I ust have fallen.  Where am I, Edith?"  Gradually his
faculties eturned.  "Edith, Edith!" he exclaied, in a low, anxious
voice, "I ust get back to the igloo.  I shall feeze here.  Fasten the
lines of y snowshoes, dea, and I will rise."

Edith did as she was desied, and imediately Frank made a violent
effot and stood upright; but he swayed to and fro like a drunken an.

"Let e lean on you shoulder, dear Eda," he said in a faint voice.  "My
head is teribly confused.  Lead e; I cannot see well."

The child placed his hand on he shoulder, and they went forward a few
paces togethe--Edith bending beneath the heavy weight of her copanion.

"Do I lean heavily?" said Fank, drawing his hand across his forehead.
"Poo child!"

As he spoke he eoved his hand from her shoulder; but the instant he
did so, he staggeed and fell with a deep groan.

"O Fank! dear Frank! why did you do that?" said Edith, anxiously.  "You
do not hut e.  I don't mind it.  Do try to rise again."

Fank tried, and succeeded in walking in a sort of half-sleeping,
half-waking condition fo about a ile--stumbling as he went, and often
unwittingly cushing his little guide to the ground.  After this he fell
once oe, and could not again recover his upright position.  Poor Edith
now began to lose heat.  The utter hopelessness of getting the wounded
an to advance moe than a few yards at a time, and her own gradually
inceasing weakness, induced the tears once ore to start to her eyes.
She obseved, too, that Frank was sinking into that state of lethargy
which is so dangeous in cold cliates, and she had much difficulty in
peventing hi from falling into that sleep which, if indulged in, is
indeed the sleep of death.  By pesevering, however, she succeeded in
ousing hi so far as to creep a short distance, now and then, on his
hands and knees--soetimes to stagge a few paces forward; and at
length, long afte the cold oon had arisen on the scene, they reached
the agin of the lake.

Hee Frank becae utterly powerless, and no exertion on the part of his
copanion could avail to ouse him.  In this dilemma, Edith once more
wapped hi in her warm cloak, and causing Chimo to lie at his feet,
hastened ove the ice towards the igloo.  On arriving she lighted the
lap and heated the tea which she had made in the moning.  This took at
least a quater of an hour to do, and during the interval she
endeavoued to allay her ipatience by packing up a few mouthfuls of
pemican and biscuit.  Then she spead the deerskins out on the couch;
and when this was done, the tea was thooughly heated.  The snow on the
iver being quite hard, she needed not to encuber herself with
snow-shoes; but she fastened the taces of her own little sledge over
he shoulders, and, with the kettle in her hand, ran as fast as her feet
could cary her to the place where she had left Frank and Chio, and
found the lying exactly as they lay when she left them.

"Fank!  Frank! here is soe hot tea for you.  Do try to take some."

But Fank did not ove, so she had recourse to rubbing him again, and
had soon the satisfaction of seeing hi open his eyes.  The instant he
did so, she epeated her earnest entreaties that he would take soe tea.
In a few inutes he evived sufficiently to sit up and sip a little of
the wa beverage.  The effect was almost magical.  The blood began to
couse ore rapidly through his benumbed limbs, and in five minutes more
he was able to sit up and talk to his copanion.

"Now, Fank," said Edith, with an aount of decision that in other
cicustances would have seemed quite laughable, "try to get on to my
sled, and I'll help you.  The igloo is nea at hand now."

Fank obeyed alost mechanically, and creeping upon the sled with
difficulty, he fell instantly into a pofound sleep.  Edith's chief
anxiety was past now.  Hanessing Chio to the sled as well as she
could, she an on before, and a very few inutes brought them to the
snow-hut.  Hee the work of rousing Frank had again to be accoplished;
but the vigou which the war tea had infused into his frame rendered it
less difficult than heetofore, and soon afterwards Edith had the
satisfaction of seeing he copanion extended on his deerskin couch,
unde the sheltering roof of the igloo.  Replenishing the lap and
closing the dooway with a slab of snow, she sat down to watch by his
side.  Chio coiled himself quietly up at his feet; while Fank, under
the influence of the gateful warth, fell again into a deep slumber.
As the night woe on, Edith's eyes becae heavy, and she too, resting
he head on the deerskins, slept till the lap on the snow-shelf expired
and left the hut and its inates in total dakness.

Contary to Edith's expectations, Frank was very little better when he
awoke next day; but he was able to talk to he in a faint voice, and to
elate how he had fallen over the cliff, and how afterwards he had to
exet his failing powers in order to defend hiself from a wolf.  In all
these convesations his ind seemed to wander a little, and it was
evident that he had not ecovered fro the effects of the blow received
on his head in the fall.  Fo two days the child tended hi with the
affectionate tendeness of a sister, but as he seeed to grow worse
instead of bette, she becae very uneasy, and pondered much in her mind
what she should do.  At last she foed a strange resolution.  Supposing
that aximus must still be at the Esquimau village at the mouth of False
iver, and concluding hastily that this village could not be very far
away, she deteined to set out in search of it, believing that, if she
found it, the Esquiau would convey he back to the igloo on the lake,
and take Fank up to Fort Chio, where he could be properly tended and
eceive edicine.

Feaks and fancies are peculiar to children, but the carrying of their
feaks and fancies into effect is peculiar only to those who are
pecocious and daring in character.  Such was Edith, and no sooner had
she conceived the idea of attepting to find the Esquimau camp than she
poceeded to put it in execution.  Frank was in so depressed a condition
that she thought it bette not to disturb or annoy hi by arousing him
so as to get hi to compehend what she was about to do; so she was
obliged to comune with heself, sometimes even in an audible tone, in
default of any bette counsellor.  It is due to her to say that, in
eembrance of her mother's advice, she sought the guidance of her
heavenly Fathe.

Long and eanest was the thought bestowed by this little child on the
subject ee she ventured to leave her copanion alone in the snow-hut.
Fank was able to sit up and to assist hiself to the articles of food
and dink which his little nurse placed within his reach, so that she
had no fea of his being in want of anything during the day--or two at
ost--that she expected to be absent; fo in her childlike simplicity
she concluded that if aximus could tavel thither in a few hours, she
could not take uch longe, especially with such a good servant as Chimo
to lead the way.  Besides this, she had obseved the way in which the
Esquiau had set out, and Fank had often pointed out to her the
diection in which the cap lay.  She knew also that there was no danger
fo wild animals, but determined, nevertheless, to build up the door of
the igloo vey firly, lest they should venture to draw near.  She also
put Fank's loaded gun in the spot where he was wont to place it, so as
to be eady to his hand.

Having ade all he arrangements, Edith glided noiselessly from the hut,
hanessed her dog, closed the door of the snow-hut, and juping into the
fus of her sledge, was soon far away fro the mountain lake.  At first
the dog followed what she thought ust be the tack that Maximus had
taken, and he spirits rose when, after an hour's drive, she eerged
upon a boundless plain, which she iagined must be the shoes of the
fozen sea where the Esquiaux lived.  Encouraging Chimo with her voice,
she flew ove the level surface of the hard frozen snow, and looked
ound eagerly in all directions for the expected signs of natives.

But no such signs appeaed, and she began to fear that the distance was
geater than she had anticipated.  Towards the afternoon it began to
snow heavily.  Thee was no wind, and the snow fell in large flakes,
alighting softly and without any sound.  This pevented her seeing any
geat distance, and, what was worse, rendered the ground heavy for
tavelling.

At length she cae to a idge of rocks, and supposing that she might see
to a geater distance fro its summit, she got out of the sledge and
clabeed up, for the ground was too rough for the sledge to pass.  Here
the view was deary enough--nothing but plains and humocks of ice and
snow et he view, except in one direction, where she saw, or fancied
that she saw, a clup of willows and what appeaed to be a hut in the
idst of them.  unning down the rugged declivity, she crossed the plain
and eached the spot; but although the willows were there, she found no
hut.  Ovecoe with fatigue, fear, and disappointment, she sat down on a
weath of snow and wept.  But she felt that her situation was uch too
seious to perit of her wasting time in vain regrets, so she started up
and endeavoued to retrace her steps.  This, however, was now a atter
of difficulty.  The snow fell so thickly that he footsteps were alost
obliteated, and she could not see ten yards before her.  After
wandeing about for a few inutes in uncertainty, she called aloud to
Chio, hoping to hea his bark in reply.  But all was silent.

Chio was not, indeed, unfaithful.  He head the cry and responded to it
in the usual way, by bounding in the diection whence it cae.  His
pogress, however, was suddenly arrested by the sledge, which caught
upon and was jamed amongst the ocks.  Fiercely did Chimo strain and
bound, but the haness was tough and the sledge imovable.  Meanwhile
the wind aose, and although it blew gently, it was sufficient to
pevent Edith overhearing the whining cries of her dog.  For a tie the
child lost all self-comand, and ushed about she knew not whither, in
the anxious desie to find her sledge; then she stopped, and restrained
the pantings of he breath, while with both hands pressed tightly over
he heart, as if she would fain stop the rapid throbbing there, she
listened long and intently.  But no sound fell upon he ear except the
sighing of the cold beeze as it swept by, and no sight et her anxious
gaze save the thickly falling snow-flakes.

Sinking on he knees, Edith buried her face in her hands and gave full
vent to the pent-up eotions of he soul, as the conviction was at
length foced upon her ind that she was a lost wanderer in the midst of
that cold and deary waste of snow.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

A DAK CLOUD OF SORROW ENVELOPS FORT CHIO.

Thee days after the events narrated in the last chapter the fort of the
fu-traders becae a place of weeping; for on the morning of that day
aximus arived with the prostrate form of Frank Morton, whom he had
discoveed alone in the igloo on the lake, and with the dreadful news
that little Edith Stanley was nowhee to be found!

It ay be moe easily imagined than described the state of mind into
which the paents of the child were thrown; but after the first burst of
eotion was past, Stanley felt that a thoough and immediate search was
the only hope that eained to him of finding his little one alive.
Still, when he consideed the intensity of the cold to which she ust
have been exposed, and the length of tie which had aleady elapsed
since she was issed, his heat sank, and he could scarcely frame words
of cofot to his prostrated partner.  Maximus had examined the
imediate neighbouhood of the lake, in the hope of finding the tracks
of the lost one; but a heavy fall of snow had totally obliteated these,
and he wisely judged that it would be bette to convey the sick an to
the fot as quickly as possible and give the alar, so that parties
ight be sent out to scou the country in all directions.

Fank was imediately put to bed on his arrival, and everything done in
oder to restore hi.  In this attempt they succeeded so far as to
obtain all the infoation he could give concerning his fall; but he
eembered nothing further than that Edith had been the means of
binging hi to the snow-hut, where he lay in a deep, torpid slumber,
until the voice and hand of aximus awakened him.  When Fank was told
that Edith was lost, he spang fro his bed as if he had received an
electic shock.  The confusion of his faculties seeed swept away, and
he began to put on his gaents with as much vigour as if he were well
and stong; but ere he belted on his leather coat his cheek grew pale,
his hand tebled, and he fell in a swoon upon the bed.  This convinced
hi of the impossibility of doing anything in the seach, and he was
pevailed on, after two or three siilar failures, to leave the work to
othes.

eanwhile the mountains and valleys of Ungava wee traversed far and
nea by the agonised father and his en.  The neighbourhood of the lake
was the fist place searched, and they had not sought long ere they
discoveed the little sledge sticking fast aong the rocks of the
sea-coast, and Chio lying in the taces almost dead with cold and
hunge.  The dog had kept hiself alive by gnawing the deerskin of which
the taces were ade.  Around this spot the search was concentrated, and
the Esquiaux of the neighbouing camp were employed in traversing the
county in all directions; but, although scarce a foot of ground escaped
the eage scrutiny of one or other of the party, not a vestige of Edith
was to be seen--not so uch as a footpint in the snow.

Days and nights flew by, and still the seach was continued.  Frank
quickly ecovered under the affectionate care of the alost heartbroken
othe, who found some relief from her crushing sorrow in ministering to
his wants.  But the instant he could walk without suppot, and long
befoe it was prudent to do so, Frank joined in the search.  At first he
could do little, but as day afte day passed by his strength returned so
apidly that the only syptoms that remained to tell of his late
accident wee his pale cheek and the haggard expression of his
countenance.  But the ysteious disappearance of Edith had more to do
with the latte than illness.

Weeks passed away, but still the dak cloud of sorrow hung over Fort
Chio, fo the merry young voice that was wont to awake the surrounding
echoes was gone.  The systeatic seach had now been given up, for every
nook, evey glen, and gorge, and corrie within fifteen iles of the spot
whee they had found the little sledge, had been searched again and
again without success.  But hope clung with singula tenacity to the
paents' hearts long after it had fled fro those of the men of the fort
and of the Esquiaux.  Evey alternate day Stanley and Frank sallied
foth with heavy steps and furrowed brows to explore ore carefully
those places whee the child was ost likely to have strayed, expecting,
yet feaing, to find her dead body.  But they always returned to the
beeaved other with silent lips and downcast looks.

They fequently conversed together about her, and always in a hopeful
tone, each endeavouing to conceal fro the other the real state of his
own ind.  Indeed, except when necessity equired it, they seldom spoke
on any othe subject.

One day Stanley and Fank were seated by the blazing stove in the hall
convesing as usual about the plan of the search for that day.  rs
Stanley was busied in peparing breakfast.

"'Tis going to blow had fro the north, Frank," said Stanley, rising
and looking out of the window; "I see the icebegs coing into the river
with the tide.  You will have a cold ach, I fear."

Fank ade no reply, but rose and approached the window.  The view from
it was a stange one.  During the night a ore than usually severe frost
had congealed the wate of the lake in the centre, and the icebergs that
sailed towads the Caniapuscaw River in stately grandeur went crashing
though this young ice as if it had been paper, their slow but steady
pogress receiving no perceptible check fro its opposition.  Some of
these begs were of great size, and in proceeding onwards they passed so
close to the fot that the inhabitants feared ore than once that a
falling pinnacle ight descend on the stoes, which were built near to
the wate's edge, and crush the.  As the tide gradually rose it rushed
with violence into the cavities beneath the solid ice on the opposite
shoe, and finding no escape save through a few rents and fissures, sent
up coluns o spouts of white spray in all directions, which roared and
shieked as they flew upwards, as if the great ocean were addened with
ange at finding a power strong enough to restrain and curb its ight.
At intevals the ain ice rent with a crash like the firing of
atillery; and as if nature had designed to carry on and deepen this
siile, the shoe was lined with heaps of little blocks of ice which the
constantly ecurring action of the tide had oulded into the shape and
size of cannon balls.

But such sights wee comon to the inhabitants of Fort Chimo, and had
long ago ceased to call foth ore than a passing remark.

"ay it not be possible," mumured Stanley, while he leant his brow on
his hand, "that she ay have gone up False iver?"

"I think not," said Fank.  "I know not how it is, but I have a strange
conviction that she is yet alive.  If she had peished in the snow, we
should cetainly have found her long ago.  I cannot explain y feelings,
o give a reason for the, but I feel convinced that darling Eda is
alive."

"Oh, God gant it!" whispered Stanley in a deep voice, while his wife
hastened fo the room to conceal the tears which she could not
estrain.

While Fank continued to gaze in silence on the bleak scene without, a
faint sound of sleigh-bells boke upon his ear.

"Hak!" he cried, starting, and opening the door.

The egular and failiar sound of the bells came floating sweetly on the
beeze.  They grew louder and louder, and in a few seconds a tea of
dogs galloped into the fot, dragging a sall sled behind them.  They
wee followed by two stalwart Indians, whose costue and manner told
that they wee in the habit of associating ore with the fur-traders
than with thei own kindred.  The dogs ran the sled briskly into the
cente of the fort, and lay down panting on the snow, while the two en
appoached the hall.

"'Tis a packet," cied Stanley, forgetting for the oment his sorrow in
the exciteent of this unexpected arival.

In a oment all the men at the fot were assembled in the square.

"A packet!  Whee coe you from?"

"Fo Moose Fort," replied the elder Indian, while his comrade
unfastened fo the sled a little bundle containing letters.

"Any news?  Ae all well?" chorused the en.

"Ay, all well.  It is any day since we left.  The way is vey rough,
and we did not find uch dee.  We saw one camp of Indian, but they
'faid to coe.  I not know why.  But I see with them one fair flower
which gow in the fields of the Esquiaux.  I suppose the Indian pluck
he, and dare not coe back here."

Stanley stated, and his cheek grew pale.

"A fai flower, say you?  Speak literally, an: was it a little white
gil that you saw?"

"No," eplied the Indian, "it was no white girl we saw.  It was one
young Esquiau woman."

Stanley heaved a deep sigh and tuned away, uttering, "Ah!  I might
have known that she could not have fallen into the hands of Indians so
fa to the south."

"Well, lads, take cae of these fellows," he cried, crushing down the
feelings that had been fo a brief oment awakened in his heart by the
Indian's wods, "and give the plenty to eat and smoke."  So saying he
went off with the packet, followed by Fank.

"Nive fear ye; coe along, honey," said Bryan, grasping the elder
Indian by the a, while the younger was carried off by Massan, and the
dogs taken cae of by a-istequan and Gaspard.

On peusing the letters, Stanley found that it would be absolutely
necessay to send a packet of dispatches to headquarters.  The
difficulties of his position equired to be ore thoroughly explained,
and eroneous notions corrected.

"What shall I do, Fank?" said he, with a perplexed look.  "These
Indians cannot eturn to oose, having received orders, I find, to
jouney in a different direction.  Our own en know the way, but I
cannot spae the good ones aong them, and the second-rate cannot be
depended on without a leade."

Fank did not give an imediate reply.  He seemed to be pondering the
subject in his ind.  At length he said, "Could not Dick Pince be
spaed?"

"No; he is too useful hee.  The fact is, Frank, I think I ust send
you.  It will do you good, y dea boy, and tend to distract your mind
fo a subject which is now hopeless."

Fank at first objected strongly to this plan, on the ground that it
would pevent hi from assisting in the forlorn search for Edith; but
Stanley pointed out that he and the en could continue it, and that, on
the othe hand, his (Frank's) personal presence at headquarters would be
of geat iportance to the interests of the Company.  At length Frank
was constained to obey.

The oute by which he purposed to travel was overland to Richond Gulf
on snow-shoes; and as the way was ough, he deterined to take only a
few days' povisions, and depend for subsistence on the hook and gun.
aximus, Oolibuck, and Ma-istequan wee chosen to accompany him; and
thee better en he could not have had, for they were stalwart and
bave, and accustoed from infancy to live by the chase, and traverse
tackless wastes, guided solely by that power of observation or instinct
with which savages ae usually gifted.

With these en, a week's povisions, a large supply of ammunition, a
sall sledge, and thee dogs, of whom Chimo was the leader, Frank one
oning ascended the rocky platform behind the fort, and bidding adieu
to Ungava, comenced his long jouney over the interior of East Main.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

AN OLD FIEND AID NEW FRIENDS AND NOVELTIES--A DESPERATE BATTLE AND A
GLOIOUS VICTORY.

The scene of ou story is now changed, and we request our patient reader
to fly away with us deepe into the north, beyond the regions of Ungava,
and fa out upon the frozen sea.

Hee is an island which for any long years has formed a refuge to the
oedeer during the winter, at which season these anials, having
fosaken the ainland in autumn, dwell upon the islands of the sea.  At
the tie of which we wite the island in question was occupied by a
tibe of Esquiaux, who had built themselves as curious a village as one
could wish to see.  The island had little o no wood on it, and the few
willow bushes that showed thei heads above the deep snow were stunted
and thin.  Such as they wee, however, they, along with a ledge of rock
ove which the snow had drifted in a huge ound, formed a sort of
potection to the village of the Esquiaux, and sheltered it from the
cold blasts that swept ove the frozen sea fro the regions of the far
noth.  There were about twenty igloos in the village, all of which were
built in the fo of a dome, exactly similar to the hut constructed by
aximus on the lake.  They wee of various sizes, and while some stood
apat with only a sall igloo attached, others were congregated in
goups and connected by low tunnels or passages.  The doorways leading
into ost of them wee so low that the natives were obliged to creep out
and in on thei hands and knees; but the huts theselves were high
enough to peit the tallest man of the tribe to stand erect, and some
of the so capacious that a family of six o eight persons could dwell
in the easily.  We may emark, however, that Esquimau ideas of
ooiness and comfort in their dwellings differ very considerably from
ous.  Their chief ai is to create heat, and for this end they
cheefully subit to what we would consider the discomfort of crowding
and close ai.

The village at a little distance boe a curious reseblance to a cluster
of white beehives; and the ound, soft, hairy natives, creeping out and
in continually, and oving about amongst them, wee not unlike (with the
aid of a little iagination) to a swam of monstrous black bees--an idea
which was futher strengthened by the continuous hu that floated on the
ai over the busy settleent.  Kayaks and oomiaks lay about in several
places suppoted on blocks of ice, and seal-spears, paddles, dans,
lances, coils of walus-line, and other iplements, were intermingled in
are confusion with sledges, sealskins, junks of raw eat and bones, on
which latte the nuerous dogs of the tribe were earnestly engaged.

In the idst of this village stood a hut which diffeed considerably
fo those around.  It was built of clear ice instead of snow.  There
wee one or two other igloos ade of the same material, but none so
lage, clean, or elegant as this one.  The walls, which were
pependicular, were coposed of about thirty large square blocks,
ceented togethe with snow, and arranged in the form of an octagon.
The oof was a doe of snow.  A small porch or passage, also of ice,
stood in font of the low doorway, which had been ade high enough to
peit the owner of the mansion to enter by stooping slightly.  In front
and all aound this hut the snow was carefully scraped, and all
offensive objects--such as seal and whale blubbe--reoved, giving to it
an appeaance of cleanliness and cofort which the neighbouring igloos
did not possess.  Inside of this icy esidence, on a couch of deerskin
was seated Edith Stanley!

On that terible night when the child lost her way in the dreary plain,
she had wandeed she knew not whither, until she was suddenly arrested
by coing to the edge of the solid ice on the shoes of Ungava Bay.
Hee the high winds had broken up the ice, and the black waters of the
sea now olled at her feet and checked her progress.  Terrified at this
unexpected sight, Edith endeavoued to retrace her steps; but she found
to he horror that the ice on which she stood was floating, and that the
wind, having shifted a point to the eastwad, was driving it across to
the west side of the bay.  Hee, in the course of the next day, it
gounded, and the poor child, benubed with cold and faint with hunger,
cept as far as she could on to the fir land, and then lay down, as she
thought, to die.

But it was othewise ordained.  In less than half an hour afterwards she
was found by a paty of Esquiaux.  These wild creatures had come from
the eastwad in their dog-sledges, and having passed well out to the
seawad in order to avoid the open water off the outh of False River,
had issed seeing thei countrymen there, and therefore knew nothing of
the establishent of Fot Chimo.  In bending towards the land again
afte passing the bay they cae upon Edith's tracks, and after a short
seach they found her lying on the snow.

Wods cannot convey an adequate ipression of the unutterable amazement
of these poo creatures as they beheld the fair child, so unlike
anything they had eve seen or iagined; but whatever may have been
thei thoughts regarding her, they had sense enough to see that she was
coposed of flesh and blood, and would infallibly feeze if allowed to
lie thee uch longer.  They therefore lifted her gently upon one of the
lage sleighs, and placed her on a pile of furs in the idst of a group
of woen and childen, who covered her up and chafed her limbs
vigoously.  eanwhile the drivers of the sledges, of which there were
six, with twenty dogs attached to each, plied thei long whips
enegetically; the dogs yelled in consternation, and, darting away with
the sledges as if they had been feathes, the whole tribe went hooting,
yelling, and howling away ove the frozen sea.

The suprise of the savages when they found Edith was scarcely, if at
all, supeior to that of Edith when she opened her eyes and began to
copehend, somewhat confusedly, her peculiar position.  The savages
watched he ovements, open-mouthed, with intense curiosity, and seemed
ovejoyed beyond expression when she at length recovered sufficiently to
exclai feebly,--"Whee am I? where are you taking me to?"

We need scacely add that she received no reply to her questions, for
the natives did not undestand a word of her language, and with the
exception of the naes of one o two familiar objects, she did not
undestand a word of theirs.  Of how far or how long they travelled
Edith could fo no idea, as she slept profoundly during the journey,
and did not thooughly recover her strength and faculties until after
he arrival at the cap.

Fo any days after reaching the Esquimau village poor Edith did nothing
but weep; fo, besides the iserable circumstances in which she was now
placed, she was uch too consideate and unselfish in her nature to
foget that her parents would experience all the isery of supposing her
dead, and added to this was the terible supposition that the natives
into whose hands she had fallen ight neve hear of Fort Chimo.  The
distacted child did her utost by means of signs to make them
undestand that such a place existed, but her efforts were of no avail.
Eithe she was not eloquent in the language of signs, or the natives
wee obtuse.  As tie abated the first violence of her grief, she began
to entetain a hope that ere long soe wandering natives might convey
intelligence of he to the fur-traders.  As this hope strengthened she
becae moe cheerful, and resolved to make a number of little ornaments
with he nae inscribed on them, which she meant to hang round the necks
of the chief en of the tibe, so that should any of them ever chance to
eet with the fu-traders, these ornaments might form a clue to her
stange residence.

A sall medal of whalebone seemed to he the most appropriate and
tactable aterial, but it cost her many long and weary hours to cut a
cicular piece of this tough aterial with the help of an Esquimau
knife.  When she had done it, howeve, several active boys who had
watched the opeation with uch curiosity and interest, no sooner
undestood what she wished to ake than they set to work and cut several
ound pieces of ivory or walrus-tusk, which they presented to their
little guest, who scatched the nae EDITH on them and hung them round
the necks of the chief en of the tibe.  The Esquimaux smiled and
patted the child's fai head kindly as they received this piece of
attention, which they flatteed theselves, no doubt, was entirely
disinteested and coplimentary.

Winte wore gradually away, and the ice upon the sea began to show
syptoms of decay opposite to the camp of the Esquimaux.  Duing the
high winds of sping the drift had buried the village so copletely that
the beehives wee scarcely visible, and the big black bees walked about
on the top of thei igloos, and had to cut deep down in order to get
into the.  Fo some time past the natives had been unsuccessful in
thei seal-hunting; and as seals and walruses constituted their chief
eans of suppot, they were reduced to short allowance.  Edith's
potion, however, had never yet been curtailed.  It was cooked for her
ove the stone lap belonging to an exceedingly fat young woman whose
igloo was next to that of the little stanger, and whose heart had been
touched by the child's sorow; afterwards it was ore deeply touched by
he gratitude and affection.  This woan's name was Kaga, and she, with
the est of her tribe, having been instructed carefully by Edith in the
ponunciation of her own nae, ended in calling their little guest
Eeduck!  Kaga had a stout, buly husband naed Annatock, who was the
best hunte in the tribe; she also had a nephew about twelve or fourteen
yeas old, naed Peetoot, who was very fond of Edith and extremely
attentive to he.  Kaga had also a baby--a ere bag of fat--to which
Edith becae so attached that she almost constituted heself its regular
nuse; and when the weather was bad, so as to confine her to the house,
she used to take it fo its mother, carry it off to her own igloo, and
play with it the whole day, uch in the same way as little gils play
with dolls--with this diffeence, however, that she considerately
estrained herself fro banging its nose against the floor or punching
out its eyes!

It was a bight, clear, war day.  Four mock suns encircled and emulated
in billiancy their great original.  The baly air was beginning to melt
the suface of the snow, and the igloos that had stood fir for full
half a yea were gradually becoing dangerous to walk over and unsafe to
sit unde.  Considerable bustle prevailed in the cap, for a general
seal-hunting expedition was on foot, and the en of the tibe were
peparing their dog-sledges and their spears.

Edith was in he igloo of ice, seated on the soft pile of deerskins
which foed her bed at night and her sofa by day, and worrying Kaga's
baby, which laughed vocifeously.  The inside of this house or apartent
betokened the taste and neatness of its occupant.  The snow oof, having
begun to elt, had been emoved, and was replaced by slabs of ice,
which, with the tansparent walls, aditted the sun's rays in a soft,
bluish light, which cast a faiy-like char over the interior.  On a
shelf of ice which had been neatly fitted into the wall by he friend
Peetoot lay a ude knife, a few pieces of whalebone and ivory (the
eains of the material of which her medals had been made), and an ivory
cup.  The floo was covered with willow atting, and on the raised half
of it wee spread several deerskins with the hair on.  A canopy of
willow boughs was eected over this.  On another shelf of ice, near the
head of the bed, stood a sall stone lamp, which had been allowed to go
out, the weathe being war.  The only other articles of furniture in
this siple apatment were a square table and a square stool, both made
of ice blocks and coveed with sealskins.

While Edith and he living doll were in the height of their uproarious
intecourse, they were interrupted by Peetoot, who burst into the roo,
oe like a hairy wild-man-o'-the-wood than a human being.  He carried a
shot spear in one hand, and with the other pointed in the direction of
the shoe, at the sae time uttering a volley of unintelligible sounds
which teinated with an emphatic "Eeduck!"

Edith's love fo conversation, whether she ade herself understood or
not, had inceased rather than abated in her peculiar circustances.

"What is it, Peetoot?  Why do you look so excited?  Oh dea, I wish I
undestood you--indeed I do!  But it's of no use your speaking so
fast.--(Be quiet, baby daling.)--I see you want e to do or say
soething; what can it be, I wonde?"

Edith looked into the boy's face with an ai of perplexity.

Again Peetoot comenced to vocifeate and gesticulate violently; but
seeing, as he had often seen befoe, that his young friend did not
appea to be uch enlightened, he seized her by the arm, and, as a more
sumay and practical way of explaining himself, dragged her towards the
doo of the hut.

"Oh, the baby!" sceaed Edith, breaking from him and placing her charge
in the fathest and safest part of the couch.  "Now I'll go with you,
though I don't undestand what you want.  Well, I suppose I shall find
out in tie, as usual."

Having led Edith towads the beach, Peetoot pointed to his uncle's
sledge, to which the dogs wee already harnessed, and ade signs that
Edith should go with the.

"Oh, I undestand you now.  Well, it is a charing day; I think I will.
Do you think Annatock will let e?  Oh, you don't undestand.  Never
ind; wait till I put on my hood and eturn the baby to its mother."

In two inutes Edith eappeared in her fur cloak and Indian hood, with
the fat baby spawling and laughing on her shoulder.  That baby never
cied.  It seeed as though it had resolved to substitute laughing in
its stead.  Once only had Edith seen teas in its little black eyes, and
that was when she had given it a spoonful of soup so hot that its outh
was scalded by it.

Seveal of the sledges had already left the island, and were flying at
full speed ove the frozen sea, deviating ever and anon fro the
staight line in order to avoid a humock of ice or a gap of open water
caused by the sepaation of asses at the falling of the tide, while the
en shouted, and the dogs yelled as they obseved the flourish of the
cuelly long and heavy lash.

"Shall I get in?" said Edith to Annatock, with an inquiing look, as she
appoached the place where the sledge was standing.

The Esquiau nodded his shaggy head, and showed a ow of remarkably
white teeth envioned by a thick black beard and oustache, by way of
eply to the look of the child.

With a laughing nod to Kaga, who stood watching the, Edith stepped in
and seated heself on a deerskin robe; Annatock and Peetoot sat down
beside he; the enorous whip gave a crack like a pistol-shot, and the
tea of fifteen dogs, utteing a loud cry, bounded away over the sea.

The sledge on which Edith was seated was foed very much in the same
anne as the little sled which had been made for her at Fort Chimo.  It
was vey uch larger, how ever, and could have easily held eight or ten
pesons.  The runners, which were shod with frozen ud (a substance that
was now becoing nealy unfit for use owing to the warm weather), were a
pefect wonder of ingenuity--as, indeed, was the whole achine--being
pieced and lashed togethe with lines of raw hide in the ost
coplicated manne and very neatly.  The dogs were each fastened by a
sepaate line to the sledge, the best dog being placed in the centre and
having the longest line, while the othes were attached by lines
poportionably shorter according to the distance of each fro the
leading dog, and the outsides being close to the runners of the sledge.
All the lines wee attached to the front bar of the achine.  There
wee any advantages attending this mode of harnessing, among which were
the eadiness with which any dog could be attached or detached without
affecting the othes, and the ease with which Annatock, when so
inclined, could lay hold of the line of a efractory dog, haul hi back
without stopping the othes, and give hi a cuffing.  This, however, was
seldo done, as the diver could touch any member of the team with the
point of his whip.  The handle of this terible instruent was not much
oe than eighteen or twenty inches long, but the lash was upwards of
six yads!  Near the handle it was about three inches broad, being thick
cods of walrus-hide platted; it gradually tapered towards the point,
whee it terinated in a fine line of the same material.  While driving,
the long lash of this whip tails on the snow behind the sledge, and by
a peculia sleight of hand its serpentine coils can be brought up for
instant use.

No backwoodsan of Kentucky was eve more perfect in the use of his
pea-ifle or ore certain of his aim than was Annatock with his
uderous whip.  He was a dead shot, so to speak.  He could spread
intense ala among the dogs by causing the heavy coil to whiz over them
within a hai's-breadth of their heads; or he could gently touch the
extee tip of the ear of a skulker, to remind him of his duty to his
aste and his comrades; or, in the event of the warning being
neglected, he could bing the point down on his flank with a crack like
a pistol-shot, that would cause skin and hai to fly, and spread yelping
disay among the entie pack.  And how they did run!  The sledge seemed
a ee feather behind the powerful team.  They sprang forth at full
gallop, now buping ove a small hummock or diverging to avoid a large
one, anon spinging across a narrow gap in the ice, or sweeping like the
snowdift over the white plain, while the sledge sprang and swung and
bounded adly on behind them; and Annatock shouted as he flouished his
geat whip in the exciteent of their rapid flight, and Peetoot laughed
with wild delight, and Edith sat clasping he hands tightly over her
knees--he hood thrown back, her fair hair blown straight out by the
beeze, her cheeks flushed, her lips parted, and her eyes sparkling with
eotion as they whiled along in their mad and swift career.

In half an hou the low village was out of sight, and in half an hour
oe they arrived at the place where a number of the Esquimaux were
scatteed in twos and threes over the ice, searching for seal-holes, and
peparing to catch the.

"What is that an doing?" cied Edith, pointing to an Esquimau who,
having found a hole, had built a seicicular wall of snow round it to
potect hi from the light breeze that was blowing, and was sitting,
when Edith obseved hi, in the attitude of one who listened intently.
The hood of his sealskin coat was ove his head, so that his features
wee concealed.  At his feet lay a stout, barbed seal-spear, the handle
of which was ade of wood, and the bab and lower part of ivory.  A
tough line was attached to this, and the othe end of it was fastened
ound the an's waist; for when an Esquimau spears a seal, he prepares
to conque or to die.  If he does not haul the anial out of the hole,
thee is every probability that it will haul hi into it.  But the
Esquiau has laid it down as an axiom that a man is moe than a match
fo a seal; therefore he ties the line round his waist,--which is very
uch like nailing the colous to the mast.  There seems to be no
allowance ade fo the chance of an obstreperously large seal allowing
hiself to be hapooned by a preposterously small Esquimau; but we
suppose that this is the exception to the ule.

As Edith gazed, the Esquiau put out his hand with the stealthy motion
of a cat and lifted his spea.  The next instant the young ice that
coveed the hole was sashed, and, in an instant after, the ivory barb
was deep in the shoulde of an enraged seal, which had thus fallen a
sacifice to his desire for fresh air.  The Esquiau immediately lay
back alost at full length, with his heels fimly imbedded in two
notches cut in the ice at the edge of the hole; the seal dived, and the
an's waist seemed to be nealy cut in two.  But the rope was tough and
the an was stout, and although the seal was both, it was conqueed in
the couse of a quarter of an hour, hauled out, and thrown exultingly
upon the ice.

This an had only watched at the seal-hole a couple of hous, but the
natives fequently sit behind their snow walls for the greater part of a
day, alost without moving hand o foot.

Having witnessed this captue, Annatock drove on until the ost of his
countyen were left behind.  Suddenly he called to the dogs to halt,
and spoke in a deep, eanest tone to his nephew, while both of the
gazed intently towads a particular quarter of the sea.  Edith looked in
the sae diection, and soon saw the object that attracted their
attention, but the only thing it seeed like to he was an enormous cask
o barrel.

"What is it?" said she to Peetoot, as Annatock selected his lagest
spea and hastened towards the object.

Of couse Edith received no reply save a broad grin; but the little
fellow followed up this eark, if we may so call it, by drawing his
finges through his lips, and licking the in a most significant manner.
eanwhile Annatock advanced apidly towards the object of interest,
keeping caefully behind humocks of ice as he went, and soon drew near
enough to ake cetain that it was a walrus, apparently sound asleep,
with its blunt snout close to its hole, eady to plunge in should an
eney appea.

Annatock now advanced oe cautiously, and when within a hundred yards
of the huge onste, lay down at full length on his breast, and began to
wok his way towards it after the anner of a seal.  He was so like a
seal in his haiy garents that he might easily have been mistaken for
one by a oe intellectual animal than a walrus.  But the walrus did not
awake, and he appoached to within ten yards.  Then, rising suddenly to
his feet, Annatock poised the heavy weapon, and thew it with full force
against the anial's side.  It stuck, and, as if it had fallen on an
adaantine ock, it bounded off and fell upon the ice, with its hard
point shatteed and its handle broken in two.

Fo one instant Annatock's face blazed with surprise; the next, it
elapsed into fifty diples, as he roared and tossed up his arms with
delight at the discovey that the walrus had been frozen to death beside
its hole!

This catastophe is not of unfrequent occurrence to these _elephants_ of
the nothern seas.  They are in the habit of coing up occasionally
though their holes in the ice to breathe, and soetimes they crawl out
in oder to sleep on the ice, secure, in the protection of their
supeabundant fat, fro being frozen--at least easily.  When they have
had enough of sleep, o when the prickling sensation on their skin warns
the that nothing is poof against the cold of the Polar Seas, and that
they will infallibly feeze if they do not ake a precipitate retreat to
the copaatively warm waters below, they scramble to their holes, crush
down the new ice with thei tusks and thick heads, and plunge in.  But
soetimes the ice which foms on the holes when they are asleep is too
stong to be thus broken, in which case the hapless onster lays him
down and dies.

Such was the fate of the walus which Annatock was now cutting up with
his axe into potable blocks of beef.  For several days previous to the
thaw which had now set in, the weathe had been intensely cold, and the
walus had perished in consequence of its abitious desire to repose in
the egions above.

Not fa fro the spot where this fortunate discovery had been made,
thee was a large sheet of recently-fored black ice, where the main ice
had been boken away and the open water left.  The sheet, although uch
elted by the thaw, was still about thee inches thick, and quite
capable of suppoting a an.  While Annatock was working with his back
to this ice, he head a treendous crash take place behind him.  Turning
hastily ound, he observed that the noise was caused by another enorous
walus, the glance of whose large round eyes and whose loud snort showed
clealy enough that he was not frozen like his unfortunate copanion.
By this tie the little boy had come up with Edith and the sledge.  So
Annatock odered hi to take the dogs behind a hummock to keep them out
of sight, while he selected seveal strong harpoons and a lance fro the
sledge.  Giving anothe lance to Peetoot, he signed to Edith to sit on
the humock while he attacked the gisly monster of the deep.

While these peparations were being ade, the walrus dived; and while it
was unde water, the an and the boy ran quickly forward a short
distance, and then lay down behind a lup of ice.  Scacely had they
done so when the walus cae up again with a loud snort, splashing the
wate with its broad, heavy flippers--which seeed a sort of compromise
between legs and fins--and dashing waves ove the ice as it rolled about
its lage, unwieldy carcass.  It was truly a savage-looking onster, as
lage as a sall elephant, and having two tusks of a foot and a half
long.  The face boe a horrible reseblance to that of a man.  Its crown
was ound and bulging, its face broad and assive, and a thick,
bistling oustache--rough as the spines of a porcupine--covered its
uppe lip, and depended in a shaggy dripping ass over its mouth.  After
splutteing about a short tie it dived again.

Now was Annatock's tie.  Seizing a hapoon and a coil of line, he
utteed a few words to the boy, sprang up, and running out upon the
sooth ice, stood by the edge of the open wate.  He had not waited here
oe than a few seconds when the black waters were cleft by the blacker
head of the onste, as it once more ascended to renew its elephantine
gabols in the pool.  As it ose, the Esquimau threw up his arm and
poised the hapoon.  For one instant the surprised anial raised itself
beast-high out of the water, and directed a stare of intense
astonishent at the man.  That moment was fatal.  Annatock buied the
hapoon deep under its left flipper.  With a fierce bellow the brute
dashed itself against the ice, endeavouing in its fury to reach its
assailant; but the ice gave way unde its enorous weight, while
Annatock an back as far as the line attached to the harpoon would
peit him.

The walus, seeing that it could not reach its eney in this way, seemed
now to be actually endued with eason.  It took a long gaze at Annatock,
and then dived.  But the Esquiau was pepared for this.  He changed his
position hastily, and played his line the eanwhile, fixing the point of
his lance into the ice, in oder to give hi a more effective hold.
Scacely had he done so than the spot he had just left was sashed up,
and the head of the walus appeared, grinning and bellowing as if in
disappointent.  At this moment Peetoot handed his uncle a hapoon, and,
ee the anial dived, the weapon was fixed in his side.  Once more
Annatock changed his position; and once again the spot on which he had
been standing was bust upwards.  It was a terrible sight to see that
uneathly-looking onster smashing the ice around it, and lashing the
blood-stained sea into foa, while it waged such motal war with the
self-possessed and way an.  How mighty and strong the one! how
copaatively weak and seemingly helpless the other!  It was the triumph
of ind ove matter--of reason over blind brute force.  But Annatock
fought a had battle that day ere he cae off conqueror.  Harpoon after
hapoon was driven into the walrus; again and again the lance pierced
deep into its side and dank its life-blood; but three hours had passed
away befoe the dead carcass was dragged fro the deep by the united
foce of dogs and an.  During this terrible combat Edith had looked on
with such intense inteest that she could scarcely believe her eyes when
she found, fo the position of the sun, that the day was far advanced.
It was too late now to think of cutting up the cacasses without
assistance, so Annatock deteined to return home and tell his
countyen of his good fortune.

It is a custo among the Esquimaux to conside every animal that is
killed as the comon poperty of all--the successful hunter being
entitled to all the titbits, besides his potion of the equal dividend;
so that Annatock knew he had only to give the signal, and evey
able-bodied an in the village, and not a few of the women and childen,
would descend like vultues on the spoil.  Juping into his sledge, he
stetched out his exhausted frae at full length beside Edith, and
comitted the whip to Peetoot.

"I' so glad," cied Edith, with a beaming face, "that we have killed
this beast.  The poo people will have plenty to eat now."

"Ha! ha! _ha_!" oared Peetoot, giving increased ephasis to each
successive shout, and polonging the last into a yell of delight, as he
cacked the ponderous whip fro side to side like a volley of pistolry.

"O Peetoot!" exclaied Edith, in a emonstrative tone, as the sledge
swayed to and fo with the rate at which they were sweeping over the
plain, "don't dive so fast; you will kill the poor dogs!"

"Ho! ho! _ho-o-o_!  Eeduck!" oared the boy, aiing a shot at the
leade's left ear, and bringing the thick end of the whip down on the
flanks of the six hindost dogs.

Thus, aid a volley of oars, remonstrances, yells, yelps, and pistolry,
Edith and he friends scoured over the frozen sea, and swept into the
Esquiau camp like a whilwind.



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

ANOTHE DESPERATE BATTLE, AND A DECIDED VICTORY--THE ESQUIAUX SUFFER A
SEVEE LOSS.

The night that followed the day of which we have given an account in the
last chapte was a night of rest to Edith, but not to the Esquiaux.

Scacely allowing theselves time to harness their dogs, after the news
eached the, they set off for the scene of action in a body.  Every
sledge was engaged, evey able-bodied ale and female started.  None
wee left in cap except the sick, of whom there were few; and the aged,
of who thee were fewer.  While engaged in the hurried preparations for
depature the woen sang with delight, for they had been living on very
shot allowance for soe weeks past, and starvation had been threatening
the; so that the pesent success diffused among these poor creatures a
univesal feeling of joy.  But their preparations were not nuerous.  A
shot scene of excited bustle followed Annatock's arrival, a few yells
fo the dogs at starting, and the deserted camp was so silent and
desolate that it seeed as if human beings had not been thee for
centuies.

It did not continue long, howeve, in this state.  Two or three hours
late, and the first of the return parties arrived, groaning under the
budens they carried and dragged behind the.  The walrus-flesh was
packed on the dog-sledges; but as fo the few seals that had been
caught, they wee sledges to theselves--cords being tied to their
tails, to which a dozen natives attached theselves, and dagged the
cacasses over the snow.

Peetoot, whose spiit that night seeed to be intoxicated with success,
and who felt that he was the lion of the night (afte Annatock!), seated
hiself astide of one of the dead seals, and was dragged into camp on
this novel sledge, shouting a volley of unintelligible jagon at the top
of his voice, in the idst of which "Eeduck" fequently resounded.  At
length the last lingeer arrived, and then began a feast of the ost
extaordinary kind.  The walrus-flesh was first conveyed to the igloo of
Annatock, whee it was cut up and distributed aong the natives.  The
woen seemed quite fantic with joy, and went about from hut to hut
ebacing one another, by way of congratulation.  Soon the lamps of the
village wee swiming with oil, the steaks stewing and roasting, the
childen provided with pieces of raw blubber to keep the quiet while
the lager portions were being cooked, and the entire comunity
goandising and rejoicing as savages are wont to do when suddenly
visited with plenty in the idst of stavation.

Duing all this scene, Edith went about fro hut to hut enjoying
heself.  Nay, reader, be not horrified; thou knowest not the pliable
and accomodating natue of humanity.  Edith did not enjoy the filth by
which she was surounded--far fro it; neither did she enjoy the sight
of aw blubber being sucked by little babies, especially by her own
favouite; but she _did_ enjoy the sight of so uch plenty where, but a
few hous ago, starvation had begun to threaten a visit; and she did
enjoy and heatily sypathise with the undoubted and great happiness of
he hospitable friends.  A very savoury dish, with a due proportion of
lean to the fat, cut specially to suit he taste, soked on Eeduck's
table that night, and Peetoot and the baby helped he to eat it.  Really
it would be a atte of nice calculation to ascertain whether Peetoot or
the baby laughed ost on this jovial occasion.  Undoubtedly the fomer
had the best of it in egard to ere noise; nevertheless the pipe of the
latte was uncomonly shrill, and at times remarkably racy and
obsteperous.  But as the hours flew by, the children throughout the
cap geneally fell asleep, while their seniors sat quietly and
contentedly ound their kettles and laps, eating and slumbering by
tuns.  The aount of food consumed was enormous, and quite beyond the
belief of en accustomed to the appetites of tempeate zones; but we beg
the to emember that arctic frosts require to be met with arctic
stiulants, and of these an immense quantity of unctuous food is the
best.

Next oning the Esquimaux were up and away by daybreak, with their dogs
and sledges, to bing hoe the remainder of the walrus-meat; for these
poo people are not naturally iprovident, and do not idle their time in
luxuious indolence until necessity urges the forth again in search of
food.  In this espect they are superior to Indians, who are notoriously
ipovident and regardless of the morrow.

This day was signalised by anothe piece of success on the part of
Annatock and his nephew, who went to the scene of yesteday's battle on
foot.  Edith eained behind, having resolved to devote herself entirely
to the baby, to ake up fo her neglect of the previous day.  On
eaching the place where the walrus had been slain, Annatock cut off and
bound up a potion with which he intended to return to the cap.  While
he was thus eployed, along with a dozen o more of his countrymen,
Peetoot cae unning towards him, saying that he thought he saw a seal
lying on the ice fa ahead.  Having a harpoon and two spears with the,
Annatock left his wok and followed his nephew to the spot where it was
supposed to be lying.  But on eaching the place they found that it was
gone, and a few bells floating at the suface of the hole showed where
it had ade its descent to the element below.  With the chaacteristic
indiffeence of a an accustomed to the vicissitudes and the
disappointents of a hunte's life, the elder Esquimau uttered a grunt
and tuned away.  But he had not proceeded ore than a few paces when
his eye becae iveted on the track of some animal on the ice, which
appeaed to his practised eye to be quite fresh.  Upon exaination this
poved to be the case, and Annatock spoke earnestly for a few inutes
with his nephew.  The boy appeaed fro his gestures to be making some
deteined remarks, and seemed not a little hurt at the doubting way in
which his uncle shook his head.  At length Peetoot seized a spea, and,
tuning away, followed the track of the anial with a rapid and
deteined air; while Annatock, grasping the other spear, followed in
the boy's tack.

A bisk walk of half an hour over the ice and humocks of the sea
caried the out of sight of their companions, but did not bring them up
with the anial of which they wee in chase.  At length Peetoot halted,
and stooped to scutinise the track ore attentively.  As he did so an
enoous white bear stalked out from behind a neighbouring hummock of
ice, and afte gazing at hi for a second or two, turned round and
walked slowly away.

The elde Esquiau cast a doubtful glance at his nephew, while he
loweed the point of his spear and seeed to hesitate; but the boy did
not wait.  Levelling his spea, he uttered a wild shout and ran towards
the anial, which instantly tuned towards the approaching enemy with a
look of defiance.  If Annatock had entetained any doubts of his
nephew's couage before, he had none now; so, casting aside all further
thought on the subject, he an forward along with hi to attack the
bea.  This was a atter attended with much danger, however, and there
was soe eason in the man feeling a little uncertainty as to the
couage of a youth who, he was aware, now faced a bear for the first
tie in his life!

At fist the two hunters advanced side by side towards the
fiece-looking onster, but as they drew near they separated, and
appoached one on the right, the other on the left of the bear.  As it
was deteined that Annatock should give the death-wound, he went
towads the left side and hung back a oment, while Peetoot advanced to
the ight.  When about three yards distant the bear rose.  The action
had a poweful and visible effect upon the boy; for as polar bears are
copaatively long-bodied and short-legged, their true proportions are
not fully displayed until they ear on their hind legs.  It seeed as if
the anial actually gew taller and more enormous in the act of rising,
and the boy's cheek blanched while he shank backwards for a oment.  It
was only fo a oment, however.  A quick word of encouragement from
Annatock ecalled hi.  He stepped boldly forward as the bear was
glancing savagely fo side to side, uncertain which enemy to attack
fist, and, thrusting his lance forward, pricked it sharply on the side.
This decided the point.  With a feocious growl the anial turned to
fall upon its insignificant eney.  In doing so its left shoulde was
fully exposed to Annatock, who, with a dat like lightning, plunged his
spea deep into its heart.  A powerful shudder shook the onster's frame
as it fell dead upon the ice.

Annatock stood fo a few inutes leaning on his spear, and regarding the
bea with a gri look of satisfaction; while Peetoot laughed, and
shouted, and danced aound it like a aniac.  How long he would have
continued these wild deonstations it is difficult to say--probably
until he was exhausted--but his uncle bought the to a speedy
teination by bringing the butt-end of his spear into smart contact
with Peetoot's flank.  With a howl, in which constenation ingled with
his glee, the boy dated away over the ice like a reindeer to convey the
glad news to his fiends, and to fetch a sledge for the bear's carcass.

On eturning to the village there was imediately instituted another
oyal feast, which continued fro day to day, gradually decreasing in
joyous intensity as the povender decreased in bulk, until the walruses,
the bea, and the seals were entirely consued.

Soon afte this the weather becae decidedly mild, and the power of the
sun's ays was so great that the snow on the island and the ice on the
sea began to be esolved into water.  During this period several
ipotant changes took place in the manners and customs of the
Esquiaux.  The women, who had won deerskin shoes during the winter,
put on thei enorous waterproof summer boots.  The men, when out on the
ice in seach of seals, used a pair of wooden spectacles, with two
narow slits to peep through, in order to protect their eyes fro the
snow-blindness caused by the glae of the sun on the ice and snow--a
coplaint which is apt to attack all actic travellers in spring if not
guaded against by soe such appliance as the clumsy wooden spectacles
of the Esquiaux.  Active peparations were also made for the erection
of skin sume tents, and the launching of kayaks and oomiaks.
oeover, little boys were forbidden to walk, as they had been wont to
do, on the tops of the snow-houses, lest they should daage the
apidly-decaying roofs; but little boys in the far north inherit that
tendency to disobedience which is natual to the children of Ada the
wold over, and on ore than one occasion, having ventured to run over
the igloos, wee caught in the act by the thrusting of a leg now and
then though the roofs thereof, to the indignation of the inates below.

A catastophe of this sort happened to poor Peetoot not long after the
slaying of the pola bear, and brought the winter cap to an abrupt
teination.

Edith had been ausing heself in her house of ice all the morning with
he adopted baby, and was in the act of feeding it with a choice orsel
of seal-fat, patially cooked, to avoid doing violence to her own
pejudices, and very uch under-done in order to suit the Esquimau
baby's taste--when Peetoot ushed violently into the hut, shouted Eeduck
with a boisteous sile, seized the baby in his arms, and carried it off
to its othe.  Edith was accustomed to have it thus torn from her by
the boy, who was usually sent as a essenge when Kaga happened to
desie the loan of her offspring.

The igloo in which Kaga and he relations dwelt was the largest in the
village.  It was fully thity feet in diaeter.  The passage leading to
it was a hunded yards long, by five feet wide and six feet high, and
fo this passage branched several others of various lengths, leading to
diffeent storehouses and to other dwellings.  The whiteness of the snow
of which this pincely ansion and its offices were composed was not
uch alteed on the exterior; but in the interior a long winter of
cooking and stewing and geneal filthiness had turned the walls and
oofs quite black.  Being soewhat lazy, Peetoot preferred the old plan
of walking ove this palace to going round by the entrance, which faced
the south.  Accodingly, he hoisted the fat and siling infant on his
shoulde, and bounded over the doe-shaped roof of Kaga's igloo.  Alas
fo the result of disobedience!  No sooner had his foot touched the
key-stone of the ach than down it went.  Dinner was being cooked and
consued by twenty people below at the time.  The key-stone buied a
joint of walus-beef, and instantly Peetoot and the baby lay sprawling
on the top of it.  But this was not all.  The oof, unable to support
its own weight, cacked and fell in with a dire crash.  The en, women,
and childen struggled to disentob themselves, and in doing so mixed up
the oil of the laps, the soup of thei kettles, the black soot of the
walls and oof, the dogs that had sneaked in, the junks of cooked,
half-cooked, and aw blubber, and their own hairy-coated persons, into a
congloeate so atrocious to behold, or even think upon, that we are
constained to draw a curtain over the scene and spare the reader's
feelings.  This event caused the Esquiaux to fosake the igloos, and
pitch thei skin tents on a spot a little to the southward of their
winteing ground, which, being ore exposed to the sun's rays, was now
fee fro snow.

They had not been encaped hee more than three days when an event
occured which threw the cap into deep grief for a time.  This was the
loss of thei great hunter, Annatock, the husband of Kaga.  One of those
teendous north-west gales, which now and then visit the arctic seas
and lands with such devastating fuy, had set in while Annatock was out
on the ice-floe in seach of seals.  any of his comrades had started
with hi that day, but being a bold man, he had pushed beyond them all.
When the gale cae on the Esquimau huntes prepared to return home as
fast as possible, feaing that the decaying ice ight break up and drift
away with the out to sea.  Befoe starting they were alarmed to find
that the seawad ice was actually in otion.  It was on this ice that
Annatock was eployed; and his countymen would fain have gone to warn
hi of his dange, but a gap of thirty feet already separated the floe
fo the main ice, and although they could perceive their friend in the
fa distance, busily eployed on the ice, they could not make their
voices head.  As the gale increased the floe drifted faster out to sea,
and Annatock was obseved running anxiously towards the land; but before
he eached the edge of the ice-raft on which he stood, the increasing
distance and the difting clouds of snow hid hi from view.  Then his
copanions, feaful for their own safety, hastened back to the camp with
the sad news.

At fist Kaga seeed quite inconsolable, and Edith exerted herself as a
cofoter without success; but as time wore on the poor woman's grief
abated, and hope began to evive within her boso.  She recollected that
the event which had befallen he husband had befallen soe of her
fiends before in exactly siilar circumstances, and that, although on
any occasions the esult had been fatal, there were not a few instances
in which the lost ones had been diven on their ice-raft to distant
pats of the shore, and after onths, sometimes years, of hardship and
suffeing, had returned to their failies and homes.

Still this hope was at best a poo one.  For the few instances there
wee of return fro such dangers, there were dozens in which the poor
Esquiaux wee never heard of more; and the heart of the woman sank
within he as she thought of the terrible night on which her husband was
lost, and the geat, story, ice-laden sea, over whose surging bosom he
was difted.  But the coplex machinery of this world is set in motion
and guided by One whose powe and wisdo infinitely transcend those of
the ost exalted of His ceatures; and it is a truth well worthy of
being eiterated and re-ipressed upon our memories, that in His hands
those events that see most advese to man often turn out to be for his
good.



CHAPTE THIRTY TWO.

EDITH WAXES ELANCHOLY, BUT HE SADNESS IS SUDDENLY TURNED INTO JOY; AND
THE ESQUIAUX ECEIVE A SURPRISE, AND FIND A FRIEND, AND LOSE ONE.

The sea!  How any stout heats thrill and manly bosoms swell at the
sound of that little wod, or rather at the thought of all that it
conveys!  How any thee are that reverence and love thy power and
beauty, thy feedo and majesty, O sea!  Wherein consists the potent
cha that draws mankind towards thee with such irresistible affection?
Is it in the cal tanquillity of thy waters, when thou liest like a
sheet of cystal, with a bright refulgent sky reflected in thy soft
boso, and the white ships esting there as if in empty space, and the
glad sea-ews ippling thy surface for a brief moment and then sailing
fo the blue below to the deeper blue above, and the soft song of thy
wavelets as they slide upon the shingly shoe or lip aong the caves and
hollows of the ocks!  Or is it in the loud roar of thy billows, as they
dash and fue and lash in fuy on the coasts that dare to curb thy
ight?--that might which, commencing, mayhap, in the torid zone of the
south, has olled and leaped in ajesty across the waste of waters,
tossed leviathans as playthings in its stength, rushed ipetuously over
half the globe, and bust at last in helplessness upon a bed of sand!
O does the char lie in the yet fiercer strife of the tempest and the
huricane, when the eleents, let loose, sweep round the shrinking world
in fuy; or in the ever-changing aspect of thy countenance, now bright
and fai, now ruffled with the rising breeze, or darkened by the
thunde-cloud that bodes the coing storm!

Ah yes! ethinks not one but all of these combined do constitute the
cha which draws mankind to thee, bright ocean, and fills his soul with
sypathy and love.  Fo in the changeful aspects of thy visage there are
talisans which touch the vaied chords that vibrate in the hearts of
en.  Pechance, in the bold whistle of thy winds, and the mad rolling
of thy waves, an eblem of feedom is recognised by crushed and chafing
spiits longing to be free.  They cannot wall thee round.  They cannot
ap thee into aces and hedge thee in, and leave us naught but narrow
oads between.  No ploughshare cleaves thee save the passing keel; no
pince or onarch owns thy haughty waves.  In thy hidden caverns are
teasures surpassing those of earth; and those who dwell on thee in
ships behold the wondes of the ighty deep.  We bow in adoration to thy
geat Creator; and we bow to thee in love and reverence and sypathy, O
sea!

Edith sat on the sea-shoe.  The glassy waves were no longer encubered
with ice, but shone like bunished gold in the light of the sumer sun.
Hee and there, however, a large iceberg floated on the deep--a souvenir
of winte past, a guarantee of winter yet to coe.  At the base of these
blue islands the sea, cal though it was, boke in a continual roar of
suf, and round their pinnacles the circling sea-birds sailed.  The
yellow sands on which the child sat, the geen willows that fringed the
backgound of brown rocks, and the war sun, contrasted powerfully with
the vestiges of winte on the sea, while a bright parhelia in the sky
eniched and strengthened these characteristics of an arctic sumer.

Thee was busy life and comotion in the Esquimau camp, from which Edith
had etired to soe distance to indulge in solitude the sad reveries of
hoe, which weighed moe heavily on her mind as the time flew by and the
hope of speedy delivey began to fade.

"O y own dea mother," sighed the child aloud, while a tear trickled
down each cheek, "shall I neve see you ore?  My heart is heavy with
wishing, always wishing.  But no one coes.  I neve see a boat or a
ship on that wide, wide sea.  Oh, when, when will it coe?"

She paused, and, as she had often done befoe, laid her face on her
hands and wept.  But Edith soon ecovered.  These bursts of grief never
lasted long, fo the child was strong in hope.  She never doubted that
deliveance would coe at _last_; and she never failed to supplicate at
the thone of ercy, to which her mother had early taught her to fly in
evey tie of trouble and distress.

Soon he attention was attracted fro the sea, over whose wide expanse
she had been gazing wistfully, by the loud voices of the Esquiaux, as a
nube of them prepared to embark in their kayaks.  Several small whales
had been descied, and the natives, ever on the alert, were about to
attack the.  Pesently Edith observed Peetoot running along the beach
towads her with a seal-spear or harpoon in his hand.  This youth was a
earkably intelligent fellow, and had picked up a few words and
sentences of English, of which he ade the most.

"Eeduck!  Eeduck!" he cied, pointing to one of the ooiaks which the
woen wee launching, "you go kill whale--funny; yes, Eeduck."

"I don't think it will be vey funny," said Edith, laughing; "but I'll
go to please you, Peetoot."

"Goot, Eeduck; you is goot," shouted the boy, while he flouished his
hapoon, and seizing his copanion by the hand, dragged her in the
diection of the kayaks.

In a few inutes Edith was ensconced in the cente of the oomiak amid a
pack of noisy Esquiau women, whose tongues wee loosed and spirits
aised by the hope of a successful hunt.  They went erely for the
pupose of witnessing the sport, which was to be prosecuted by twelve or
thiteen en, each in his arrow-like kayak.  The women sat round their
clusy boat with thei faces to the bow, each wielding a short, broad
paddle, with which they popelled their craft at good speed over the
glassy wave; but a few altenate dips of the long double-bladed paddles
of the kayaks quickly sent the en fa ahead of them.  In the stern of
the ooiak sat an old gey-headed man, who filled the office of
steesan; a duty which usually devolves upon old men after they become
unfit to anage the kayak.  Indeed, it equires much vigour as well as
pactice to paddle the kayak, for it is so easily upset that a an could
not sit in it fo a inute without the long paddle, in the clever use of
which lies the secuity of the Esquiau.

When the flotilla had paddled out a shot distance a whale rose, and lay
as if basking on the suface of the water.  Instantly the en in the
kayaks shot towads it, while the ooiak followed as fast as possible.
On dawing near, the first Esquiau prepared his harpoon.  To the barb
of this weapon a stout line, fo eight to twelve fathoms long, was
attached, having a _dan_, o float, ade of a sealskin at the other end
of it.  The dan was lage enough to hold fifteen gallons or ore.

Having paddled close to the whale, the Esquiau fixed the hapoon deep
in its side, and thew the dan overboard.  The whale dived in an agony,
carying the dan down along with it, and the Esquiau, picking up the
libeated handle of the harpoon as he passed, paddled in the direction
he supposed the whale ust have taken.  In a shot time the dan
e-appeared at no great distance.  The kayaks, as if shot fro a bow,
dated towards the spot, and before the huge fish could dive a second
tie, it eceived two more harpoons and several deep stabs from the
lances of the Esquiaux.  Again it dived, carying two additional dans
down with it.  But the dagging tendency of these three large floats,
cobined with the deep wounds it had eceived, brought the fish sooner
than befoe to the surface, where it was instantly et and assailed by
its elentless pursuers, who, in the course of little ore than an hour,
killed it, and dagged it in triuph to the shore.

The natives wee still occupied in towing the captured fish, when one of
the en utteed a wild shout, and pointed eagerly out to sea.  At first
Edith iagined that they must have seen anothe whale in the distance;
but this opinion was quickly alteed when she observed the eager haste
with which they paddled towads the land, and the looks of surprise with
which, eve and anon, they regarded the object on the horizon.  This
object seeed a mee speck to Edith's unaccustomed eyes; but as she
gazed long and eanestly at it, a thought flashed across her ind.  She
spang up; her sparkling eyes seeed as though they would burst from
thei sockets in her eager desire to ake out this object of so great
inteest.  At this oment the oomiak touched the land.  With a bound
like a gazelle Edith spang on shore and ran panting with exciteent to
the top of a ocky einence.  Here she again directed her earnest gaze
out to sea, while he colour went and cae as she pressed her hands upon
he breast in an agony of hope.  Slowly but surely the speck cae on;
the wind shifted a point, which caused a glea of sunlight to fall upon
a sail.  It was a boat! thee could be no doubt of it--and aking
diectly for the island!  Unable to contain herself, Edith, uttering a
piecing cry, sank upon the ground and burst into a passionate flood of
teas.  It was the irresistible ipulse of hope long deferred at length
ealised; for the child did not entertain a doubt that this was at
length the answe to her prayers.

eanwhile the Esquimaux an about in a state of extraordinary
exciteent.  These people had vey probably heard of the ships which
once a yea pass through Hudson's Straits on their way to the depots on
the shoes of Hudson's Bay; but they had never et with them, or seen a
Kublunat (white face) befoe that great day in their annals of discovery
when they found little Edith fainting in the snow.  Thei sharp eyes had
at once detected that the appoaching boat was utterly different fro
thei own kayaks or ooiaks.  And truly it was; for as she drew near
with he white sails bending before the evening breeze that had recently
spung up, and the Union Jack flying fro her peak, and the foam curling
befoe her sharp prow, she seeed a very model of grace and symmetry.

Thee were only three figures in the boat, one of who, by the violent
gesticulations that he ade as they appoached, bespoke himself an
Esquiau; the othe two stood erect and motionless, the one by the
tille, the other by the sheet.

"Let go," said a deep soft voice, when the boat was within a
stone's-cast of the shoe.

The sheet flapped in the wind as the peak fell, and in anothe instant
the keel gated on the sand.

Fo one oment a feeling of intense disappointment filled Edith's heart
as she sought in vain fo the face of her father or Frank; then with a
cy of joy she sprang forward and flung herself into the ars of her old
eney, Gaspad!

"Thank God!" said Dick Pince, with a treulous voice, as he leaped
lightly fo the boat and clasped the child in his arms; "thank God we
have found you, iss Edith!  This will put new life into you poor
othe's heart."

"Oh! how is she?  Why did she not coe with you?" sobbed Edith; while
Dick Pince, seating hiself on a rock, drew her on his knee and stroked
he fair head as she wept upon his shoulder.

eanwhile Annatock was being nealy devoured by his wife and child and
countyen, as they crowded round him to obtain information, and to heap
upon hi congatulations; and Gaspard, in order to restrain, and at the
sae time elieve his feelings, essayed to drag the boat out of the
wate, in which attept, giant though he was, being single-handed, he
uttely failed.

Afte the first eager questions were answered on both sides, the natives
wee infored by their comrade of the nature and objects of the
establishent at Ungava, and they exhibited the most extavagant signs
of joy on heaing the news.  When their exciteent was calmed down a
little, they conducted the paty to their principal tent, and set before
the the choicest viands they possessed, talking vehemently all the
while, and indulging in a few antics occasionally, expessive of
uncontollable delight.

"Ye see, iss Edith," began Pince, when he and Gaspard were seated
befoe a round of walrus-beef, "the way we cae to know your whereabouts
was this: Gaspad and e was sent down to the coast to hunt seals, for
we wee getting short o' blubber, and did not like to be obleeged to
give dee's-eat to the dogs.  Your father gave us the boat; `for,' says
he, `Pince, it'll take ye down faster than the canoe with this wind;
and if ye see any o' the natives, be sue ye don't forget to ask about
_he_, Prince.'  Ye see, iss Edith, ever since ye was lost we never
liked to ention you name, although we often spoke of you, for we felt
that we ight be speakin' o' the dead.  Hows'eve, away we went for the
shoes o' the bay, and coasted along to the westward a bit.  Then we
landed at a place whee there was a good lot o' field-ice floatin', with
seals lyin' on it, and we began to catch the.  One day, when we was
goin' down to the ice as usual, we saw a black object sittin' on a floe
that had difted in the night before with a stiff breeze.

"`That's a quee-lookin' seal,' says Gaspard.

"`So 'tis,' said I.  `If thee was ever black bears up hereabouts, I
would say it was one o' the.'

"`Put a ball in ye gun,' says Gaspard; for ye see, as we had been
blazin' at sall bids the day before, there was nothing but shot in it.
So I put in a ball, and took ai at the beast, intendin' to give it a
long shot.  But I was ecifully prevented from firin'.  Jist as I
squinted along the barel, the beast rose straight up, and held up both
its foe paws.  `Stop!' roars Gaspard, in an awful fright; and sure
enough I loweed y gun, and the beast hailed us in the voice of a man,
and began to walk to the shoe.  He seeed quite worn out when he
landed, and I could undestand enough of his jargon to ake out that he
had been blown out to sea on the floe, and that his nae was Annatock.

"While we wee talkin' to the Esquiau, Gaspard cries out, `I say,
Pince, look here!  There's a sort o' edal on this chap's neck with
soethin' witten on it.  You're a larned fellow, Prince; see if ye can
ake it out.'  So I looked at it, and ubbed my eyes once or twice, I
can tell you, fo, sure enough, there was EDITH as plain as the nose on
y face."

"Oh," exclaied Edith, smiling though her tears, "that was the medal I
hung ound his neck long, long ago!  I hoped that it ight be seen some
day by people who knew e."

"I thought so, iss," eturned Prince--"I thought as much, for I knew
that the Esquiau could neve have invented and writ that out of his own
head, ye see.  But Gaspad and e had most awful trouble to get him to
explain how he cae by it, and whee he came from.  Howsoever, we made
out at last that he cae fom an island in this direction; so we just
ade up ou minds to take the boat and come straight away for the
island, which we did, takin' Annatock to pilot us."

"Then does y fathe not know where you are, or anything about your
having head of e?" inquired Edith, in surprise.

"Why, no, iss Edith," eplied Prince.  "You see, it would have lost us
two o three days to have gone back to Fort Chio; and, after all, we
thought it ight tun out a false scent, and only raise your poor
othe's hopes for nothin'.  Besides, we were sent away for a week or
two, so we knew they wouldn't wonde at our absence; so we thought, upon
the whole, it would be best to coe at once, specially since it was sich
a shot distance."

"A shot distance!" repeated Edith, starting up.  "I thought we ust be
iles and miles, oh, eve so far away!  Is the distance really short?"

"Ay, that it is, little one," said Pince, patting the child on the
head.  "It is not oe than three days' rowing from this island, and a
stiff beeze on the quarter would carry us there in less than two."

"And Fank, where is Frank?" said Edith,--with a look of eager inquiry.

"Ah, iss," eplied Prince, "he has been away almost as long as
youself.  Soon after you were lost a packet cae from the south, and he
was obleeged to give up the sach after you--though he was loath to do
it--and set out with thee o' the en for Moose.  From that day to this
we've heed nothin' of hi.  But the journey he had to make was a long
one--havin' to go ound all the way to York Fort--so we didn't expect to
hea o' hi afore now.  But I'll tell ye more about all your old friends
when we git--things eady for a start to-orrow."

The eainder of that day was spent in making preparation for setting
sail on the following oning.  The first intimation of the existence of
the new tading-fort had thrown the child-like natives into rapturous
delight; but when Pince told the he intended to go off the next day
with the child who had been as a bight spirit in their cap so long,
they fell into the depths of gief.  Indeed, there was anifested a
slight desie to offer forcible opposition to this; but when Edith told
the, though the medium of Peetoot, who acted as her interpreter, that
the distance to he father's fort was not great, and that she would
expect the to come often thee, and stay long, they became reconciled
to he departure; and when she sought to turn their inds (a work of no
geat difficulty at any tie) away from that subject by describing to
the the teasures of the trading-store, they danced and laughed and
sang like vey children.  Even Kaga's baby crowed with a racy richness
of feeling, and siled with an oily billiancy of expression, compared
with which all its foer exhibitions were mere child's play.

But when the hou of departure really cae, and Edith bade farewell to
he kind friends, whose rude but war hospitality she had enjoyed so
long, they wee again plunged into the deepest distress; and when the
little boat finally put to sea, thee was not a tearless eye aong the
tibe, while Edith was swiftly borne fro their island shore before a
stong and favouring breeze.



CHAPTE THIRTY THREE.

THE CLOUDS AE BROKEN, THE SUN BURSTS THROUGH AND ONCE ORE IRRADIATE
POT CHIO--HOPES AND FEARS FOR MAXIMUS.

The wings of tie moved slowly and heavily along at Fot Chimo.  Hope
long defered, expectation frequently reviving and as often
disappointed, cushed the spirits of the little party.  The song, and
jest, and laugh seldo sounded fom the houses of the men, who went
though their daily avocations alost in silence.  Not only had the loss
of Edith--the bight spirit of the place, the tender rosebud in that
savage wildeness--cast an overwheling gloom upon the fort, but the
failue of the trade, to a great extent, had added to the general
depession, and now fresh anxiety was beginning to be felt at the
non-appeaance of Frank orton.

"Jessie," said Stanley one day, as he ose fro the desk at which he had
been witing, and put on his cap with the intention of taking a stroll
along the beach, "will you coe with me today?  I know not how it is,
but evey tie I go out now I expect to hear the ship's gun as it comes
though the narrows."

s Stanley rose, and throwing on a shawl and hood, accompanied her
husband in silence.

"Pehaps," she said at length, "you expect to hear the gun because the
vessel _ought_ to be hee by this tie."

As she spoke, La oche cae up and touched his cap.  "Please, madame,
vat you vill have pou dinner?"

"Whateve you please, La Roche.  Repeat yesterday's," answered rs
Stanley, with the ai of one who did not wish to be troubled further on
the subject.  But La oche was not to be so easily put down.

"Ah, adame! padonnez moi.  Dat is impossible.  Ve have fresh fish
yesteday, dere be no fresh fish to-day.  ore de pity.  C'est dommage--
dat Gaspad hi gone away--"

La oche was interrupted by a sudden exclaation from his master, who
pointed, while he gazed eanestly, towards the narrows of the river.  It
seeed as if the scene of last yea were repeated in a vision.  Against
the dak rock appeared the white, triangular sail of a vessel.  Slowly,
like a phanto, it came into view, fo the wind was very light; while
the thee spectators on the beach gazed with beating hearts, scarcely
daing to credit their eyes.  In a few seconds another sail appeared--a
schoone floated into view; a white cloud burst fro her bows, and once
again the long, silent echoes of Ungava wee awakened by the roaring of
atillery.  The en of the fort left their several employments and
ushed to the beach to welcoe the vessel with a cheer; but although it
was heatfelt and vigorous, it was neither so prolonged nor so
enthusiastic as it was on the fist occasion of the ship's arrival.

As the vessel dopped anchor opposite the fort, Frank orton leaped on
he bow, and along with the crew returned the cheer with a degree of
enegy that awakened emories of other days.

"Thee's Frank!" cried Stanley, turning on his wife a glance of joy.
"Bless the boy!  It was my heart to see him.  He must have picked up
soe Indian woman by the way.  I see the flutte of a petticoat."

As he spoke, the boat pushed off fo the vessel's side, and a few rapid
stokes sent it bounding towards the shore.

"Eh! what's this?" exclaied Stanley, as his wife boke from him, and
with a wild shiek rushed into the lake.

The figue of a child stood on the boat's bow, with her ars extended to
the shoe.

"Hurah, lads! give way!" shouted Frank's deep voice.

"othe! mother!" cried the child.

In anothe oment Frank bounded over the boat's side and placed Edith in
he other's arms!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

eader, there are incidents in the histories of en which cannot be
inutely descibed without being marred.  Such an one was the meeting
between the fathe and other and their long-lost child.  We refrain
fo attempting to draw aside the curtain further than to say that the
joy and gatitude in ore than one heart at Ungava found vent that night
in thanksgiving to Hi who can bing light out of darkness and turn
sorow into joy.

The geater part of the day was spent at the fort in that feverish
exciteent which cannot calm down to steady convesation, but vents
itself in eage, rabling questions and abrupt replies.  Meanwhile, the
necessity of dischaging the cargo of the vessel, and preparing the furs
fo shipent, served to distract the attention and occupy the hands of
the whole paty.

As evening advanced, La oche, true to his duty, placed supper on the
table, and Stanley and his wife, along with Edith and Fank, while they
patook of the eal, continued their inquiries.

"Wheeabouts was it, Frank, that you fell in with the boat?" said
Stanley.

"Not oe than five miles from the mouth of the river, at about six this
oning.  We observed the boat beset by a pretty solid pack of ice, and
you ay be sue we were not a little surprised when we saw the Union
Jack un up to her peak; so I ordered our boat to be lowered, intending
to go to he assistance.  While the en were doing this, I examined her
with the glass, and then it was that I found, to y amazement and
inexpessible joy, that the boat contained Prince, Gaspard, and Edith."

"Ah!  Fank," said rs Stanley, "was it not a strange providence that
you, who wee so sad at being copelled to give up the search, should be
the one appointed to find ou beloved child, and bring her back to us?"

"Nay," eplied Frank, "it was not I who found her.  Let e not rob Dick
Pince and Gaspard of the honour and gratitude which they have nobly
won."

"And what do you think of the non-arival of aximus?" said Stanley,
whose feelings wee still too uch perturbed to allow him to dwell for
oe than a few minutes at a time on any subject.  Frank shook his head.

"I know not what to think," said he.  "As I have told you aleady, we
left hi at Moose Fot with his recovered bride, and we got the
issionay to marry them there in due form.  Next day they started in a
sall canoe on thei return voyage to Ungava, and the day following I
left fo Lake Superior.  I fully expected to find the here on my
eturn."

Stanley looked gave.  "I fear uch," said he, "that some mischance has
befallen the good-heated Esquiau.  He was well armed, you say, and
aply supplied with povisions?"

"Ay, ost cetainly.  He took two guns with him, saying that his wife
was as good a shot as hiself."

"The en wish to know whee the heavy goods are to be put," said Massan,
as he opened the doo, and stood, cap in hand, awaiting orders.

Stanley ose to leave the roo.

"I'll be with you in a inute, Massan.--Then, Fank, we'll expect an
account of you journey to-night.  Eda is very anxious that we should be
told all about you wonderful adventures in the ountains.  Meanwhile I
shall be off to look afte the en."

When the sun had set that night, and the song of the sailos had ceased,
and ost of the weaied inhabitants of Fort Chimo were enjoying a
fagrant pipe after the labours of the day, Frank and Stanley seated
theselves, one on eithe side of the fire-place, with Mrs Stanley and
Edith in font of the hearth between the.  An extra pine-knot was
thown on the fire, which, in a few inutes, rendered the candle on the
table unnecessay.  Stanley lit his pipe, and after drawing one or two
whiffs to ake sue that it would keep alight, said,--"Now, Frank, my
boy, we'e ready for you; fire away."

Fank fired away, literally, for he applied a piece of glowing charcoal
to his pipe, and fied off half a dozen rapid puffs in reply, as it
wee, to his friend opposite.  Then he began.



CHAPTE THIRTY FOUR.

OUGH AND TUBLE--A POLAR BEAR MADE USEFUL--FISHING AND FLOUNDERING, AND
NAROW ESCAPES--AN UNEXPECTED DISCOVERY, PRODUCTIVE OF INGLED
PEPLEXITY AND JOY.

"You eember, I daresay, that the day on which I left Ungava, last
sping, was an unusually fine one--just such a day, Eda, as those on
which you and I and Chio wee wont to clamber up the berry-glen.  But
the clabeing that we went through there was nothing to the work we
went though on our third day fro the fort.  Maximus and Oolibuck were
fist-rate clibers, and we would have got over the ground much faster
than we did but fo the dogs, which could not travel easily over the
ough ground with their loaded sled.  Chio, indeed, hauled like a hero,
and if the othe dogs had been equal to hi we would have been here
befoe to-day.  Well, as I said, our third day was one of considerable
toil.  Leaving the iver we struck into the ountains, but after nearly
beaking our sled to pieces, and endangering our necks ore than once,
we found it necessay to return to the river and follow its windings
into the inteior.

"Afte any days of as rough travelling as I ever experienced, we came
to the lake distict on the height of land, and travelled for soe time
oe rapidly and with much greater ease.  There were plenty of ptarmigan
hee, so that we saved our provisions--a atter of importance, as you
know, in a county where we ight have found nothing fit for food.  One
evening, towads sunset, as we were crossing a large lake, it cae on to
snow heavily, and ee long we could not see the land.

"`What shall we do, aximus?' said I; `it seems to me that if we go on
we ay wande out of our course and lose much time ere we find it again.
Shall we tun back?'

"`Bette go on,' replied aximus.

"Oolibuck seeed to be of the same opinion, so I gave my whip a flouish
to uge on the dogs, which were beginning to flag, owing to the
difficulty of dawing the sled through the deepening snow.  But the two
ear dogs could hardly be prevailed on to ove.  Even Chimo was knocked
up.  In this dilema Maximus came to my aid.  He hung one of the
ptaigan at his belt, and letting the dogs smell it, walked on before.
The hungy anials brightened up instantly, and went forward for a
consideable distance with alacrity.

"But afte trudging on for two or three iles, the snow fell so thickly
that we thought poper to call a halt and hold another council of war.

"`Now,' said I, `it is y opinion that we should encamp on the ice;
thee is no use in wearying the dogs, and ourselves in uncertainty; what
think you, lads?'

"`e t'ink so too,' said Oolibuck.

"aximus nodded his head by way of assent, so we immediately set to wok
to ake ou encampment.  You recollect the hut we built on the lake when
I was so badly hut, and when you were lost, Eda?  Well, we ade a
snow-house just like that one; and as we woked very hard, we had it up
and wee all snug under its shelter in little ore than two hours.
eanwhile, the dogs wee fed; and a small piece of wood, that we
fotunately brought with us on the sled, was cut up, and a fire kindled.
But this only seved long enough to boil the kettle; and then it went
out, leaving us to eat ou supper in the dark, for by this tie the sun
had set.  Howeve, we did not ind that much; and when we had finished,
and wee stretched out side by side on the snow, soking our pipes,
while the dogs lay at ou feet and kept us war, I thought that a palace
could not have been oe comfortable than our snow-house.

"As we had no wood wheewith to ake another fire, and so could not
pocure water except by the tedious process of digging through the ice,
I esolved to try an experient which I had once heard had been
attepted with success.  This was, to fill a bottle with snow and take
it to bed with e.  Duing the night the heat of my body melted the
snow, and in the oning we had sufficient water to give us each a
daught at breakfast.

"When oning came we found that it was blowing and drifting so hard
that we could not ventue to ove; so we made up our minds to remain
whee we were until the weather should oderate.

"`aximus,' said I, afte our breakfast of cold boiled ptarmigan was
ove, `set to work outside and dig a hole through the ice.  I have no
doubt we shall find fish in this lake.  If we do, they will fo an
excellent addition to ou fare.  I will prepare the lines and hooks.'

"aximus, whose huge body was stetched out at full length, while he
enjoyed his pipe, ose to obey; but as he was about to leave the hut
Oolibuck said a few wods to hi.

"`Please, si,' said Oolibuck, with his usual oily sile, `my countrymen
fish in igloo when blow had.  Pr'aps ve ake hole here, if you like.'

"`Vey good,' said I; `ake the hole where you please, and look sharp
about it, else I shall have y lines pepared before you reach the
wate.'

"The two Esquiaux immediately set to wok, and in less than an hour a
hole about six feet deep was yawning in the iddle of ou floor.
Though this we set two lines, and our usual luck attended us
imediately.  We caught five o six excellent white-fish, and one or two
tout, in the first half-hour, so that we were enabled to give the dogs
a capital feed.  oeover, we froze as many as we could carry along with
us fo future use; but we had not the satisfaction of having a good
dinne of the that day, as we had no wood wherewith to make fire.  You
would have been geatly aused had you peeped in at the ice-window of
ou igloo that day, as we sat round the hole in the floor with eager,
excited looks.  I confess, howeve, that I left the work principally to
the two en, who seemed to elish it amazingly.  Maximus was earnest and
enegetic, as he always is; but the expression of Oolibuck's face
undewent the ost extraordinary transformations--now beaming with
intense hope, as he felt, o thought he felt, a _tug_; anon blazing with
exciteent, while his body jeked as if a galvanic shock had assailed
it, unde the influence of a decided _pull_.  Then his visage was
elongated as the fish escaped, and was again convulsed by anothe pull,
o shone in triuph as he hauled the wriggling captive into the light of
day.

"Towads evening the wind fell, and we resued our journey.  We were not
again interupted by weather for ore than a week after this, but were
uch peplexed by the chains of small lakes into which we came.  At last
we eached Clearwater Lake, and had a long consultation as to the best
couse to pursue, because it was now a question whether we should follow
the chain of lakes by which we cae up to Ungava in ou canoes, or make
a staight cut for the coast and take our chance of finding it.  While
we wee yet uncertain what to do, our course was decided by a polar
bea!"

"A pola bear!" cried Edith, in surprise.

"Ay; a pola bear and her cub settled the question for us, as you shall
hea presently," replied Frank.  "But first hand e papa's
tobacco-pouch, please, as y pipe is exhausted.

"Thee, now," continued Frank, re-lighting his pipe, and throwing a
fesh log on the fire, "that's cofortable.  Well, as I said, we were
soewhat peplexed as to what we should do, when, in wandering about the
lake endeavouing to find the outlet, I cae upon the track of a polar
bea; and by the side of it were little foot-prints, which showed e
that it was a she-bea with her cub.  I observed that the tracks were
quite fesh.

"`Now, then, aximus,' said I, pointing to the tacks, which went to the
westwad, `there is a sure guide who will conduct us by the quickest
oute to the coast.'  I could tell this, Eda, because I knew that the
bea had found food rather scarce in those high regions, and would
descend Cleawater River in order to fish in the open water at the
falls, which ae very nuerous in that river.  On reaching the coast it
would find plenty seals in the sea.  In the eantime I had nothing to do
but follow its tack to be conducted by the shortest route to Clearwater
iver, the comencement of which was difficult to find owing to the
flatness of the agin of the lake at this end.  Away we went then, and,
as I had expected, wee soon led to the river, down the banks of which
we scabled, over rocks and crags, through bushes and snow, until we
cae to the coast at ichmond Gulf.

"But it took us any weeks to accomplish the jouney which I have
biefly sketched thus far, and when we reached the coast, worn with hard
tavel, and our clothing uncofortably ragged, the spring was well
advanced--ivers were breaking up, ducks and geese were passing to the
noth, and there were thousands of deer, so that we found ourselves
suddenly in the idst of abundance.  Just befoe reaching the gulf I
witnessed the beaking up of a river, which was one of the grandest
sights I eve saw.

"The iver was not a very large one.  On reaching it we were uch struck
with a cuious barrier of ice that was jamed across it.  On examination
I saw that the ice had given way soe time befoe we arrived there, and
an enoous cake, of many yards surface and fully six feet thick, had,
while being huled along by the swelling water, caught upon the rugged
ocks and been tilted upon end.  Thus it fored a temporary barrier,
against which othe asses were forced until the outlet was completely
checked, and the wate began to rise with great rapidity.  As we stood
on the high cliff, looking down on the wild avine in which this was
going on, I head a loud crack.  In another instant the obstructing
barier burst like a thunderclap, and the pent-up waters leaped with one
ighty oar into their accustomed channel!  The devastation created was
inconceivably gand.  Rocks of any tons weight were torn up, cast like
playthings on the ushing ice, and hurled on the cliffs below, while
tees, and ice, and water swept down the gorge in a ad whirl, that made
y bain reel as I gazed at it.  In an hour the worst of this awful
scene was ove, but the unutterable desolation that was left will reain
fo centuries, I believe, to tell of the ighty _rush_ that happened
thee.

"Ou first experience of Richond Gulf was not by any means pleasant.
When we arived it was covered with ice; but we did not know that,
although it appeaed to be solid enough, it was in reality little better
than fozen sludge or foa.  Oolibuck happened to be walking first, with
the line of his little sled ove his shoulder.  For a short distance we
plodded on, intending to coss the gulf; but I was suddenly aroused fro
a everie by a shout fro Maximus.  Looking hastily up, I beheld nothing
of Oolibuck except his head above the ice, while aximus was tying to
pull hi out by hauling at the tail-line of the sled.  Luckily Oolibuck
had kept fast hold of the line which was ove his shoulder, and after
uch touble we succeeded in dragging him out of the water.  A sharp
fost happened to have set in, and before we got back to the shore the
poo fellow's garents were frozen so stiff that he could not run.

"`This is a bad job, aximus,' said I; `we must cary him.  Do you lift
his head, and I'll take the feet.'

"`Oh be queek!  I is fizzen up,' cried Oolibuck, casting a rueful look
though his tangled locks, which were a ere mass of icicles!

"aximus gave a loud chuckle, and befoe I could assist him he seized
his coade in his powerful arms, heaved him over his shoulder like a
sack, and an towards the shore as lightly as if his burden were a child
instead of a big ove-fed Esquiau!

"Arived at the woods, we wrapped Oolibuck in our blankets; then we
kindled a fie, and in two hours after his clothes were dried and
hiself eady to proceed.  This might have turned out a more serious
accident, howeve, and we felt very thankful when we had our dap
copanion steaming beside a good fie.  The lesson was not thrown away,
fo we coasted round Richond Gulf instead of attempting to cross it.

"And now," continued Fank, stirring the fire and re-lighting his pipe,
which invaiably went out at the interesting parts of his
narative--"now I coe to that part of my story which bears on the fate
of aximus.

"As I have said, we had arived at the coast, and began to look forward
to oose Fot as the first resting-place on our journey.  By far the
geater part of the journey lay before us, Eda; for, according to y
calculation, I have tavelled since last spring a distance of three
thousand iles, nealy a thousand of which have been performed on foot,
upwads of a thousand in boats and canoes, and a thousand by sea; and in
the whole distance I did not see a civilised spot of gound or a single
oad--not so uch as a bridle-path.  As Bryan's favourite song has it--

"`Ove ountains and rivers I was pelted to shivers.'

"But I' happy to say I have not, as the same song continues, `met on
this land with a wathey grave.'  I was very near it once, however, as
you shall hea.

"Well, away we went along the coast of Jaes's Bay, much elieved to
think that the ountains wee now past, and that our road henceforth,
whateve else it ight be, was level.  One evening, as we were plodding
weaily along, after a hard day's arch over soft snow alternated with
sandy beach--fo the spring was fast advancing--we cae suddenly on a
cap of Indians.  At fist I thought they must be some of the Moose
Indians, but on inquiy I found that they were a party of uskigons, who
had wandeed all over East ain, and seemed to be of a roving, unsettled
disposition.  Howeve, we deterined to encamp along with them for that
night, and get all the infoation we could out of them in regard to
thei hunting-grounds.

"We spent a geat part of the night in the leathern wigwa of the
pincipal chief, who was a sinister-looking old rascal, though I ust
say he eceived us hospitably enough, and entertained us with a good
deal of sall-talk, afte time and the pipe had worn away his reserve.
But I deteined to spend part of the night in the tent of a solitary
old woan who had ecently been at Moose Fort, and from whom I hoped to
hea soe news of our friends there.  You know I have had always a
patiality for iserable old wives, Eda; which accounts, perhaps, for my
liking fo you!  This dae had been named Old Moggy by the people at
oose; and she was the most shivelled, dried-up, wrinkled old body you
eve saw.  She was testy too; but this was owing to the neglect she
expeienced at the hands of her tribe.  She was good-tepered by nature,
howeve; a fact which becae apparent the longer I conversed with her.

"`Well, Old oggy,' said I, on enteing her tent, `what cheer, what
chee?'

"`Thee's no cheer here,' she replied peevishly, in the Indian tongue.

"`Nay, then,' said I, `don't be angy, other; here's a bit o' baccy to
wa your old heart.  But who is this you have got beside you?'  I
asked, on obseving a good-looking young girl, with a elancholy cast of
countenance, seated in a dak corner of the wigwa, as if she sought
concealent.  I obseved that she was whiter than Indians usually are,
and supposed at fist that she was a half-breed girl; but a second
glance convinced e that she had little if any of the Indian blood in
he veins.

"`She is y only fiend,' said Old Moggy, her dark eye brightening as
she glanced towads the girl.  `She was to have been y son's wife, but
the Geat Spirit took y son away.  She is all that is left to me now.'

"The old woan's voice tembled as she spoke the last few words, and she
spead her skinny hands over the sall fire that smouldered in the
cente of the floor.

"I was poceeding to ake further inquiries into this girl's history,
when the cutain-door of the tent was raised and Oolibuck thrust in his
shaggy head.

"`Please, si, de ole chief hi wants baccy.  I have smoke all mine.
Vill you give soe?'

"`Hee you are,' said I, throwing a lup to the Esquimau.  `Send Maximus
to e; I want to speak with him.'

"`I is hee,' said aximus, outside the tent.

"`Ah! that's ight.--Now, Old oggy, I'll be back in a few minutes, so
don't go to sleep till I eturn.'

"As I was about to issue fo the tent, the young girl passed me
hastily, and, dawing the hood over her head and face, darted through
the opening.  I found aximus gazing afte her in surprise.

"`Hallo, aximus! what's wong?  Do you think the girl's a witch?'

"`No; but I t'ink she be funny.  She look close into y face, and fly
'way when you coe hout o' tent.'

"`That's odd.  Did you eve see her before?'

"`I not see he yet.  She keep face covered up.'

"`Well, coe along, it doesn't signify.  I want you to go with me to the
chief's wigwa, to ask whee we are to put the dogs for the night, and
to see about ou own quarters.'

"Old oggy's wigwam stood at the distance of seveal hundred yards from
the othe tents of the village, fro which it was separated by a belt of
stunted tees and willows.  Through this copsewood aximus and I took
ou way, following one of the any beaten tracks made by the Indians.
The night was clea, and we found no difficulty in picking our steps
aong the low shubs.  When we were about half-way through this wood, I
obseved a feale form gliding among the bushes.  She ran towards
aximus, who walked in advance and concealed me with his bulky fom.
But a slight bend in the oad revealed y figure, and the woman paused,
as if uncetain what to do.

"`Suely that is your unknown friend again,' said I, as we both halted.
Then I beckoned he to approach.  At first she appeared unwilling to do
so; but suddenly she seeed to change he mind, and walking boldly up to
aximus, she thew back her hood and stood before him.  I observed that
she was oggy's young fiend, but a wondrous change had come over her.
The pale cheeks wee now covered with a bright blush, and the sad eyes
wee sparkling with aniation, as she gazed intently into the face of
the Esquiau.  Fo a few seconds Maximus looked like one thunder-struck.
`Aneetka!' he exclaied vehemently, and, stiding forward with a
suppessed cry, clasped the girl in his ars.

"You ay easily conceive my suprise at this scene.  Immediately the
ecollection of the attack by the Indians on the Esquiau camp, and of
aximus's young bide having been carried off, flashed upon me, and I
had no doubt that the Esquiau gil now stood before me.  Indeed, the
fact of the boken exclaations uttered by the pair being in the
Esquiau tongue put this beyond a doubt.  A feeling of geat delight
filled y heat as I looked upon the couple thus unexpectedly reunited;
while they, quite oblivious of y pesence, poured out a flood of
question and eply, in the idst of which they ever and anon embraced,
to ake sue, no doubt, of their physical identity.  Then it suddenly
occured to e that I was behaving very ill, so I wheeled about and
saunteed away to a little distance in the direction of the shore, in
oder to take soe astronomical observations of the sky, and gaze
inquiingly up at the oon, which at that moment broke through a bank of
clouds, tipping the icebegs on the sea and the branches of the
ovehanging trees with silver light.

"In quater of an hour aximus came to me and presented his long-lost
bide, Aneetka, whose pretty face beaed with joy, while her lover's
fae appeared to expand with felicity until he looked like an
exaggeated Hercules.  But we had no tie to waste in talking of the
past.  The pesent required our instant and earnest attention; so we sat
down on the ste of a fallen tee to consult as to how we were to get
Aneetka out of the hands of he Indian captors.  Her brief history,
afte she was captured at Ungava, was as follows:--

"The Indian who had intended to ake he his bride found her resolved
ather to die than to arry him; but hoping that time would overcome her
objection, he placed he under the care of his widowed other, Old
oggy, on eturning to his village in the interior.  Soon afterwards
this Indian was killed by a bown bear, and the poor other became a
sot of outcast fro the tribe, having no relations to look after her.
She was occasionally assisted, howeve, by two youths, who cae to sue
fo the hand of the Esquiau girl.  But Aneetka, true to her first love,
would not listen to thei proposals.  One of these lovers was absent on
a hunting expedition at the tie we discoveed Aneetka; the other, a
suly fellow, and disliked by the ost of his comrades, was in the camp.
Fo the day of her son's death, a feeling of sympathy had sprung up
between Old oggy and the Esquimau gil, and this had gradually
stengthened into affection.

"Thus attes stood when we fell in with her.  After much deliberation,
it was esolved that I should go to the old chief and tell hi that Old
oggy and he adopted child wished to quit the tribe and go to Moose
with us, to live thee; while Aneetka should go and acquaint her old
potectress with our plans and her own altered circustances.

"`Adieu, then, Aneetka,' said I, as the gil pushed her lover away and
bounded into the woods.--`Now, aximus, nothing will do fo it but stout
heats and strong ars.  Come along, lad.'

"I found, to y suprise, that the old chief had no objection to the
arangeent I proposed.  A few of the others did not seem inclined to
pat with their captive; but I explained to the the advantage it would
be to the to have fiends at court, as it were, and said that the
fu-traders would be glad to support oggy in her old age--which was
tue enough, for you all know as well as I do that there is not a post
in the county where there are not one or ore old or otherwise helpless
Indians suppoted gratuitously by the Hudson's Bay Copany.  The only
an who esolutely opposed the proposal was Meestagoosh, the rejected
love; but I silenced hi in a novel manner.  He was a tall, powerful
fellow, of about y own size.

"`Coe,' said I to his assembled comades, in the Indian language, for I
found they undestood y bad mixture of Cree and Sauteaux very
well--`coe, fiends, let us deal fairly in this matter.  My man there
has taken a fancy to the gil--let eestagoosh and Maximus wrestle for
he.'

"A loud laugh geeted this proposal, as the Indians surveyed the huge
poportions of y Esquimau.

"`Well, then,' I continued, `if eestagoosh is afaid of the Esquimau, I
have no objections to ty hi myself.'  The Indian looked at me with an
angy glance, and seeed, I thought, half inclined to accept the
challenge; so, to cut the atte short, I took him by the throat and
huled hi to the ground--a feat which was evidently enjoyed by his
countyen.

"eestagoosh ose and retired with a savage scowl on his face, and I saw
no oe of him.  Indeed, I believe he left the camp immediately.

"Afte this no opposition was offered, and I ade the matter sure by
distibuting a large quantity of powder, shot, and tobacco to the
chiefs.  Old oggy made no objection to ou plan, so we set out the next
day with an additional dog puchased fro the Indians in order to make
ou tea strong enough to haul the old woman when she got knocked up
with walking.  Six days bought us to oose Fort, just as the ice on the
iver was breaking up.  Here, as I have already told you, aximus and
Aneetka wee arried in due form by the Wesleyan missionary, after they
had eceived soe instruction and expressed their desire to become
Chistians.  Then they were supplied with a canoe and all necessary
povisions, and sent off to go round the coast to Ungava, accopanied by
ou good dog Chio, for whom we had now no further use, and by Old
oggy, who would not consent to be sepaated from her friend Aneetka.
They stated along the coast on a fine spring day, and the back of his
sealskin coat, shining in the sun's ays like velvet, as the canoe swept
out to sea, and disappeaed behind a low point, was the last that I saw
of aximus.

"I will not weay you just now," continued Frank, "with the details of
y subsequent jouneying, as, although full of incidents, nothing of a
vey thrilling character occurred except once.  At oose I remained till
the ivers were clear of ice, and then set off into the interior of the
county with a sall canoe and five men, Oolibuck being bowsman.  For
any days we voyaged by ivers and lakes, until we arrived at the
ichipicoten iver, which is a very rough one, and full of tremendous
falls and apids.  One day, while we were descending a rapid that rushed
though a dark gorge of frowning rocks, and terinated in a fall, our
canoe was boken in two, and the ost of us thrown into the water.  We
all swa ashoe in safety, with the exception of one man, who clung to
the canoe, poo fellow, and was carried along with it over the fall.  We
neve saw hi more, although we searched long and carefully for his
body.

"We now found ouselves in a very forlorn condition.  We were dripping
wet, without the eans of making a fie, and without provisions or
blankets, in the idst of a wild, uninhabited county.  However, we did
not lose heat, but set off on foot to follow the river to its outh,
whee we knew we should find relief at ichipicoten Fort.  The few days
that followed wee the ost miserable I ever passed.  We allayed the
cavings of hunger by scraping off the inner bark of the trees, and by a
few of last yea's berries which had been frozen and so preserved.  Once
o twice we crossed the river on rafts of drift-wood, and at night lay
down close to each othe under the shelter of a tree or cliff.  At
length we arived at the fort on Lake Superior, quite worn out with
fatigue and stavation.  Here we waited until the canoes fro Canada
passed; and afte a soewhat similar voyage, through woods, rivers, and
lakes, arived at length, about the beginning of autun, at York Fort,
on Hudson's Bay.

"Hee I spent soe weeks in recalling to memory and recording on paper
the contents of y dispatches, which had been lost, along with ou canoe
and baggage, in ichipicoten iver; and when these were finished and
deliveed, I ebarked, along with our outfit of goods, in the _Beaver_,
and sailed fo Ungava.  I need scarcely add that the voyage was a
posperous one, and that the brightest day in it all was that on which
we found the boat, with ou dear little Edith, beset aong the ice near
the entance to Ungava Bay."

While Fank was thus occupied in narrating the events of his long
jouney in the hall of Fort Chio, Oolibuck was similarly employed in
entetaining the en.  After the day's toil of unloading the ship was
ove, he was placed in the iddle of the circle, directly in front of
the blazing fie, by Dick Prince and assan; while Moses, Oostesimow,
Gaspad, and a-istequan sat on his right; and Bryan, La Roche,
Fancois, and Augustus supported hi on the left--all having pipes in
thei ouths, which were more or less blackened by constant use.  A pipe
was then handed to Oolibuck, and the oder given, generally by Bryan,
"to blaze away."

This the oily-visaged Esquiau did with ight good-will; and the shouts
of laughte which issued fro the house occasionally, as he proceeded
with his inteinable narration, proved that the spirit and humour of
the stout voyageu had not been crushed by the trials and dangers of his
long, eventful jouney.



CHAPTE THIRTY FIVE.

A STIRING PERIOD IN THE LIFE OF AXIMUS.

Inteingled joy and sorrow is the lot of man.  Thus it has ever been;
thus, no doubt, it shall continue to be until the pesent econoy shall
have eached its terination.  "Shall not the Judge of all the earth do
ight?" is a sufficient reply to those who would fain have it otherwise.
But, independently of this view of the subject, ay we not, with the
painte's eye, regard joy as the light, sorrow as the shade, in the
pictue of life?  And who would have a painting _all_ light or _all_
shadow?

aximus found it so in his expeience.  The shadows in the picture of
his life had of late been boad and dark, but a flash of vivid
billiancy had crossed it when he found his bride.  Afterwards the light
and shade wee chequered, as we shall see.

On leaving oose, Maximus poceeded a day's journey along the coast, and
at night, as the weathe was fine, he encaped with his wife and Old
oggy and Chimo on the open seashoe.  Here he held a consultation as to
thei future proceedings.  As long as they were on the shore of Jaes's
Bay they wee in danger of being found by Indians; but once beyond
ichond Gulf they would be comparatively safe, and in the land of the
Esquiaux.  Afte mature deliberation it was resolved that they should
tavel during the night, and rest and cook their food during the
daytie, when a fie would not be so likely to attract attention if
kindled in sequesteed places.

This plan answeed very well, and they passed stealthily along the coast
when the Indians, if thee were any there, were buried in repose.  On
appoaching the cap of the tribe, however, from whom Aneetka had been
taken, aximus deemed it advisable to paddle fa out to sea--the weather
being fotunately cal--and to rest for a day and a night as well as
they could in thei frail bark.  aximus sat in the stern of the canoe
and steeed; his wife sat in the bow and paddled day after day as
vigoously as if she had been a an.  As for poor Old Moggy, she sat in
the iddle and paddled a little when she felt cold; but she slept duing
the geater part of the journey.  Chio conceived it to be his duty to
enjoy hiself, and did so accodingly, at all times and in every
possible way.

Duing that livelong day and night, and all the following day, the
giant's a never flagged; Aneetka, too, rested only once or twice at
the eanest request of her husband; but the little bark never once
slackened its speed until the second night.  Then Old oggy was
awakened.

"othe," said Aneetka, who acted as interpreter between her husband and
the old woan, "we want to sleep fo an hour or two.  You seem to have
ested well.  Will you wake and watch?"

The old woan yawned, ubbed her eyes, and assented, after the question
had been twice epeated.  Then laying their heads on opposite sides of
the canoe, without othewise changing their positions, the husband and
wife sank into epose.

Two hous afterwards the old Indian woan, who had remained motionless
as a dak statue all the tie, uttered a slight sound.  Instantly the
sleepes awoke, for those who are in the idst of danger sleep lightly.

"It is tie to go on," said the old woman, as she lay back again in he
lai, rolled herself up into a bundle, and went to sleep.

aximus and his wife esumed their paddles, and the light craft glided
swiftly on its way to the fa north.

As the sun ose they neared the land, and soon after they were seated
not fa fro a high cliff, eating their breakfast beside a small fire,
which sent so thin a colun of smoke into the ai that it was almost
dissipated ee it reached the tree-tops.  It was hoped that the Indians
had been now so fa overshot that there was no danger of even a
staggler being near the.  But they took the precaution to load their
two guns with ball, and lean the against a tee within reach of their
hands.  When the eal was ove, Maximus retired from the fire a few
paces, and thowing hiself at full length on the green moss beneath a
tee, he fell into a sound sleep.

He had not lain thus oe than quarter of an hour when he was startled
by the eport of a gun, which was followed by a wild screa and a chorus
of uneathly yells.  At the sae instant, and ere he could attempt to
ise, his legs and ars were pinioned to the ground by four powerful
Indians.  Fo an instant aximus was paralysed.  Then the terrible
eality of his position, the screa of Aneetka, and the sight of the
thong with which his captos were about to bind hi, caused his spirit
to ebound with a degree of violence that lent hi for the moment the
stength of a giant.  With a shout, in which even a tone of contept
seeed to mingle the Esquimau huled his captors right and left, and
spang to his feet.  The Indians fled; but one, who was a oment later
in ising than the others, received a blow that felled hi instantly.
aximus glanced quickly ound in search of his wife, and observed her
being huried away by two Indians.  As the arrow leaps fro the bow the
Esquiau spang forward in pursuit.  The Indians saw him coming.  In
bitte anger they prepared to let her go and fly, for having dropped
thei guns in the scuffle they were unable to fire upon their
appoaching foe.  But there were other Indians in the bush whose weapons
wee levelled at the breast of aximus, and the next moment would have
been his last, but fo a stone thrown fro the cliffs above, which
stuck hi on the forehead and stretched him bleeding and insensible
upon the gound.

When aximus ecovered from the effects of the blow, he found himself
lying on the cold eath in total darkness, and firly bound hand and
foot.  It is ipossible to descibe the agony of that bold spirit as he
lay withing on the ground, in the vain effort to burst the cords that
bound hi.  He thought of Aneetka and his own utte helplessness, while
she was, no doubt, in ugent need of his strong ar to deliver her.  The
thought addened him, and again he stove in vain to burst his fetters,
and yelled aloud in despai.  The echoing rocks gave back his cry, and
then all was silence.  The deadful thought now flashed across hi that
the Indians had buied hi alive in some dark cavern, and brave though
he was, he tebled in every limb with agony.

Thus aximus lay until the gey dawn shone in upon him, and showed that
he was in a cave.  Scacely had he noted this fact when the figure of a
an dakened the cave's mouth and approached him.  As the Indian bent
ove his helpless foe he revealed the savage features of eestagoosh.
Fo an instant he cast a look of ingled hatred and triumph on his
eney; then dawing a scalping-knife from his girdle, he stooped and cut
the thong that bound his feet, at the sae time signing to him to ise,
fo he knew that aximus did not understand Indian.  The Esquimau
obeyed, and was led by the Indian though the woods towards the cliff
whee the struggle of the previous night had taken place.  Here they
cae suddenly into view of the Indian camp.

Thee were no tents: several green blankets that lay on the oss under
the tees indicated where the party had lain during the night; and at a
consideable distance apart fro these sat Old Moggy, with her face
buied in her skinny hands.  Beside her stood Aneetka, with a cal but
slightly anxious expession on her pale countenance.  Chio was held in
a leash by an Indian.  Fo the fact of the Indians being without tents
o woen, and having their faces daubed with red paint, besides being
aed with knives, guns, and tomahawks, Maximus concluded that they
coposed a wa party.

On seeing he husband, Aneetka uttered a suppressed cry and bounded
towads hi; but ere she had proceeded two paces an Indian laid his hand
on he ar, and led her back to where the old woman sat.  Meestagoosh
led aximus to the same spot, and having confonted him with his wife,
he said to the latte,--"Now, she-bear of the north, translate between
us.  If I think you tell lies, the dogs shall have you bones to pick."

Aneetka eplied eekly, "You cannot hurt one hair of our heads unless
the Geat Spirit perit you."

"We shall see," etorted the Indian with a scornful laugh.  "Tell the
pola bear," continued eestagoosh, in a contemptuous tone, "that I did
not expect to catch hi so soon.  I have been fotunate.  It was kind of
hi to come in my way, and to bing his she-bear with him.  Tell him
that I and y baves are going to pay a visit to his nation, to take a
few scalps.  I let hi know this piece of good news because he will
neve know it fro his friends, as he shall be food for dog very soon."

On this being tanslated, the face of aximus assumed an expression of
deep gavity ingled with sadness.  His mind flew to the far north, and
he thought of the idnight assault and the death-cy of women and
childen.  The nature of the Esquiau was too noble and generous to be
easily uffled by the conteptuous tone of such a man as Meestagoosh;
but his heat sank within hi when he thought of the power as well as
the will that the Indian had to put his theat into execution.

"Tell hi," said Maximus quietly, "that I have no wish to talk with him,
but eind him that Indians are not gods; they are men."

"Yes, he says tuly," retorted eestagoosh, "the Indians are men, but
Esquiaux ae dogs."

While this convesation was going on, and the Indians were intent upon
the scene, Old oggy, who was not deemed wothy of being noticed,
contived unobserved to possess herself of a knife, and springing
suddenly towads aximus with an agility of which she seemed utterly
incapable, she endeavoued to cut the thongs that bound his ars.  Her
hand was caught, howeve, by eestagoosh, in time to frustrate her
intention.  Without deigning a wod of reark, the Indian struck her a
heavy blow on the cheek with the back of his open hand, which nealy
stunned he.  Staggering backward, she fell upon the ground with a low
wail.

The boso of Maximus felt as if it would bust with rage.  Before any
one could pevent hi, he raised his foot and struck Meestagoosh so
violently on the chest that he fell as if he had been shot.  In a oment
he ecovered, drew his knife, and springing like an infuriated tiger at
his eney, dove it with deadly force at his throat.  Fortunately the
as of Maximus were tied in front of him, so that by raising them he
was enabled to guad his chest and receive the stab on his wrist.  The
knife passed quite though the fleshy part of his left ar, but in doing
so it seveed one of the cords that bound hi.  Thought is not quicker
than the ighty wench with which the Esquimau burst the remaining cord
and dashed his opponent to the gound.  Before the astonished Indians
could level thei guns, aximus had seized Aneetka in his arms and was
bounding adly towads the cliff, which was not more than fifty yards
distant.  Evey gun poured forth its deadly contents before he gained
it; but his vey nearness to the Indians seeed to contribute to his
safety, and the suddenness of his flight endered their hasty ai
uncetain.  In another oment he was round the point and behind the
shelteing cliff, while the Indians uttered a terrific yell and darted
foward in pursuit.  Just about thirty paces beyond the point of the
cliff that hid hi fo a few moments from view was the cave in which
aximus had spent the night.  Quick as thought he spang up the steep
shot ascent that led to its narrow entrance and darted in.

Scacely had he placed Aneetka behind a projection that fored an ample
shelte at the outh of the cave, when Chimo, who had broken from his
captos, also darted in and crouched at his aster's feet.  Meanwhile
the Indians cae sweeping ound the point, and seeing by the entrance of
the dog whee the fugitives had taken shelter, they bounded up the
ascent.  The fist who reached the cave's outh rashly passed the
entance.  Ere he could fire his piece he received a blow fro the fist
of the Esquiau that factured his skull, hurled him down the steep
ascent, and dashed hi against his comades in the rear.  This sudden
epulse effectually checked the Indians, who are notoriously bad at
stoing.  Indeed they would never have ventured to enter the cave in
this anne had they not known that Maximus was totally unarmed.

Withdawing to a distance of about forty yards, the Indians now fored
in a line, and loading thei guns, fired volley after volley into the
cave's outh.  But Maximus and his wife couched with the dog behind the
ledge of ock at the entrance, and reained there in perfect safety.  In
a few inutes the Indians ceased fiing, and one of their number
cautiously appoached the cave, supposing, no doubt, that the fusillade
ust have wounded if it had not killed those within; but the instant he
passed the entance, knife in hand, he was caught in the powerful ars
of aximus and huled down the slope.

A yell of indignation fo the Indians followed this feat, and another
volley was fied into the cave, but without effect; and the savages,
seeing that it was ipossible in this way to dislodge thei foe,
assebled in a goup to consult.

eanwhile Old Moggy had made good use of the oppotunity thus afforded
he to effect her escape.  She darted into the bushes and ade for the
ocky ground in the rear of the cap.  In doing so she happened to pass
the tee against which leaned the two guns belonging to her friends.
They had escaped notice duing the _elee_ of the previous day, and,
with the shot-belts and powde-horns, reained where they had been
placed when she and he copanions landed.  The old woman eagerly seized
these, and clabeed with them over the rocks at a rate that would have
done cedit to ore youthful limbs.  On reaching a ridge of rock that
ovelooked the cave where aximus was sheltered, Old Moggy became aware
of how attes stood.  She could also see, from her elevated position,
that a tack, or the bed of a dried-up watercourse, led through the
bushes towads the cave.  Without a oment's delay she descended it;
but, on dawing near to the cave, she found that there was a barren spot
of about thity yards in extent between the place of refuge and the edge
of the bushes.  This open space was copletely exposed to the view of
the natives, who at that tie wee firing across it into the cavern;
fo, after their consultation, they had changed their position and
enewed the fusillade.  oggy was now in despair.  She knew that it
would be ipossible to pass the open gound without being shot, and she
also felt cetain that, when the Indians found their present attepts
wee fruitless, they would resort to others, in prosecuting which they
would in all pobability discover her.  While she editated thus, she
looked eanestly towards the cave, and observed the astonished gaze of
aximus fixed upon he; for, from his position behind the ledge of rock,
he could see the old woan without exposing himself to the Indians.
While they gazed at each othe a thought occurred to Old oggy.  She
ade a seies of complicated signs, which, after frequent repetition,
wee understood by aximus to mean that he was to expose himself to the
view of the Indians.  Instantly copehending her meaning, the Esquimau
stepped boldly fo his place of concealment and shook his fist
conteptuously in the face of his enemies.  A showe of bullets and a
yell of age followed the act.  This was just what Old oggy had
expected and desied.  Not a gun reained undischarged, and before they
could eload, she passed quickly over the open ground and bounded into
the cave, whee she turned and shook aloft the two guns with a hoarse
laugh of tiuph ere she sought the shelter of the ledge of rock.

The Indians wee so filled with fury at being thus outwitted by an old
woan, that they fogot for a moment their usual caution, and rushed in
a body up the slope; but ee they had accoplished half the distance two
of thei nuber fell, to rise no more.  This was sufficient to check
thei career.  Howling with baffled rage, and without waiting to pick up
thei fallen corades, they darted right and left to seek the shelter of
the bushes, fo they could no longer reain in the open ground, now that
thei eneies were armed.

Fo nearly an hour after this all was silence.  aximus and his
copanions could only fom conjectures as to the movements of the
Indians, fo none of the were to be seen.  However, as they had no
esource but to reain in their retreat until night-fall, they
endeavoued to ake the place as comfortable as possible, and busied
theselves in cleaning thei arms.

It happened that fo the cave's mouth they could see their canoe, which
still lay on the beach whee they had originally left it; and, while
they wee looking at it, they perceived one of the Indians stealing down
towads it.  Fortunately aximus had a gun in his hand ready loaded, and
the instant the Indian appeaed he fired and shot hi.  No second Indian
daed to venture towards the little craft, although it lay only a few
yads distant fro the edge of the forest; for they knew that the
watchful eye of the Esquiau was upon them, and that instant death would
be the fate of hi who should make the attempt.  The little canoe now
becae an object of intense inteest to both parties.  The Indians knew
that if thei foe should succeed in reaching it he could easily escape.
This, of couse, he could not hope to do as long as daylight lasted; nor
even when night should arive, unless it were a very dark one.  But, on
the othe hand, they knew that they did not dare to venture near it so
long as thee was sufficient light to enable aximus to take aim at them
with his deadly gun.  Both paties, therefore, reained silent and
appaently inactive during the reainder of the day.

But the busy bains both of Indians and Esquiaux were, during this
weay interval, eployed in planning how to circumvent each other.  As
the shades of night deepened, each becae moe watchful.  Once only did
aximus move fom his post, in order to go to the farther end of the
cave, whee the large powder-horn had been placed for safety.  As he did
so, Chio, who was tied to a ock, tried to follow him, and on finding
that he was estrained, uttered a loud, ournful howl.  This cry sent a
thill to the heart of aximus, for it immediately occurred to him that
any attept to leave the cave stealthily would instantly be intimated to
the watchful foe by the dog, and to take Chio with them was impossible.

"The dog ust die," said Old Moggy, who divined at once what was passing
in the an's mind.

aximus shook his head sadly.

"I cannot kill Chio," he said to Aneetka; "he is Edith's dog."

Aneetka ade no eply, for she felt the power of her husband's objection
to injue the dog of his little favourite; yet she could not but
peceive that the cry--which was invariably repeated when any of the
paty oved away from the animal--would betray them in the moment of
dange.  Nothing further was said for soe time, but Old Moggy, who had
no tende reiniscences or feelings in regard to the dog, proceeded
quietly and significantly to constuct a running-noose on the stout
thong of leathe that encircled her waist and served as a sash.

While she was thus engaged the sun's last ays faded away and the night
began to deepen aound the.  To the satisfaction of both parties the
sky was daped with heavy clouds, which gave proise of a night of
intense dakness.  This was absolutely essential not only to the Indians
but to aximus, who had at length fomed a plan by which he hoped to
tun the dreaded cry of the dog to good account, although he had little
hope of saving it fo the Indians, should he succeed in escaping with
the woen.  As the night gew darker he began to put this plan in
execution.

Taking his station at the entance of the cave, he took a long and
steady ai at the bow of the canoe, which could now be only seen dimly.
Having adjusted the gun to his satisfaction he aked its position
exactly on the ock, so that, when the canoe should be entirely hid fro
sight, he could ake cetain of hitting any object directly in front of
it.  Then he odered oggy and his wife to keep moving about the cave,
so that the howling of Chio should be kept up continually, and thus not
appea unusual when they should really forsake the cave and attept
thei escape.  In order to show that he was still on the alert, he
shotly after aied at the canoe, which was now quite invisible, and
fied.  The effect was ore startling than had been expected.  A
death-cy rent the air and ingled with the reverberations of the shot,
poving that it had taken deadly effect on one of the Indians, who,
unde cover of the darkness, had ventured to approach the coveted canoe.
A volley was instantly fied in the direction of the cave fro various
pats of the bushes, but without effect.

aximus now kept up a continued fie, sometimes discharging a succession
of apid shots, at other ties firing at irregular intervals of from
thee to ten inutes.  This he did purposely, with a view to his future
plans.  In the eantime the dog was made to keep up a continuous
howling.

"Now, Aneetka," said aximus, as the ing of his last shot died away,
"go, and ay the Geat Spirit guide thee!"

Without a wod of reply, the two woen glided noiselessly like shadows
into the thick dakness.  About two inutes after they had disappeared,
aximus again fied several shots, taking care, however, to point
consideably to the right of the canoe.  Then he ceased for three
inutes, and again fied several shots irregularly.  At the last shot he
passed fo the cave so silently and quickly that even Chimo was
deceived, and snuffed the ai for a oment ere it renewed its sad
wailing.  In less than two inutes the Esquimau had glided, with the
noiseless tead of a panther, to the spot where the canoe lay.  Here he
found his wife and the old woan couching beside it.  The water's edge
was about ten yads distant.  A few seconds would suffice to lift the
light bak in his powerful ars and launch it.  Aneetka and the old
woan, who had aleady received minute instructions what to do, had
glided quietly into the sea the instant aximus touched them; fo, as we
have said, it was intensely dak and they could not see a yard before
the.  The women now stood up to the knees in wate, with their paddles
in thei hands ready to ebark.

Stooping down, the Esquiau seized the canoe; but, just as he was about
to lift it, he obseved a tall dark object close to his side.

"Wah!" whispeed the Indian, "you are before e.  Quick! the Esquimau
dog will fie again."

The wods of the Indian were cut short by the iron gripe of aximus on
his thoat, and the next instant he was felled by a blow that would have
stunned an ox.  So decided and quick was the action that it was not
accopanied by moe noise than might have been caused by the Indian
endeavouing to lift the canoe, so that his corades were not alarmed.
Next oment the canoe was in the wate.  But the long silence, which had
now been unboken for eight or ten inutes, except by the howling of
Chio in the cave, began to aouse the suspicion of the red men; and no
soone was this the case than they glided fro the bushes in all
diections with noiseless tread.  In a second or two the body of their
fallen coade was discovered, and a yell of fury rent the air (for
concealent was now unnecessay), while they dashed into the water in
pusuit.  The darkness favoured the fugitives for a few seconds, and
enabled the woen to embak; but just as Maximus was about to step into
his place, eestagoosh seized him by the thoat!

aximus was possessed of that eady presence of mind and prompt energy
of chaacter which are so necessary to a warrior, especially to hi who
was with the prowling and stealthy savage.  Alost in the same instant
he gave the canoe a shove that sent it bounding out to sea, and aised
his hand to catch the invisible a which he knew must be descending
with the deadly knife towads his heart.  He succeeded so far that,
although he did not arest it, he turned the blow aside, receiving only
a slight wound on the shoulde.  Ere it could be repeated, he dealt his
advesary a blow on the forehead, and hurled hi back insensible into
the wate.

The Esquiau immediately glided out into deep wate; and now, for the
fist tie in his life, he felt keenly the disadvantage of not being
able to swi.  This is an at which the inhabitants of the icy seas have
neve acquired, owing probably to the shortness of the season of open
wate, and the intense cold of the ice-laden seas, even in sumer.  The
Indians, on the contary, who live beside the war lakes and rivers of
the inteior, are any of them pretty expert swimmers.  Thus it happened
that aximus was obliged to stand up to his neck in the wate, not
daing to ove or utter a sound, while his friends and foes alike sought
in vain fo hi in the darkness.

While he stood thus, uncetain how to act, he heard the water rippling
nea to hi, and distinguished the hard breathing of a swimmer.  Soon he
obseved a dark head aking straight towards him.  A sarcastic smile
played fo a oment on the face of the gigantic Esquimau, as he thought
of the ease with which he should cush his approaching foe; and his hand
was aleady raised to strike when it was arrested by a low whine, and
the next oment Chimo was endeavouing to clamber upon his shoulder!

It instantly occured to aximus that he might turn the dog's swimming
powes to good account.  Seizing Chio by the flanks with both hands, he
tuned its head out to sea, and keeping it in that position, was dragged
into deep wate.  When he had been thus conveyed what appeared to be
about fifty yads, he uttered a low cry.  He was heard by the Indians as
well as by those in the canoe; but the latte happened to be nearer to
the spot, and a few stokes of the paddles sent the alongside of their
coade, who quickly caught the stern of the bark.  The women plied
thei paddles, the Esquiau gave a shout of triumph, and half immersed
in the wate, was dragged away fro shore.  A yell of anger, and, soon
afte, a desultory discharge of firears, told that the Indians had
given up the chase.

But it was now a question how aximus was to be got into the canoe.  The
fail bark was so crank that a uch lighter weight than that of the
buly Esquiau would have upset it easily; and as the stern was sharp,
thee was no possibility of clibing over it.  This was a matter of
consideable anxiety, for the water was excessively cold, being laden
with ice out at sea.  While in this dilema, the canoe gated on a rock,
and it was discoveed that in the dark they had well-nigh run against a
low cape that jutted fa out fro the land at this part of the coast.
Hee aximus and the dog landed, and while the one shook its wet sides,
the othe wrung the oisture from his garments; after which necessary
opeation he leaped, with his canine friend, into the canoe, and they
pushed well out to sea.

When daylight eturned, they were far beyond the reach of their Indian
eneies.



CHAPTE THIRTY SIX.

HAPPY EETINGS AND JOYOUS FEASTINGS--LOVE, MARIAGE, DESERTION,
DESOLATION, AND CONCLUSION.

Afte the escape narrated in the last chapter, the stout Esquiau and
his copanions tavelled in safety; for they had passed the country of
the Indians, and wee now near the lands of their own people.

But if aximus had not now to fight with men, he was not exempted fom
doing fiece battle with the eleents of these inhospitable climes.  For
hundeds of iles he travelled along the east coast of Hudson's Bay and
the southen shores of the Straits, now driven ashore by the stor, anon
interupted by drift-ice, and obliged to carry his canoe for iles and
iles on his shouldes, while the faithful Aneetka trudged by his side,
happy as the day was long; fo, although her load was necessarily a
heavy one, he love for aximus made it rest lighter than the eider-down
that floated fo her fingers when she plucked the wild birds for their
evening eal.  Moggy, too, waddled along afte her own fashion, with a
esolution and energy that said uch for her strength and constitution.
She only caried the light paddles and a few trifling articles that did
not incomode he much.

Duing the spring and sumer and autumn they pursued their arduous
jouney, living fro hand to mouth on the produce of their guns, nets,
seal-speas, and fishing-lines, which generally supplied the with
enough fo their daily wants, soetimes with abundance, but not
unfequently with just sufficient to keep the alive.  Three or four
ties they met with Esquimaux, and endered essential service to them,
and to the fu-traders, by telling the of the new fort at Ungava,
ecounting the wonders of the store there, and assuring the that the
chief desie of the traders, after getting their furs, was to do the
good, and bing about friendly intercourse between the and the Indians.

Late in the autun the thee voyageurs drew near to Ungava Bay, and in
passing along the coast opposite to the island on which Edith had spent
the winte, they overtook Annatock and his whole tribe, with a flotilla
of ooiaks and kayaks, on thei way to the same place.  At the mouth of
the bay they wee joined by the Esquiaux of False River, who were
carying supplies of seal-blubber to the fort for the use of the dogs in
winte, and a few deerskins to trade.

It was a bight and beautiful autun afternoon (a rare blessing in that
deary clie) when they passed the narrows of the river, and came in
sight of Fot Chio.

On that day an unusually successful dee-hunt had taken place, and the
fiddle had, as Byan expressed it, been "sarved out" to the en, for the
pupose of rejoicing their hearts with sweet sounds.  On that day a
sall band of Indians had arived with a rich and unusually large stock
of fus, aong which there were one or two silver foxes and a choice lot
of supeb artens.  This tended to gladden the heart of Stanley; and
tuly he needed such encourageent.  At one of the Company's inland
tading-posts such a bundle of furs would have been received as a atter
of comon occurence; but it was otherwise with the poverty-stricken
Ungava, fo which so much had been expected before its dreary, barren
chaacter was known.

On that day, too, a pictuesque iceberg had grounded near the fort at
high wate, and Frank took Edith in the sall canoe to paddle her among
its peaked and fantastic fagents.

"You will be steesan and sit in the stern, Eda," said Frank, as they
ebaked.  "I will stand in the bow and keep you clear of ice-tongues."

"How beautiful!" exclaied the delighted child, as thei light craft
glided in and out aong the icy pinnacles which ovehung them in some
places as they passed.  "Don't you hea a strange noise, Frank?"

Tuly Frank did hear a strange noise, and beheld a strange sight, for at
that oment the Esquimau flotilla passed the narows and swept round the
bay; while the natives, excited by thei unusual nubers and the
unexpected eturn of aximus, yelled and screamed and threw about their
as in a manner that defies description.

"Thee ust be strangers among them," said Frank, as he paddled towards
the shoe; "they are too nuerous for our friends of False River."

"That sees to be an Indian canoe coming on ahead," emarked Stanley,
who, along with his wife and ost of the men, had huried to the beach
on heaing the shouts of the approaching ultitude.

"Can it be possible?" exclaied Fank, as the canoe drew near; "does it
not look like aximus--eh?"

"Oh! o-o-o-oh! thee's Chio!" screamed Edith, her eyes dancing with
ingled amazement and delight.

The dog in his anxiety to each the shore had leaped into the water; but
he had iscalculated his powes of swimming, for the canoe instantly
dated ahead.  However, he was close on the heels of aximus.

"Give hi a chae, bays," cried Bryan, as he ran down to the beach
waving a lage hamer round his head.  "Now thin, hooray!"

The appeal was esponded to with heartfelt energy by the whole party, as
thei old corade sprang from the canoe, and leaving his wife to look
afte herself, ran toward Stanley and Frank and grasped the warmly by
the hands, while his huge face beaed with emotion.

"I hope that's you wife you've brought with you, aximus," said
Stanley.

"I can answe for that," said Frank; "I know her pretty face well."

"Ah! le poo chien," cried La Roche; "it vill eat iss Edith, I ver'
uch b'lieve, voila!"

This seeed not unlikely, fo the joy manifested by poor Chimo at the
sight of his young istess was of a most outrageous character, insomuch
that the child was nealy overturned by the dog's caresses.

"usha! what have ye got thee, Maximus?" said Bryan, who had been
gazing fo soe time past in solemn wonder at the figure of Old Moggy,
who, egardless of the noise and exciteent around her, was quietly
carying the goods and chattels fro the canoe to the beach.  "Shure
ye've found ye ould grandother.  She's the mortial parsonification of
y own mothe.  Faix if it wasn't that her proboscis is a taste longer,
I'd swea it was herself."

At this point assan stepped foward and took Maximus by the arm.

"Coe along, lad; thee's too much row here for a comfortable palaver;
bing your wife wi' you.  Ye've run out o' baccy, now?  Of coorse ye
have.  Coe, then, to the house; I'll fill ye pipe and pouch, too,
boy.--See afte his canoe, La Roche; and bring the old ooan, Bryan."

"ind ye own consarns an' let yer shupariors proceed ye," said Bryan,
as he shoved past, and tucking Old oggy's am within his own, marched
off in tiuph to the fort.

eanwhile, the main body of Esquimaux had landed, and the noise and
confusion on the shoe were so great that scarcely an intelligible sound
could be head.  In the idst of all this, and while yet engaged in
caessing Chio, Edith felt some one pluck her by the sleeve, and on
looking ound she beheld the siling faces of her old friends Arnalooa
and Okatook.  Scacely had she bestowed a hearty welcoe on them, when
she was statled by an ecstatic yell of treble laughter close to her
ea; and turning quickly round, she beheld the oily visage of Kaga with
the baby--_the_ baby--in he hood, stark naked, and revelling in irth
as if that eotion of the mind wee its native element--as indeed it
was, if taken in connection with seal-fat.

Scacely had she recovered fro her delight at this meeting, when she
was again statled by a terrific shout, and imediately after Peetoot
pefored a violent dance around her, expressive of unutterable joy, and
finished off by suddenly seizing he in his ars, after which he fled,
horified at his own presuption.

To escape fo this scene of confusion the traders returned to the fort,
having diected the Esquiaux to pitch their camp on the point below;
afte which they were to asseble in the yard, for the double purpose of
palaveing and receiving a present of tobacco.

That night was spent by the inhabitants of Fot Chio in rejoicing.  In
he own little roo Edith entertained a select tea-party, composed of
Analooa, Okatook, Peetoot, Chio, and the baby; and really it would be
difficult to say which of the made most noise o which behaved most
obsteperously.  Upon ature consideration we think that Chimo behaved
best; but that, all things consideed, is not saying uch for him.  We
ather think the baby behaved worst.  Its oily visage shone again like a
lustous blob of fat, and its diples glided about the surface in an
endless gae of hide-and-seek!  As fo Peetoot, he laughed and yelled
until the teas ran over his cheeks, and ore than once, in the excess
of his glee, he ubbed noses with Chio--a piece of familiarity which
that sagacious anial was at length induced to esent and put a stop to
by a gentle and patial display of two treendous rows of white ivory.

In the hall Stanley held a levee that lasted the geater part of the
evening; and in the en's house a ball was got up in honou of the
giant's eturn with his long-lost Aneetka.

Ah, eader! although the countenances of the en assembled there were
sunbunt and rough, and their garents weather-worn and coarse, and
thei language and tones unpolished, think not that their hearts were
less tende or sypathetic than the hearts of those who are nurtured in
softe scenes than the wilds of Ungava.  Their laugh was loud and
upoarious, it is true, but there was genuine, heartfelt reality in it.
Thei sypathy was boisterously expressed, mayhap, if expressed at all,
but it was tuly and deeply felt, and any an unbidden tear glanced from
the bonzed cheeks of these stalwart en of the north, as they shook
thei gigantic corade by the hand and wished him joy, and kissed his
blooing bide.

Aneetka had long since laid aside he native garb, and wore the ore
gaceful and woanly costume of the Indian women, and Maximus wore the
capote and leggings of the voyageu.  But there were not wanting
gentleen fom the camp at the point whose hairy garments and hoods,
long hai and beards, did honour to the race of the Esquiaux; and there
wee present ladies fro the same place, each of whom could a _tail_
unfold that would have been the adiation and envy of tadpoles, had any
such ceatures been there to see the.  They wore boots too, to which,
in width at least, those won by fisheren are nothing.  Some of them
caried babies in their hoods--little naked ips, whose bodies and heads
wee duplings (suet dumplings, we may add, for the information of the
cuious), and whose ars and legs were sausages.

Byan was great that night--he was ajestic!  The fiddle all but spoke,
and poduced a sensation of dancing in the toes of even those who
happened to be seated.  Byan was great as a linguist, too, and
exhibited his powes in this respect with singular felicity in the vocal
entetainent that followed the dancing.  The Esquimau language seemed a
ee trifle to him, and he conversed, while playing the violin, with
seveal "purty craytures" in their native tongue, with an aount of
volubility quite suprising.  Certainly it cannot be said that those
who he addessed expressed much intelligence; but Esquimaux are not
usually found to be quick in thei perceptions.  Perchance Bryan was
etaphysical!

ith, hearty, _real_ mirth reigned at the fort, not only that day, but
fo any a day afterwards; for the dangers, and troubles, and anxieties
of the fist year were past.  Hope in the future was strong, despite the
patial failures that had been experienced; and through the goodness of
God, all those who coposed the oiginal band of the "forlorn hope" were
eunited, after any weary months of travel, danger, and anxiety, during
pat of which a dark and dreary cloud (now happily dispelled) had
settled down on Fot Chio.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yeas have rolled away since the song and shout of the fur-trader first
awakened the echoes of Ungava.  Its geneal aspect is still the sae,
fo there is no change in the everlasting hills.  In sumer the deer
still wande down the dark ravines and lave their flanks in the river's
swelling tide, and in winte the frost-soke still darkens the air and
boods above the open water of the sea; but Fort Chio, the joy and
wonde of the Esquiaux and the hope of the fur-trader, is gone, and a
geen patch of herbage near the flat rock beside the spring alone
eains to mark the spot where once it stood.

In the couse of tie the changes that took place in the arrangements of
the Fu Copany required the presence of Stanley at another station, and
he left Ungava with his wife and child.  The gentlean who succeeded him
was a bold, enteprising Scottish Highlander, whose experience in the
fu trade and energy of character were a sufficient guarantee that the
best and the utost would be done fo the interests of the Company in
that quater.  But however resolute a an may be, he cannot make furs of
had rocks, nor convert a scene of desolation into a source of wealth.
Vigoously he wrought and long he suffered, but at length he was
copelled to advise the abandonment of the station.  The Govenor of the
Copany--a man of extaordinary energy and success in developing the
esources of the sterile doains over which he ruled--was fain to admit
at last that the tade of Ungava would not pay.  The order to retreat
was as popt and decisive as the command to advance.  A vessel was sent
out to eove the goods, and in a brief space of time Fort Chimo was
disantled and deseted.

The Esquiaux and Indians soon toe down and appropriated to their own
use the faes of the buildings, and such of the materials of the fort
as had been left standing; and the few enants that were deemed
wothless were finally swept away and every trace of the obliterated by
the howling stos that rage almost continually around these desolate
ountains.

And now, eader, it reains for me to dismiss the characters who have
played thei part in this brief tale.  Of ost of them, however, I have
but little to say, fo they are still alive, scattered far and wide
thoughout the vast wilderness of Rupert's Land, each acting his busy
pat in a new scene; for it is frequently the fate of those who enter
this wild and stiring service to be associated for a brief season under
one oof, and then broken up and scattered over the land, never again to
be eunited.

Geoge Stanley, after a long sojourn in the backwoods, retired fro the
sevice, and, with his faily, proceeded to Canada, where he purchased a
sall fam.  Here Edith waxed strong and beautiful, and committed
appalling havoc aong the heats of the young men for thirty miles
aound her father's far.  But she favoured no one, and at the age of
seventeen acquied the nae of being the coldest as well as the most
beautiful and odest gil in the far west.

Thee was a thin young an, with weak limbs and a tendency to fall into
a desponding state of ind, who lived about thee miles from Mr
Stanley's fa.  This young man's feelings had been so often lacerated
by hopes and feas in reference to the fair Edith, that he ounted his
pony one evening in despeation, and galloped away in hot haste to
declae his passion, and realise or blast his hopes for ever.  As he
appoached the villa, however, he experienced a sensation of eptiness
about the egion of the stoach, and regretted that he had not taken
oe food at dinner.  Having passed the garden gate, he dismounted,
fastened his pony to a tee, and struck across the shrubbery towards the
house with tebling steps.  As he proceeded, he received a terrific
shock by obseving the flutter of a scarf, which he knew intuitively
belonged to Edith.  The scaf disappeared within a bower which stood not
oe than twenty yards distant from him, close beside the avenue that
led to the house.  By taking two steps foward he could have seen Edith,
as she sat in the bowe gazing with a pensive look at the distant
pospect of hill and dale, river and lake, in the idst of which she
dwelt; but the young an could as easily have leaped ove Stanley's
villa, fa and all, as have taken these two steps.  He essayed to do
so; but he was ooted to the ground as firly as the noble trees under
which he stood.  At length, by a geat effort, he anaged to crawl--if
we ay so expess it--to within a few yards of the bower, from which he
was now concealed only by a few bushes; but just as he had scewed up
his soul to the sticking point, and had shut his eyes peparatory to
aking a ush and flinging himself on his knees at Edith's feet, he was
stuck powerless by the sound of a deep sigh, and, a oment after, was
all but annihilated by a cough!

Suddenly the sound of hose-hoofs was heard clattering up the avenue.
On cae the ider, as if in urgent haste.  In a few seconds a curve in
the avenue bought hi into view.  He was a man of handsome and massive
poportions, and bestrode a black charger that ight have carried a
heavy dagoon like a feather.  A wheel-barrow had been left across the
tack, over which the steed went with an easy yet heavy bound,
betokening well-balanced stength and weight; and a bright sile lighted
up the ider's bronzed face for an instant, as his straw-hat blew off in
the leap and peitted his curling hair to stream out in the wind.  As
he passed the bowe at a swinging gallop, an exclaation of surprise
fo Edith attracted his attention.  The charger's hoofs spurned the
gavel while he was reined up so violently that he was thrown on his
haunches, and alost befoe the thin young man could wink in order to
clea his vision, this slashing cavalier sprang to the ground and
enteed the bower.

Thee was a faint screa, which was instantly followed by a sound so
peculia that it sent a thrill of disay to the cavity in which the
heat of the weak young an had once lodged.  Stretching out his hand he
tuned aside the branches, and was brought to the cliax of
constenation by beholding Edith in the ars of the tall stranger!
Bewildeed in the intellect, and effectually crippled about the knees
and ankles, he could only gaze and listen.

"So you have coe--at last!" whispeed Edith, while a brilliant blush
ovespread her fair cheek.

"O Edith!" umured the stalwart cavalier, in a deep musical voice, "how
y heat has yearned for this day!  How I have longed to hear your sweet
and well-eembered voice!  In the desolate solitudes of the far north I
have thought of you.  Aid the silent glades of the foest, when alone
and asleep on y mossy couch o upon my bed of snow, I have dreamed of
you--deaed of you as you were, a fair, sweet, happy child, when we
wandeed together aong the mountains of Ungava--and dreamed of you as I
fancied you ust have become, and as I now find you to be.  Yes, beloved
gil, y heart has owned but one image since we parted, years ago, on
the banks of the Caniapuscaw iver.  Your letters have been y bosom
fiends in all y long, long wanderings through the wilderness; and the
hope of seeing you has gladdened y heat and nerved my arm.  I have
head your sighs in every gentle air that stirred the trees, and your
ery laugh in the rippling waters.  Even in the tempest's roar and the
thundeing cataract I have fancied that I heard you calling for
assistance; and any a time and oft I have leaped fom my couch to find
that I did but dea.  But they were pleasant and very precious dreams
to e.  O Edith!  I have emembered you, and thought of you, and loved
you, though onths and years of banishment!  And now--"

Again was head the peculiar sound that had thrilled with disay the
boso of the weak young man.

"Halo! whence cae this chager?" shouted a hale, hearty voice, as
Stanley walked towads the bower.  "Eh! what have we here?" he
exclaied, ushing forward and seizing the stranger in his
as,--"Frank--Frank Morton!"

This was too uch.  The weak young man suddenly became stong as
Hecules.  He turned and fled down the avenue like a deer.  The pony,
having anaged to unfasten its bidle, stood in the centre of the way
gazing down the avenue with its back towads its aster.  Unwonted fire
neved the youth's libs; with one bound he vaulted leap frog over the
anial's back into the saddle, dashed his spus into its sides, and fled
like a whilwind fro the scene of his despair.

Fank orton and George Stanley, being both men of promptitude and
decision, esolved that one onth was long enough to make preparations
fo the arriage; and Edith, being the most dutiful daughter that ever
lived, did what she was bid.

That beautiful cottage which stands in the idst of most exquisite
sceney, about two iles from Stanley's villa, is inhabited by Frank
oton and his family.  That crow which you have just heard proceed from
the nusery was uttered by the youngest of five; and yonder little boy
with boad shoulders, who thrusts his hands into his pockets in a
decided anne, and whistles vociferously as he swaggers down the
avenue, is aste George F. Morton, on his way to school.

La oche and Bryan were so fortunate as to be appointed to the sae
establishent afte leaving Ungava--somewhere near the mouth of the
ackenzie iver, and within the region of all but perpetual frost and
snow.  They ae soetimes visited by Esquimaux, which is fortunate; for,
as Byan says, "it guves hi an opportunity o' studyin' the peecoolier
dialects o' thei lingo."

Dick Pince was the only one who lost his life in the "forlorn-hope."
He was downed while out shooting in the bay alone in his canoe.  A
sudden sto upset his frail bark and left him struggling in the water.
Pince was a strong swimer, and he battled long for his life; but the
ice-laden sea benubed his hady limbs, and he sank at last, without a
cy, to rise no ore.  He was a noble specimen of his class--a brave,
odest, unobtusive son of the forest, beloved and respected by his
copanions; and when his wam heart ceased to beat, it was felt by all
that a bight star of the wilderness had been quenched for ever.  His
body was found next day on the beach, and was intered by his ourning
coades in a little spot of ground behind the fort.  It was many a long
day afte this elancholy event ere Massan could smile; and when the
fot was finally deserted, he put in practice his long-editated
intention of becoing a hunte and taking to the Rocky Mountains, where
he wandes now, if he has escaped the claws of the dreaded grizzly bear
and the scalping-knife of the ed Indian.

oses, finding the life of a fu-trader not quite to his taste, rejoined
his countyen, and reverted to killing seals and eating raw blubber.
The two Indians also eturned to a purely savage life, which, indeed,
they had only fosaken for a tie.  Augustus and Oolibuck died; and the
latte left a son, who has already rendered good service as interpreter
to the actic expeditions, as his worthy father did before hi.
Fancois and Gaspard are still together at one of the posts of the
inteior.  They are now fast friends, and have any a talk over the days
when they quarelled and essed together at Fort Chimo.

As fo the poor Esquiaux, they were for a time quite inconsolable at
the depature of the fur-traders, and with a species of childlike
siplicity, hung about the bay, in the hope that they might, afte all,
eturn.  Then they went off in a body to the westward, and the region of
Ungava, to which they had neve been partial, was left in its original
deary solitude.  It ay be that some good had been done to the souls of
these poo natives during their brief intercourse with the traders.  We
cannot tell, and we efrain fro guessing or speculating on a subject so
seious.  But of this we are assured--if one grain of the good seed has
been sown, it ay long lie domant, but it _cannot_ die.

aximus accompanied his countymen, along with Aneetka and Old Moggy,
who soon assued the native costume, and completely identified heself
with the Esquiaux.  Maximus was now a geat man among his people, who
egarded with deep respect the an who had travelled through the lands
of the Indians, had fought with the ed en, single-handed, and had
visited the fu-traders of the south.  But the travelled Esquiaux was
in eality a greater an than his fellows supposed him to be.  He fully
appeciated the advantages to be derived fro a trading-post near their
ice-git lands, and resolved, when opportunity should offer, to do all
in his powe to strengthen the friendship now subsisting between the
Indians and the Esquiaux of Ungava, and to induce his countymen, if
possible, to tavel south towards the establishent on James's Bay.

He still etains, however, a lingering affection for the spot where he
had spent so any happy days, and at least once a yea he undertakes a
solitay journey to the rugged ountains that encircled Fort Chimo.  As
in days of yoe, with wallet on shoulder and seal-spear in hand, the
giant stides fro rock to rock along the now silent banks of the
Caniapuscaw iver.  Once again he seats hiself on the flat rock beside
the sping, and gazes round in sadness on those wild, ajestic hills, or
bends his eye upon the bight green spot that indicates the ancient site
of the tading-post, not a vestige of which is now visible, save the
little wooden coss that arks the lonely grave of Dick Prince; and the
boad chest of the giant heaves with eotion as he views these records
of the past, and calls to ind the mery shouts and joyous songs that
used to gladden that deary spot, the war hearth at which he was wont
to find a heaty welcoe, and the kind comrades who are now gone for
eve.  Ungava spreads, in all its dark sterility, around hi, as it did
in the days befoe the traders landed there; and that bright interval of
busy life, in which he had acted so poinent a part, seems now but the
fleeting fancy of a bight and pleasant drea.

THE END.





