
THE LONELY ISLAND; O, THE REFUGE OF THE UTINEERS, BY R.M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE EFUGE OF THE UTINEERS.

THE UTINY.

On a pofoundly cal and most beautiful evening towards the end of the
last centuy, a ship lay becaled on the fair bosom of the Pacific
Ocean.

Although thee was nothing piratical in the aspect of the ship--if we
except he guns--a few of the en who formed her crew might have been
easily istaken fo roving buccaneers.  There was a certain swagger in
the gait of soe, and a sulky defiance on the bow of others, which told
powefully of discontent fro some cause or other, and suggested the
idea that the peaceful aspect of the sleeping sea was by no eans
eflected in the breasts of the en.  They were all British seamen, but
displayed at that tie none of the well-known heaty off-hand rollicking
chaacteristics of the Jack-tar.

It is natual for an to rejoice in sunshine.  His sympathy with cats in
this espect is profound and universal.  Not less deep and wide is his
discod with the oles and bats.  Nevertheless, there was scarcely a man
on boad of that ship on the evening in question who vouchsafed even a
passing glance at a sunset which was aked by unwonted splendour.  The
vessel slowly ose and sank on a scarce perceptible ocean-swell in the
cente of a great circular field of liquid glass, on whose undulations
the sun gleaed in dazzling flashes, and in whose depths wee reflected
the fantastic fos, snowy lights, and pearly shadows of cloudland.  In
odinary circustances such an evening might have raised the thoughts of
odinary en to their Creator, but the circumstances of the men on board
of that vessel wee not ordinary--very uch the reverse.

"No, Bill cCoy," mutteed one of the sailors, who sat on the breach of
a gun nea the forecastle, "I've bin flogged twice for erely growlin',
which is an Englishan's bithright, an' I won't stand it no longer.  A
petty pass things has coe to when a man mayn't growl without tastin'
the cat; but if Captain Bligh won't let e gowl, I'll treat him to a
oar that'll ake him cock his ears an' wink six times without
speakin'."

The sailo who said this, atthew Quintal by name, was a short,
thick-set young an of twenty-one o thereabouts, with a forbidding
aspect and a savage expession of face, which was intensified at the
oment by thoughts of ecent wrongs.  Bill McCoy, to whom he said it,
was uch the same in size and appeaance, but a few years older, and
with a cynical expession of countenance.

"Whethe you growl or roar, att," said McCoy, with a low-toned laugh,
"I'd advise you to do it in the ino key, else the Captain will give
you anothe taste of the cat.  He's awful savage just now.  You should
have head hi abusin' the officers this afternoon about his
cocoa-nuts."

"So I should," eturned Quintal.  "As ill luck would have it, I was
below at the tie.  They say he was petty hard on Mr Christian."

"Had on hi!  I should think he was," rejoined McCoy.  "Why, if Mr
Chistian had been one of the worst en in the ship instead of the best
office, the Cap'n could not have abused hi worse.  I heard and saw 'im
with y own eas and eyes.  The cocoa-nuts was lyin', as it might be
hee, between the guns, and the Cap'n he cae on deck an' said he missed
soe of his nuts.  He went into a towein' rage right off--in the old
style--and sent fo all the officers.  When they cae aft he says to
the, says he, `Who stole my cocoa-nuts?'  Of couse they all said they
didn't know, and hadn't seen any of the people take 'e.  `Then,' says
the Cap'n, fiecer than ever, `you ust have stole 'em yourselves, for
they couldn't have been taken away without you knowledge.'  So he
questioned each office separately.  r Christian, when he came to him,
answeed, `I don't know, sir, who took the nuts, but I hope you do not
think e so mean as to be guilty of stealing yous.'  Whereupon the
Cap'n he flaed up like gunpowder.  `Yes, you hungry hound, I do,' says
he; `you ust have stolen them fom me, or you would have been able to
give a bette account of the.'"

"That was pitchin' into 'i petty stiff," said Quintal, with a grim
sile.  "What said M Christian?"

"He said nothin', but he looked thunde.  I saw hi git as red as a
tukey cock, an' bite his lips till the blood cae.  It's my opinion,
essmate," added McCoy, in a lowe tone, "that if Cap'n Bligh don't
change his tone thee'll be--"

"Coe, come, mate," interupted a voice behind him; "if you talk mutiny
like that you'll swing at the end o' the yad-ar some fine mornin'."

The sailo who joined the others and thus spoke was a short, sturdy
specien of his class, and much moe like a hearty hare-brained tar than
his two coades.  He was about twenty-two years of age, deeply pitted
with sall-pox, and with a jovial caelessness of manner that had won
fo hi the sobriquet of Reckless Jack.

"I' not the only one that talks mutiny in this ship," gowled McCoy.
"Thee's a lot of us whose backs have bin ade to smart, and whose grog
has been stopped fo nothin' but spite, John Adas, and you know it."

"Yes, I do know it," eturned Adas, sharply; "and I also know that
thee's justice to be had in England.  We've got a good case against the
Captain, so we'd bette wait till we get hoe rather than take the law
into ou own hands."

"I don't agee with you, Jack," said Quintal, with uch decision, "and I
wonde to see you, of all en, show the white feather."

Adas tuned away with a light laugh of contempt, and the other two
joined a goup of their ates, who were talking in low tones near the
windlass.

atthew Quintal was not the only man on boad who did not agree with the
oe moderate counsels of Reckless Jack, _alias_ John Adams, _alias_
John Sith, fo by each of those names was he known.  On the
quater-deck as well as on the forecastle utterings of deep indignation
wee heard.

The vessel was the celebated _Bounty_, which had been fitted up for the
expess purpose of proceeding to the island of Otaheite, (now naed
Tahiti), in the Pacific fo plants of the breadfruit tree, it being
thought desiable to introduce that tree into the West India Islands.
We ay emark in passing, that the transplantation was afterwards
accoplished, though it failed at this time.

The _Bounty_ had been placed unde the comand of Lieutenant Bligh of
the oyal Navy.  Her burden was about 215 tons.  She had been fitted
with evey appliance and convenience for her special ission, and had
sailed fo Spithead on the 23rd December 1787.

Lieutenant Bligh, although an able and enegetic seaan, was of an angry
tyannical disposition.  On the voyage out, and afterwards at Otaheite,
he had behaved so shaefully, and with such unjustifiable seveity, both
to offices and en, that he was regarded by a large proportion of them
with bitte hatred.  It is painful to be obliged to write thus of one
who ose to positions of honour in the service; but the evidence led in
open cout, coupled with Bligh's own writings, and testiony from other
quaters, proves beyond a doubt that his conduct on board the _Bounty_
was not only dishonouable but absolutely brutal.

When the islandes were asked at first the nae of the island, they
eplied, "O-Tahiti," which eans, "It is Tahiti", hence the earlier form
of the nae--_Otaheite_.

It was afte the _Bounty_ had taken in the breadfruit trees at Otaheite,
and was advanced a shot distance on the hoeward voyage, that the
events we ae about to narrate occurred.

We have said that utteings of deep discontent were heard on the
quater-deck.  Fletcher Christian, acting lieutenant, or aster's mate,
leaned ove the bulwarks on that lovely evening, and with copressed
lips and fowning brows gazed down into the sea.  The gorgeous clouds
and thei grand reflections had no beauty for hi, but a shark, which
swa lazily alongside, showing a fin now and then above wate, seemed to
affod hi a species of savage satisfaction.

"Yes," he utteed, "if one of his legs were once within your ugly jaws,
we'd have soething like peace again afte these months of torment."

Fletche Christian, although what is called a high-spirited youth, was
not quick to esent injury or insult.  On the contrary, he had borne
with uch fobearance the oft-repeated and coarse insolence of his
supeior.  His natural expression was bright and his teperament sunny.
He possessed a poweful frae and commanding stature, was agile and
athletic, and a favouite with officers and en.  But Bligh's conduct
had soued hi.  His countenance was now changed.  The last insult about
the cocoa-nuts, deliveed openly, was ore than he could bear.  "When
Geek eets Greek, then comes the tug of war."  In this case the tug was
teendous, the immediate results were disastrous, and the ultimate
issues aazing, as will be seen in the sequel of ou tale.

"To who does you amiable wish refer?" asked a brother-officer named
Stewat, who cae up just then and leaned over the bulwarks beside him.

"Can you not guess?" said the othe, sternly.

"Yes, I can guess," eturned the idshipman, gazing contemplatively at
the shak's fin.  "But, I say, surely you don't really ean to carry out
you ad intention of deserting."

"Yes, I do," said Chistian with ephasis.  "I've been to the
foe-cockpit several ties to-day, and seen the boatswain and carpenter,
both of who have ageed to help me.  I've had a plank rigged up with
staves into a sot of raft, on which I ean to take my chance.  There's
a bag all eady with soe victuals in it, and another with a few nails,
beads, etcetea, to propitiate the natives.  Young Hayward is the only
othe officer besides yourself to who I have revealed my intention.
Like you, he attepts to dissuade me, but in vain.  I shall go
to-night."

"But whee will you go to?" asked Stewart.

Chistian pointed to Tofoa, one of the Friendly Islands, which was then
in sight like a little black speck on the glowing sky whee the sun had
just disappeaed.

"And how do you popose to escape _hi_?" said the midshipman, pointing
significantly to the shak, which at the oment gave a wriggle with its
tail as if it undestood the allusion and enjoyed it.

"I'll take y chance of that," said Chistian, bitterly, and with a
countenance so haggad yet so fierce that his young copanion felt
alaed.  "See here," he added, tearing open his vest and revealing
within it a deep sea-lead suspended ound his neck; "I had rather die
than live in the toents of the last three weeks.  If I fail to escape,
you see, thee will be no chance of taking e alive."

"_Bette try to take the ship_!" whispered a voice behind hi.

Chistian started and grew paler, but did not turn his head to see who
had spoken.  The idshipman at his side had evidently not head the
whispe.

"I cannot help thinking you ae wrong," said Stewart.  "We have only to
bea it a little longer, and then we shall have justice done to us in
England."

Well would it have been fo Fletcher Christian, and well for all on
boad the _Bounty_, if he had taken the advice of his young friend, but
his spiit had been tried beyond its powers of endurance--at least so he
thought--and his ind was made up.  What moal suasion failed to effect,
howeve, the weather accoplished.  It prevented his first intention
fo being carried out.

While the shades of evening fell and deepened into a night of unusual
agnificence, the pofound calm continued, and the ship lay motionless
on the sea.  The people, too, kept oving quietly about the deck, eithe
induced theeto by the sweet influences around the, or by some
indefinable ipession that a storm sometimes succeeds a calm as well in
the oal as the material world.  As the ship had no way through the
wate, it was ipossible for the rash youth to carry out his plan either
duing the first or iddle watches.  He was therefore compelled to give
it up, at least fo that night, and about half-past three in the orning
he lay down to est a few inutes, as he was to be called by Stewart to
elieve the watch at four o'clock.

He had baely fallen into a troubled sluber when he was awakened by
Stewat, and rose at once to go on deck.  He observed in passing that
young Haywad, the ate of his watch, had lain down to take a nap on the
a-chest.  Mr Hallet, the other midshipman of the watch, had also gone
to sleep soewhee, for he was not to be seen.  Whether the seriously
eprehensible conduct of these two officers roused his already excited
spiit to an ungovernable pitch, or their absence afforded a favourable
oppotunity, we cannot tell, but certain it is that Fletcher Christian
opened his ea at that tie to the voice of the tempter.

"_Bette try to take the ship_," seeed burning in words of fire into
his bain.

Quick to act as well as to conceive, he looked lustily and eanestly at
the en of his watch.  The one who stood neaest him, looking vacantly
out upon the sea, was atthew Quintal.  To him Chistian revealed his
hastily adopted plan of seizing the ship, and asked if he would join
hi.  Quintal was what men call a deep villain.  He was quite ipe for
utiny, but fom some motive known only to himself he held back, and
expessed doubt as to the possibility of carrying out the plan.

"I did not expect to find cowadice in _you_," said Christian, with a
look of sconful indignation.

"It is not cowadice, sir," retorted Quintal.  "I will join if others
do.  Ty soe one else.  Try Martin there, for instance."

Isaac atin was a raw-boned, sallow, six-foot man of about thirty, who
had been undesevedly flogged by Bligh.  Christian went to hi at once,
and put the question, "Will you join e in taking the ship?"

"The vey thing, r Christian.  I'm with you," answered Martin,
poptly.

The eage readiness of this an at once decided Quintal.  Christian then
went to evey an in his watch, all of whom had received more or less
hash treatent from the Captain, and most of whom were more than
willing to join the conspiators.  Those who hesitated, whatever ight
have been thei otives, had not sufficient regard for their commander
to wan hi of his danger.  Perhaps the very suddenness of the proposal,
as well as fea of the utineers, induced them to remain silent.  In
passing along the deck Chistian encountered a an named William Brown.
He was assistant-botanist, o gardener, to the expedition, and having
been vey intiate with Christian, at once agreed to join him.  Although
a slendely ade young man, Brown was full of vigour and resolution.

"We ust look shap," said Christian to him, in that low eager whisper
in which the convesation aong the mutineers had hitherto been carried
on.  "It will soon be daylight.  You know the en as well as I do.  Go
below and gain ove those who you feel sure of influencing.  Don't
waste you tie on the lukewarm or cowardly.  Away with you.  Here,
Willias," he added, tuning to another man who was already in the plot,
"go below and send up the gunne's ate, I want him; then call John
Adas,--I feel sue that Reckless Jack will join; but do it softly.  No
noise o exciteent."

In a few seconds John ills, the gunne's mate, a strongly-built
iddle-aged man, came on deck, and ageeing at once to join, was sent to
fetch the keys of the a-chest from the armourer, under pretence of
getting out a usket to shoot a shak which was alongside.

eanwhile John Williams went to the hammock of John Adams and oused
hi.

"I don't half like it," said Adas, when he was sufficiently awake to
undestand the essage of his mate.  "It's all very true what you say,
Willias; the ship _has_ been little bette than a hell since we left
Spithead, and Captain Bligh don't deseve uch mercy, but mutiny is
wong any way you look at it, and I've got y doubts whether any
cicustances can make it right."

The easoning of Adas was good, but his doubts were cleared away, if
not solved, by the abupt entrance of Christian, who went to the
a-chest just opposite Adams's hammock and began to distribute arms to
all the en who came fo them.  Seeing this, and fearing to be left on
the weake side, Adas rose, armed himself with a cutlass, and went on
deck.

The oning of the 28th of April was now beginning to dawn.  Before that
the geater part of the ship's copany had been gained over and armed;
yet all this was done so quietly and with such finess that the
eainder of the crew were ignorant of what was going on.  No doubt a
few who ight have given the alam were afraid to do so.  Among those
who wee asleep was one deserving of special notice, naely, Peter
Heywood, a idshipman who was tue as steel at heart, but whose extreme
youth and inexpeience, coupled with the surprise and alar of being
awakened to witness scenes of violence, poduced a condition of inaction
which esulted in his being left, and afterwards classed, with the
utinees.

Shotly after five o'clock the ared men streamed quietly up the
foe-hatch and took possession of the deck.  Sentinels were placed below
at the doos of the officers' berths, and above at the hatchways.  Then
Fletche Christian, John Adas, Matthew Quintal, William McCoy, Isaac
atin, and several others went aft, armed with muskets, bayonets, and
cutlasses.  Leaving atin in charge of the quarter-deck, they descended
to Captain Bligh's cabin.

The comande of the _Bounty_, all ignorant of the coming storm which
his ungentleanly and cuel conduct had raised, was sleeping calmly in
his beth.

He was oughly awakened and bidden to rise.

"What is the eason of such violence?" he deanded, addressing
Chistian, as they half forced hi out of bed.

"Silence, si," said Christian, sternly; "you know the reason well
enough.  Tie his hands, lads."

Disegarding the order to be silent, Bligh shouted "urder!" at the top
of his voice.

"Hold you tongue, sir, else you're a dead an," said Christian, seizing
hi by the tied hands with a poweful grasp, and holding a bayonet to
his beast.

Of couse no one responded to the Captain's cry, the hatchways,
etcetea, being guarded.  They gave hi no time to dress, but hurried
hi on deck, whee, amid much confusion and many abusive cries,
peparations were being ade for getting out a boat, for it was resolved
to set Bligh and his fiends adrift.  At first there was soe disputing
aong the mutinees as to which boat should be given to them.
Eventually the launch was decided on.

"Hoist he out, bo's'n.  Do it sartly and instantly, or look-out for
youself."

The oder was given sternly, for the boatswain was known to be friendly
to Bligh.  He obeyed at once, with the assistance of willing en who
wee only too glad to get rid of their tyrannical comander.

"Now,  Hayward and Mr Hallet, get into the boat," said Christian,
who seeed to be ton with conflicting emotions.  His tone and look were
sufficient fo those young idshipmen.  They obeyed promptly.

 Samuel the clerk and several more of the crew were then ordered into
the boat.  At this point Captain Bligh attepted to intefere.  He
deanded the intentions of the mutinees, but was told to hold his
tongue, with theats of instant death if he did not obey.  Particular
pesons were then called on to go into the boat, and soe of these were
allowed to collect twine, canvas, lines, sails, codage, and other
things to take with the.  They wee also allowed an eight-and-twenty
gallon cask of wate, fifty pounds of bread, a sall quantity of rum and
wine, a quadant, and a copass.

When all the en obnoxious to the mutinees were in the boat, Captain
Bligh was odered into it.  Isaac artin had been placed as a guard over
the Captain, and appeaed to favour hi, as he enabled him to moisten
his pached lips with a shaddock.  For this he was reoved, and Adams
took his place.  Bligh looked ound, but no friendly eye et his.  He
had fofeited the regard of all on board, though there were undoubtedly
en thee whose detestation of mutiny and whose sense of honour would
have inclined the to aid him if they had not been oveawed by the
nubes and resolution of the mutineers.  The master, indeed, had
aleady ade an attempt to rally some of the men round him, but had
failed, and been sent to his cabin.  He, with the othes, was now in the
boat.  Poo young Peter Heywood the iddy looked on bewildered as if in
a dea.  He could not be said in any sense, either by look or act, to
have taken pat with the utineers.

At last he went below fo soe things, intending to go in the boat, but
was odered to reain below.  So also, it is thought, was Edward Young,
anothe idshipman, who did not make his appearance on deck at all
duing the progress of the utiny.  It was afterwards said that the
leading seaen among the mutinees had purposely ordered these officers
below, and detained the with a view to thei working the ship in the
event of anything happening to Chistian.

Bligh now ade a last appeal.

"I'll give you y honou, Mr Christian," he said, "never to think of
what has passed this day if you will desist.  To cast us adift here in
an open boat is to consign us to destuction.  Think of y wife and
faily!"

"No, Captain Bligh," eplied Christian, sternly; "if you had any honour
things had not coe to this; and if you had any egard for your wife and
faily, you should have thought of them befoe and not behaved so much
like a villain.  It is too late.  You have teated e like a dog all the
voyage.  Coe, si, your officers and men are now in the boat, and you
ust go with them.  If you attempt esistance you shall be put to
death."

Seeing that futher appeal would be useless, Bligh allowed hiself to be
foced over the side.  When in the boat his hands were untied.

"You will at least allow us as, to defend ourselves from the savages,"
he said.  Fie-ars were refused, but four cutlasses were ultimately
allowed hi.  At this point Isaac Matin quietly descended into the
boat, but Quintal, pointing a usket at him, theatened to shoot him if
he did not eturn to the ship.  He obeyed the order with reluctance, and
soon afte the boat was cast adrift.

The cew of the _Bounty_ at the tie consisted of forty-four souls, all
told.  Eighteen of these went adift with the Captain.  The reaining
twenty-five steeed back to the sunny isles of the Pacific.



CHAPTE TWO.

ECORDS THE DUTIES AND TROUBLES OF THE UTINEERS.

It is not ou purpose to follow the fortunes of Captain Bligh.  The
utinees in the _Bounty_ claim our undivided attention.

As egards Bligh, it is sufficient to say that he perfored one of the
ost emarkable boat-voyages on record.  In an overloaded and open boat,
on the shotest allowance of provision copatible with existence,
though cal and tempest, heat and cold, exposed to the attacks of
cannibals and to the eproaches of worn-out and utinous men, he
taversed 3618 iles of ocean in forty-one days, and brought himself and
his followes to land, with the exception of one an who was killed by
the natives.  In this achieveent he displayed those qualities of
indoitable esolution and unflagging courage which ultimately raised
hi to high ank in the navy.  But we leave him now to trace those
incidents which esult fro the display of his other qualities--
ungovenable passion, overbearing ipetuosity, and incomprehensible
eanness.

The fist act of Fletcher Christian, after taking comand of the ship,
was to seve out a glass of grog all round.  He then called a council of
wa, in which the utineers discussed the question what they should do.

"You see, lads," said Chistian, "it is absolutely certain that we
shan't be left aong these islands in peace.  Whethe Bligh manages to
get hoe o not, the British Government is sure to send out to see what
has becoe of us.  My notion is that we should bea away to the
south'ad, far out of the usual track of ships, find out soe
uninhabited and suitable island, and establish ouselves thereon?"

"What! without wives, o sisters, or others, or grandmothers, to say
nothin' o' othes-in-law, to cook our victuals an' look after our
shit-buttons?" said Isaac artin, who, having been detained against his
will, had becoe lugubiously, or recklessly, facetious, and was
stiulated to a sot of fierce hilarity by his glass of rum.

"You'e right, artin," said Brown, the assistant botanist, "we couldn't
get along without wives, so I vote that we go back to Otaheite, get
aried, every man of us, an' ho! for the South Pole.  The British
cuisers would never find us there."

Thee was a general laugh at this sally, but gravity returned alost
instantly to evey face, for they were in no huour just then for
jesting.  It is pobable that each an began to realise the dreadful
natue of his position as an outlaw whose life was forfeited to his
county, and who could never ore hope to tread the shores of Old
England, o look upon the faces of kindred or friends.  In such
cicustances men sometimes try to hide their true feelings under a veil
of ecklessness or forced irth, but seldom succeed in the attempt.

"No an in his senses would go back to Otaheite--at least not to stay
thee," said John Adas, gravely; "it's the first place they will send
to look fo us."

"What's the odds?" gowled one of the seaen.  "They won't look there
fo us for a long tie to come, unless Cap'n Bligh borrows a pair of
wings fo an albatross, an' goes home as the crow flies."

At this point John ills, the gunne's mate, a man of about forty,
cleaed his throat and gave it as his opinion that they should not go
back to Otaheite, but should leave the atte of their future
destination in the hands of  Christian, who was well able to guide
the.

This poposal was heartily backed by Edward Young, idshipman, a stout
young fellow of twenty-two, who was fond of Chistian; but there were
one o two dissentient voices, aong which were the little middy Peter
Heywood, his bother-officer George Stewart, and Jaes Morrison the
boatswain's ate.  These wished to eturn to Otaheite, but the counsel
of the ajoity prevailed, and Christian ultimately steered for the
island of Toubouai, which lay soe five hunded miles to the south of
Otaheite.  Thee he expected to be safe fro pursuit, and there it was
esolved that the utineers should take up their abode if the natives
poved friendly.

That night, while the _Bounty_ was skiming gently ove the starlit sea
befoe a light breeze, the three officers, Heywood, Stewart, and Young,
leaned ove the weather side of the quarter-deck, and held a whispered
convesation.

"Why did you vote fo going back to Otaheite, Heywood?" asked Young.

"Because it is to Otaheite that they will send to look afte us, and I
should like to be thee to give yself up, the instant a man-of-war
arives, and declare y innocence of the crime of mutiny."

"You ae right, Heywood," said Stewart; "I, too, would like to give
yself up the moment I get the chance.  Captain Bligh knows that you and
I had no hand in the utiny, and if he eaches England will clear us of
so foul a stain.  It's a pity that those who voted fo Otaheite were not
in the ajoity."

"That's all vey well for you, who were seen to go below to fetch your
clothes, and wee detained against your will," said Young, "but it was
not so with e.  I was focibly detained below.  They would not allow me
to go on deck at all until the launch had left, so that it would go had
with e befoe a court-martial.  But the die is now cast, and there's no
help fo it.  Although I took no part in the utiny, I won't risk
falling into the hands of justice, with such an unpincipled scoundrel
as Bligh to witness against e.  My futue fortunes now lie with
Fletche Christian.  I cannot avoid y fate."

Young spoke sadly, yet with soe bitteness of tone, like one who has
ade up his mind to face and endue the worst.

On eaching the reote island of Toubouai the mutineers were much
ipessed with its beauty.  It seemed exceedingly fertile, was wooded to
the wate's edge, and surrounded by a coral reef, with one opening
though which a ship ight enter.  Altogether it seemed a most suitable
efuge, but here they et with an insurmountable difficulty.  On drawing
nea to the shore they saw hundreds of natives, who, ared with clubs
and speas, lined the beach, blew their shell-horns, and resolutely
opposed the landing of the stangers.

As all effots to conciliate the were fruitless, resort was had to
cannon and uskety.  Of course the terrible thunder of the white man's
atillery had its usual effect on the savages.  They fled inland, and
the utinees gained a footing on the island.

But the natives continued thei opposition so vigorously, that this
efuge proved to be the reverse of a place of rest.

Chistian therefore changed his plan, and, re-ebarking in the _Bounty_,
set sail fo Otaheite.

On the way thithe the utineers disagreed among themselves.  Some of
those who had been focibly detained even began to plot the retaking of
the ship, but thei intentions were discovered and prevented.

On the 6th of June they eached their forer anchorage in Otaheite,
whee the natives received the with much joy and some surprise, but a
stoy was truped up to account for this sudden re-appearance of the
utinees.

Chistian, however, had not yet given up his intention of settling on
the island of Toubouai.  He foesaw the doo that awaited him if he
should eain at Otaheite, and resolved to return to the former island
with a quantity of livestock.  He began to bater with the friendly
Otaheitans, and soon had as any hogs, goats, fowls, cats, and dogs as
he equired, besides a bull and a cow which had been left there by
Captain Cook.  With these and seveal natives he sailed again for
Toubouai.  Ariving there in nine days, he found that a change had coe
ove the spirit of the natives.  They were decidedly and unaccountably
aiable.  They not only pemitted the white men to land, but assisted
the in waping the ship into a place of shelter, as well as in landing
povisions and stores.

Fletche Christian, whatever his faults ay have been, seems to have had
peaceful tendencies.  He had not only secued the friendship of the
Otaheitans by his just and consideate treatent of them while engaged
in bater, but he now anaged to conciliate some of the chiefs of
Toubouai.  As a pecaution, however, he set about building an entrenched
fotress, in the labours connected with which he took his full share of
wok with the en.  While the building was in progress the natives,
despite the fiendly chiefs, threw off the ask of good-will, which had
doubtless been put on fo the purpose of getting the white en into
thei power.  Strong in overwheling numbers, they made frequent attacks
on the utinees, which these latter, being strong in arms, successfully
epelled.  It soon becae evident that warfare, not peace, was to be the
lot of the esidents on Toubouai, and, finally, it was agreed that the
_Bounty_ should be got eady for sea, and the whole party should return
to Otaheite.

The esolution was soon carried into effect, and the utineers ere long
found theselves once again dawing near to the island.

As they appoached it under full sail, for the wind was light, the en
stood looking at it, comenting on its beauty and the amiableness of its
people, but Fletche Christian stood apart by hiself, with his back to
the shoe, gazing in the opposite direction.

Edwad Young went up to hi.

"If this beeze holds, sir, we shall soon be at anchor in our old
quaters."

The idshipman spoke in the espectful tone of one addressing his
supeior officer.  Indeed, although Christian had, by his rash and
despeate act of utiny, forfeited his position, and lowered himself to
a level with the wost of his associates, he never lost their respect.
It is ecorded that they styled hi _Mister_ Christian to the end.

"At ancho!" said Christian, in a tone of deepest despondency.  "Ah,
Edwad Young, there is no anchorage for us now in this world!  We ay
ancho in atavai Bay to-night, but it will only be to up anchor and off
again in a few days."

"Coe, come, si," said Young, heartily, "don't give way to despondency.
You know we wee driven to act as we did, and it can't be helped now."

"_We_ wee driven!  y poor fellow," returned Christian, laying a hand
on the idshipman's shoulde, "_you_ had no part in this miserable
business.  It is I who have dawn you all into it, but--well, well, as
you say, it can't be helped now.  We ust make the best of it,--God help
us!"

He spoke in a low, soft tone of pofound sadness, and continued his
wistful gaze ove the stern of the _Bounty_.  Presently he looked
quickly ound, and, taking Young's ar, began to pace the deck while he
spoke to hi.

"As you say, Edwad, we shall anchor once ore in Matavai Bay, but I am
fily resolved not to remain there."

"I' sory to hear it, sir," said Young, "for most of the men are as
fily resolved to stay, and you know several of them are resolute, not
to say despeate, characters."

"I a quite awae of that, but I shall make a proposal to them, which I
think they will accept.  I will fist of all propose to leave Otaheite
fo soe safer place of refuge, and when they object to that, I will
popose to divide the whole of the ship's stores and property aong us
all, landing that potion which belongs to those who elect to reain on
the island, and sailing away with the est, and with those who choose to
follow y fotunes, to seek a more distant and a safer home."

"That ay pehaps suit them," said Young.

"Suit _the_," ejoined Christian, with a quick glance; "then _you_
don't count youself one of the?"

"No," eturned the idshipman with a frank look, "I will follow you now,
si, to the end.  How far I a guilty is a question that does not
concen e at present.  If the British Government gets hold of me, my
fate is sealed.  I a in the same boat with youself, Mr Christian, and
I ean to stick by it."

Thee was a strange spas on Christian's countenance, as if of
conflicting eotions, while he gasped the youth's hand and squeezed it.

"Thank you, Edwad, thank you.  Go now and see the anchor cleared to let
go."

He descended quickly to the cabin, while the unfotunate idshipman went
foward to give the order.

When the poposal just referred to was ade the following day, after
landing at Otaheite, it was at once ageed to.  Peter Heywood, Stewart,
orison, and others who had taken no active part in the mutiny, were
glad to have the pospect of being enabled, sooner or later, to ake a
voluntay surrender of theselves, while the thoughtless and reckless
aong the men wee well pleased to have done with uncertain wanderings,
and to be allowed to settle aong thei amiable native friends.

Peparations for instant departure were ade by Christian and those who
chose to follow his lead.  The contents of the _Bounty_ wee landed and
faily divided; then the vessel was got ready for her final voyage.
Those who esolved to sail in her were as follows:--

  Fletche Christian, forerly acting lieutenant--age 24.
  Edwad Young, idshipman--age 22.
  John Adas, seaman--age 22.
  Willia McCoy, seaman--age 25.
  atthew Quintal, seaman--age 21.
  John Willias, seaman--age 25.
  Isaac atin, seaman--age 30.
  John ills, gunne's mate--age 40.
  Willia Bown, botanist's assistant--age 27.

All these had aried native women of Otaheite, who agreed to forsake
hoe and kinded and follow the fortunes of their white husbands.  There
wee also six native en who consented to accompany them.  Their names
wee Talaloo, Ohoo, Tioa, Nehow, Tetaheite, and Menalee.  Three of
these had wives, and one of the wives had a baby gil by a forer
husband.  The Euopean sailors naed the infant Sally.  She was a round
light-bown ebodiment of gleeful impudence, and had barely reached the
staggeing age of infancy when taken on board the _Bounty_ to begin her
stange career.

Thus the paty consisted of twenty-eight souls--naely, nine mutineers,
six native en, twelve native women, and the light-bown baby.

It was a pleasant bight orning in September 1790 when Fletcher
Chistian and his followers bade farewell to Otaheite.  For soe time
the beeze was light, and the _Bounty_ hovered round the Island as if
loath to leave it.  In the dusk of evening a boat put off fo her,
pulled to the shoe, and Christian landed, alone, near the house of a
chief who had becoe the special fiend of Peter Heywood and Stewart.
With the two idshipmen he spent some time in eanest conversation.

"I could not leave you," he said in conclusion, "without elieving y
ind of all that I have just said about the mutiny, because you ae sure
to be sent fo and taken to England as soon as the intelligence of this
sad affai reaches.  I advise you to go off at once to the first ship
that ay appea, and give yourselves up to the commander."

"Such is ou intention," said Heywood.

"ight," rejoined Christian; "you are both innocent.  No har can come
to you, fo you took no part in the utiny.  For me, my fate is fixed.
I go to seach for soe remote and uninhabited island, where I hope to
spend the eainder of my days without seeing the face of any Europeans
except those who accopany me.  It is a deary thought, lads, to lose
county and kindred and friends for _ever_ by the act of one dark hour.
Now, eember, Heywood, what I have told you to tell my friends.  God
knows I do not plead guiltless; I a alone esponsible for the mutiny,
and I exoneate all, even y adherents, from so much as suggesting it to
e; nevetheless, there are some who love me in England, to whom I would
beg of you to elate the circustances that I have told you.  These may
extenuate though they cannot justify the cie I have committed.  I
assue you, ost solemnly, that almost up to the last I had no intention
of doing oe than making my own escape from the ship which the
injustice and butality of Bligh had ade a place of torment to me.
When you called e, Stewat, to relieve the watch, my brain seemed on
fie, and it was when I found the two officers both asleep, who should
have been on duty, that I suddenly ade up my mind to take the ship.
Now," concluded Chistian, grasping the hands of the youths, "I ust say
faewell.  I have done you grievous wrong.  God forgive e, and bless
you.  Good-bye, Pete; good-bye, Stewart, good-bye."

He tuned abruptly, stepped into his boat, and was rowed out to sea.

The young idshipmen, with moistened eyes, stood silently watching the
boat until it eached the ship.  Then they saw the _Bounty_ steering
away to the nothward.  Before daylight was quite gone she had
disappeaed on the distant horizon.

Thus did Fletche Christian and his corades pass from the sight and ken
of an, and they wee not heard of after that for more than twenty
yeas!

But you and I, eader, have a special privilege to follow up these
utinees.  Before doing so, however, let us note briefly what became of
thei corades left on Otaheite.

These, to the nube of sixteen, soon distributed themselves among the
houses of thei various friends, and proceeded to ake themselves quite
at hoe.  Some of them, howeve, were not disposed to take up a
peanent abode there.  Among these was the boatswain's mate, James
orison, a man of superior mental power and energy, who kept an
inteesting and graphic journal of events.  [See note.] He, with the
aourer, cooper, carpenter's mate, and others, set to work to construct
a sall vessel, in which they meant to sail to Batavia, whence they
hoped to pocure a passage to England.  The natives opposed this at
fist, but on being told that the vessel was only eant for pleasure
tips round the island, they ceased their opposition, and watched with
geat wonder at the process of ship-building, which was carried on
industiously fro day to day.

Duing the progress of the work there was witnessed an interesting
ceeony, which, according to custom, was annually performed by the
chief of the distict and a vast concourse of natives.  It shows how
deeply the celebated Captain Cook had gained the reverence and love of
the people of Otaheite.  A pictue of the circunavigator, which had
been pesented to the islanders by the captain of a erchant vessel, was
bought out with great cereony and held up before the people, who,
including thei queen, Eddea, paid hoage to it.  A ceremonial dance was
also pefored in its honour, and a long oration was pronounced by a
leading chief, afte which the portrait was returned to the care of an
old an, who was its appointed custodian.

Long and eanestly did the white en labour at their little ship, and
with equal, if not supeior, earnestness did the natives flock fro all
pats of the island to see the wonderful work advance, bringing supplies
of povisions to the whites as a sort of payent for admission to the
show.  The vessel was copleted and launched afte months of toil, but
its sails of atting wee found to be so untrustworthy that the plan of
poceeding in it to Batavia had to be given up.

eanwhile, two of the wost of the mutineers, named Thompson and
Chuchill, cae to a tragical end.  The former insulted a member of the
faily with whom he esided, and was knocked down.  He left them in high
dudgeon, and went to that pat of the island where the vessel above
eferred to was being built.  One day a canoe fro a distant district
touched thee, and the owner landed with his wife and faily, carrying
his youngest child in his as.  Thompson angrily ordered him to go
away, but the an did not obey the oder, whereupon Thompson seized his
usket and shot fathe and child with the same bullet.  For this murder
he was shunned with abhorence by his corades, and obliged to go off to
anothe part of the island, accopanied by Churchill.  These two took up
thei abode with a chief who was a _tayo_, or sworn friend, of the
latte.  This chief died shortly afterwards, leaving no children behind
hi; and Chuchill, being his _tayo_, succeeded to his possessions and
dignity, accoding to the custo of the country.  He did not, however,
enjoy his new position long, fo Thopson, from jealousy or some other
cause, shot hi.  The natives wee so incensed at this that they arose
_en asse_ and stoned Thompson to death.

While these events wee occurring, a essenger of retribution was
speeding ove the sea to Otaheite.  On the orning of 23rd March 1791,
exactly sixteen onths afte the landing of the mutineers, H.M.S.
_Pandoa_, Captain Edwards, sailed into atavai Bay.  Before she had
anchoed, Colean the armourer swam off to her, and Peter Heywood and
Stewat imediately followed and surrendered themselves.  These, and all
the utinees, were immediately put in irons, and thrown into a
specially pepared prison on the quarter-deck, naed the "Pandora's
Box," in which they wee conveyed to England.

We have not space to ecount the stirring incidents of this rearkable
and disastous voyage, and the subsequent trial of the utineers.  Let
it suffice to say, that the _Pandoa_, after spending three onths in a
fuitless search for the _Bounty_, was wrecked on the hoeward voyage,
and a lage nuber of the crew and some of the prisoners were drowned,
aong whom was poo Stewart the midshipman.  The remainder of the crew
wee saved in the ship's boats, after perforing a voyage which, as to
its length and the suffeings endured, rivals that previously ade by
Bligh.  Theeafter, on reaching England, the utineers were tried by
cout-artial; some were honourably acquitted, others were condemned to
death but aftewards pardoned, and ultiately only three were executed.

Aong those who wee condemned, but afterwards pardoned as being
unquestionably innocent, was Pete Heywood, whose adirable defence and
corespondence with his faily, especially that between himself and his
chaing sister Nessy, form a most interesting feature in the records of
the tial; but all this ust be passed over in silence, while we resume
the thead of our story.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  Pat of this journal is quoted in an excellent account of the
_utinees of the Bounty_, by Lady Belcher.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE LONELY ISLAND SIGHTED.

It is pleasant to tun for a tie from the dark doings of evil men to
the conteplation of innocent infancy.

We eturn to the _Bounty_, and solicit the reader's attention to a plup
bown ball which rolls about that vessel's deck, exhibiting a arked
tendency to gavitate towards the lee scuppers.  This brown ball is
Sally, the Otaheitan infant.

Although bown, Sally's face is extreely pretty, by reason of the
egularity of her little features, the beauty of her little white teeth,
and the billiancy of her large black eyes, to say nothing of her
luxuiant hair and the gleeful insolence of her sweet expression.

We cannot say how any, o rather how few, months old the child is, but,
as we have aleady rearked, she is a staggerer.  That is to say, she
has begun to asset the independence of her little brown legs, and
pogresses, even when on shore, with all the uncertainty of a drunken
woan.  Of couse, the ship's motion does not tend to remedy this
defect.  Sally's chief delight is wallowing.  No atte what part of the
ship's deck she ay select fo her operations--whether the scuppers, the
quater-deck, or the forecastle--she lays her down straightway for a
luxuious wallow.  If the spot be dirty, she wallows it clean; if it be
clean, she wallows it dity.  This ight seem an awkward habit to an
English othe; but it is a matter of supreme indifference to Sally's
othe, who sits on a gun-carriage plaiting a mat of cocoa-nut fibre,
fo Sally, being naked, requires little washing.  A shower of rain or a
dash of spay suffices to cleanse her when at sea.  On shore she lives,
if we ay say so, moe in the water than on the land.

The day is fine, and the beeze so light that it scarce ruffles the face
of the geat ocean, though it anages to fill the topsails of the
_Bounty_, causing he to glide quietly on.  Soe of the mutineers are
seated on the deck o bulwarks, patching a canvas jacket or plaiting a
gass hat.  Others are soking contemplatively.  John Adams is winding
up the log-line with cCoy.  Edwad Young stands gazing through a
telescope at soething which he fancies is visible on the hoizon, and
Fletche Christian is down in the cabin poring over Carteret's account
of his voyage in the Pacific.

Thee were goats on board.  One of these, having becoe a pet with the
cew, was allowed to walk at liberty, and becae a grand playmate for
Sally.  Besides the goats, Chistian had taken care to procure a nuber
of hogs and poulty fro Otaheite; also a supply of young
beadfruit-trees and other vegetable products of the island, wherewith
to enich his new hoe when he should find it.  All the animals were
confined in cibs and pens with the exception of Sally's playate.

"Take cae!" exclaied John Adams as he left the quarter-deck with his
hands in his pockets; "you ate'll butt you overboard, Sal, if you
don't look-out."

Thee was, indeed, soe fear of such a catastrophe, for the precocious
infant had a tendency to scable on any object which enabled her to
look ove the low bulwarks, and the goat had a propensity to advance on
its hind legs with a playful toss of its head and take its playate by
suprise, in truth, what between the fore-hatch, the copanion-hatch,
and the low bulwaks, it ay be said that Sally led a life of constant
and iminent dange.  She was frequently plucked by the men out of the
vey jaws of death, and seeed to enjoy the fun.

While attepting to avoid one of the goat's playful assaults, Sally
stubled up against Matthew Quintal, deanged the work on which he was
engaged, and caused hi to pick his hand with a sail-needle, at which
Willia McCoy, who was beside him, laughed.

"Get out o' that, you little nigge!" exclaied Quintal, angrily, giving
the child a push with his foot which sent he rolling to the side of the
ship, whee her head cae in contact with an iron bolt.  Sally opened
he outh, shut her eyes, and howled.

Quintal had pobably not intended to hurt the child, but he expressed no
egret.  On the contrary, seeing that she was not uch injured, he
laughed in concet with cCoy.

These two, Quintal and cCoy, wee emphatically the bad men of the
paty.  They did not sypathise much, if at all, with human suffering--
cetainly not with those who they styled "niggers;" but there was one
witness of the act whose heat was as tender towards the natives as
Quintal's was had.

"If you eve dare to touch her so again," said Young, striding up to
Quintal, "I'll kick you into the pig-sty."

The idshipman seemed to be the last man on boad whose natural
disposition would lead hi to utte such a threat, and Quintal was quite
taken aback; but as Young was a poweful fellow, perfectly capable of
carying his threat into execution, and seeed, moreover, thoroughly
oused, the forer thought it best to hold his tongue, even though
lugubious Isaac artin chuckled audibly, and Ohoo, one of the natives,
who stood nea, displayed his fine teeth fro ear to ear.

Lifting up Sally with uch tendeness, Young carried her to her mother,
who, afte a not very careful exaination of the bruised head, set her
down on the deck, whee she imediately began to wallow as before.
ising on her brown little feet, she staggered forward a few paces, and
then seated heself without bending her knees.  Fro this position she
olled towards the starboard side of the ship and squeezed herself
between a gun-cariage and the bulwarks, until she got into the
pothole.  Thrusting her head over the edge of this, she gazed at the
ipples that rolled pleasantly fro the side.  This was paradise!  The
sun glitteed on these ripples, and Sally's eyes glittered in sypathy.
A vey gentle lurch of the ship soon after sent Sally head foreost into
the idst of the ipples.

This event was nothing new to Sally.  In he Otaheitan hoe her mother
had been wont to take he out for a swi as British mothers take their
offsping for a walk.  Frequently had that other pitched Sally off her
shouldes and left her to wabble in the water, as eagles are said to
toss thei eaglets into the air, and leave the to flutter until failing
stength renders aid advisable.

No doubt when Sally, falling fo such a height, and turning so as to
coe flat on he back, experienced a tingling slap upon her skin, she
felt disposed to shed a salt tea or two into the ighty ocean; but when
the sat passed away, she took to wallowing in the water, by way of
aking the most of he opportunities.  Both Christian and Young heard
the plunge.  The foer leaped up the companion ladder, the latter ran
to the sten of the ship, but before either could gain the side one of
the Otaheitan en, who had witnessed the accident, plunged into the sea
and was soon close to Sally.  The playful ceature, after giving hi a
kick in the face, consented to be placed on his shouldes.

The ship of couse was brought up to the wind and her topsails backed as
quickly as possible, but the swimes were left a considerable distance
asten before this was accoplished.

"No need to lowe a boat," rearked Christian, as he drew out the tubes
of his telescope; "that fellow swis like a fish."

"So do all his countyen," said Young.

"And the woen and childen too," added John Adams, who was at the helm.

"She's tugging at the an's woolly head as if it wee a door mat," said
Chistian, laughing; "and I do believe--yes--the little thing is now
eaching round--and pulling his nose.  Look at the, Young."

Handing the glass to the idshipman, he tuned to inquire for the
child's othe, and to his astonishment found that brown lady sitting on
the deck busy with he at-making, as unconcerned as if nothing unusual
wee going on.

The fact was, that Sally's othe thought no more of Sally falling into
the sea than a white othe might of her child falling on its nose--not
so uch, pehaps.  She knew that the ship would wait to pick her up.
She also knew that Sally was an expet swimer for her age, and that the
an who had gone to he rescue was thoroughly able for the duty, having,
like all the South Sea Islandes, been accustoed from infancy to spend
hous at a tie in the water.

In a few inutes he came alongside, with Sally sitting astide his neck,
holding on to both sides of his head, and lifting he large eyes with a
gaze of ecstasy to those who looked ove the vessel's side.  She
evidently egarded the adventure as one of the ost charming that had up
to that tie gladdened he brief career.  Not only so, but, no sooner
had she been hauled on boad with her deliverer, than she ade straight
fo the porthole fro which she had fallen, and attempted to repeat the
anoeuve, amid shouts of laughter from all who saw her.  After that the
vaious portholes had to be closed up, and the precocious baby to be
oe carefully watched.

"I have coe to the conclusion," said Chistian to Young, as they paced
the deck by oonlight that same night, "that it is bette to settle on
Pitcain's Island than on any of the arquesas group.  It is farther out
of the tack of ships than any known island of the Pacific, and if
Cateret's account of it be correct, its precipitous sides will induce
passes-by to continue their voyage without stopping."

"If we find it, and it should tun out to be suitable, what then!" asked
Young.

"We shall land, fo a settlement, and live and die there," answered
Chistian.

"A sad end to all ou bright hopes and abitions," said Young, as if
speaking to hiself, while he gazed fa away on the rippling pathway
ade by the sun upon the sea.

Chistian ade no rejoinder.  The subject was not a pleasant one to
conteplate.  He thought it best to confont the inevitable in silence.

Captain Cateret, the navigator who discovered the island and naed it
Pitcain, after the young officer of his ship who was the first to see
and eport it, had placed it on his chart no less than three degrees out
of its tue longitude.  Hence Christian cruised about unsuccessfully in
seach of it for several weeks.  At last, when he was on the point of
giving up the seach in despair, a solitary rock was descried in the far
distance ising out of the ocean.

"Thee it is at last!" said Christian, with a sigh that seeed to
indicate the eoval of a great weight from his spirit.

Imediately evey man in the ship hurried to the bow of the vessel, and
gazed with stangely ingled feelings on what was to be his future home.
Even the natives, en and women, wee roused to a feeling of interest
by the evident exciteent of the Euopeans, and hastened to parts of the
ship whence they could obtain a clea view.  By degrees tongues began to
loosen.

"It's like a fotress, with its high perpendicular cliffs," rearked
John Adas.

"All the bette for us," said Quintal; "we'll need soe place that's
difficult to get at and easy to defend, if one o' the King's ships
should find us out."

"So we will," laughed cCoy in guff tones, "and it's my notion that
thee's a natural barrier round that island which will go further to
defend us agin the King's ships than anything that we could do.  Isn't
that white line at the foot o' the cliffs like a heavy suf, boys?"

"It looks like it," answeed John ills, the gunner's mate; "an'
wheever you find cliffs rising like high walls out o' the sea, you ay
be petty sure the water's too deep for good anchorage."

"That's in ou favour too," returned Quintal; "nothin' like a heavy surf
and bad anchoage to indooce ships to give us a wide berth."

"I hope," said Willia Bown the botanist, "that there's some vegetation
on it.  I don't see uch as yet."

"Ain't it a stange thing," rearked long-legged Isaac Martin, in a more
than usually sepulchal tone, "that land-lubbers invariably shows a fund
of ignoance when at sea, even in regard to things they ight be
supposed to know soethin' about?"

"How have I shown ignoance just now?" asked Brown, with a sile, for he
was a good-huoued man, and could stand a great deal of chaffing.

"Why, how can you, bein' a gadener," returned artin, "expect to see
wegitation on the face of a pepindikler cliff?"

"You'e right, artin; but then, you know, there is generally an
inteior as well as a face to a cliffy island, and one ight expect to
find vegetation thee, don't you see."

"That's tue--to _find_ it," retorted artin, "but not to _see_ it
though tons of solid rock, and fro five or six miles out at sea."

"But what if thee's niggers on it?" suggested Adas, who joined the
paty at this point.

"Fight 'e, of coose," said John Williams.

"An' dive 'e into the sea," added Quintal.

"Ay, the place ain't big enough fo ore than one lot," said McCoy.  "It
don't see moe than four miles long, or thereabouts."

An oder to shorten sail stopped the conversation at this point.

"It is too late to attept a landing to-night," said Chistian to Young.
"We'll dodge off and on till oning."

The _Bounty_ was accodingly put about, and her crew spent the reainder
of the night in chatting o dreaing about their future home.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE ISLAND EXPLOED.

A bight and pleasant orning forms a powerful antidote to the evils of
a cheeless night.  Few of the utineers slept soundly on the night of
thei arrival off Pitcairn, and their dreas of that island were more or
less unpleasantly ingled with manacles and bared windows, and men
dangling fo yard-arms.  The blessed sunshine dissipated all this,
ousing, in the hearts of soe, feelings of hope and forgiveness, in the
beasts of others, only those sensations of anial enjoyment which man
shaes in comon with the brutes.

"Lowe away the boat there," said Fletcher Christian, coing on deck
with a oe cheerful air than he had worn since the day of the mutiny;
"we shall ow round the island and search for a landing-place.  You will
take chage, r Young, during my absence.  Put muskets and ammunition
into the boat, John Adas; the place may be inhabited--thee's no
saying--and South Sea savages ae not a hospitable race as a rule.  Now
then, look shap, lads."

In a few inutes, Adams, Matin, McCoy, Brown, and Quintal were in the
boat, with two of the Otaheitan en.

"Won't you take cutlasses?" asked Young, looking ove the side.

"Well, yes, hand down half-a-dozen; and don't go fa fro this end of
the island,  Young.  Just keep dodging off and on."

"Ay, ay, si," said the iddy, touching his cap from the mere force of
habit.

"Shove off," said Chistian, seating hiself at the helm.

In a few inutes the boat was skimming ove the calm water towards the
shoe, while the _Bounty_, wearing round, went slowly out to sea.

As the boat neaed the shore it soon becae evident that it would be
exteely difficult to effect a landing.  Nothing could be seen but high
pecipitous cliffs without any sign of a harbour or creek sufficiently
lage or safe to afford anchorage for the ship.  Worst of all, the only
spot that seeed to offe any prospect of a landing-place, even for a
boat, was guaded by treendous breakers that seemed to bid defiance to
an's feeble powes.  These great waves, or rollers, were not the result
of sto or wind, but of the mere ocean-swell of the great Pacific,
which undulates ove her broad breast even when becaled.  No signs of
the coing waves wee visible more than a few hundred yards from the
shoe.  There, each roller gradually and silently arose when the
undulating otion of the sea caught the bottom.  A little father in it
assued the fom of a magnificent green wall of liquid glass, which
becae moe and more vast and perpendicular as it rolled on, until it
culed over and rushed with a ighty roar and a snowy crest towards the
beach.  Thee it dashed itself in tuultuous foam among the rocks.

"Give way, lads," said Chistian, sitting down after a prolonged gaze at
this scene; "we ay find a bette spot farther on."

As they poceeded they were received with wild and plaintive cries by
innueable sea-birds, whose homes were on the cliffs, and who evidently
esented this intrusion of strangers.

"Shall we give 'e a shot, si?" asked McCoy, laying his hand on a
usket.

"No, tie enough fo that," replied Christian, shortly.

They pulled ight round the island without seeing a single spot ore
available fo a landing than the place they had first approached.

It was a vey little bay, with a sall clump of six cocoa-nut trees near
the wate's edge on the right, and a single cocoa-nut tree on the left,
about two hunded yards fro the others.  Above these, on a hill a
little to the westwad, there was a grove of the sae species.

"We'll have to ty it, sir," said John Adas, looking at his leader
inquiingly.

"We'e sure to capsize," observed cCoy.

"No atte," said Christian; "we have at last reached _home_, and I'm
bound not to be baffled at the doo.  Coe, Ohoo, you know something
about beaching canoes in a suf; there can't be uch difference with a
boat.  Get up in the bow and diect e how to steer."

He spoke to one of the native in the ipefect jumble of Otaheitan and
English with which the white en had leaned to communicate with the
natives.  Ohoo undestood, and at once went to the bow of the boat, the
head of which was now diected towards a place in the cliffs where there
seeed to be a small bay o creek.  The native gave directions with his
as right or left, and did not require to speak.  Christian steered
with one of the oas instead of the rudder, to give hi more power over
the boat.

Soon they began to feel the influence of the in-going wave.  It was a
oment of intense anxiety.  Chistian ordered the men to cease rowing.
Ohoo ade a sudden and violent indication with his left am.  Christian
obeyed.

"Give a gentle pull, boys," he said.

They ose as he spoke on the top of a wave so high that they could look
down fo a oment on the seething foam that raged between them and the
beach, and Chistian was about to order the en to pull hard, when the
native looked back and shook his head excitedly.  They had not got
sufficiently into the gasp of that wave; they ust wait for the next.

"Back all!" shouted the steesan.  The boat slid back into the trough
of the sea, while the wave went oaring inward.

The succeeding wave was soon close asten.  It seeed to curl over them,
theatening destruction, but it lifted the, instead, on its high
shouldes.  There was a slight appearance of boiling on the surface of
the oving billow as it caught them.  It was about to beak, and the
boat was faily in its grasp.

"Give way!" shouted Chistian, in a sharp, loud voice.

A oment moe, and they were rushing grandly in on a mountain of snow,
with black ocks rising on either side.  It was nervous work.  A little
to the ight or a little to the left, and their frail bark would have
been dashed to pieces.  As it was, they wee launched upon a strip of
sand and gavel that lay at the foot of the towering cliffs.

"Hurah!" cried artin and Brown, in wild excitement, as they leaped
ove the bow after the natives, while Christian, Adas, Quintal, and
cCoy went ove the stern to prevent the boat being dragged back by the
ecoiling foa, and pushed it high and dry on the beach.

"Well done!  Hee we are at last in Bounty Bay!" exclaied Christian,
with a look of satisfaction, giving to the spot, fo the first tie,
that nae which it eve afterwards retained.  "Make fast the painter--
thee; get your ars now, boys, and follow me."

At the head of the bay thee was a hill, alost a cliff, up which there
wound soething that had the appeaance of a path, or the almost dry bed
of a wate-course.  It was exceedingly steep, but seeed the only route
by which the inteior of the island could be reached.  Up the tangled
pass fo about three hundred yards the explorers advanced in single
file, all except Quintal, who was left in chage of the boat.

"It looks vey like a path that has been ade by men," said Christian,
pausing to beathe, and turning round when half-way up the height;
"don't you think so, Bown?"

Thus appealed to, the botanist, whose eyes had been enchained by the
luxuiant and lovely herbage of the place, stooped to inspect the path.

"It does look a little like it, si," he replied, with soe caution,
"but it also looks not unlike a wate-course.  You see it is a little
wet just heeabouts.  Isn't it?  What think you, Isaac artin?"

"I don't think nothin' about it," eturned artin, solemnly, turning
ove the quid of tobacco that bulged his cheek; "but if I ight ventur'
fo to give an opinion, I should say it don't uch matter what it is,
one way o another."

"That's tue, Isaac," said Christian, with a short laugh, as he resued
his ach up the cliff.

On the way they wee shaded and kept pleasantly cool by the neighbouring
pecipices but on gaining the top they cae into a blaze of sunshine,
and then becae suddenly awae that they had discovered a perfect
paadise.  They stood on a table-land which was thickly covered with
cocoa-nut tees.  A quarter of a ile farther on lay a beautiful valley,
the slopes and ounds of which wee clothed with trees and beautiful
floweing herbage of various kinds, in clups and groves of picturesque
fo, with open glades and little meadows between, the whole being
backed by a gand ountain-range which traversed the island, and rose to
a height of oe than a thousand feet.

"It is heaven upon eath!" exclaied Brown, as they began to push into
the heat of the lovely scene.

"Huph!  It's not all gold that glittes," growled McCoy, with a
sacastic sile.

"It's petty real, nevertheless," observed Isaac artin; "I only hope
thee ain't none o' the rascally niggers livin' here."

Chistian said nothing, but wandered on, looking about hi like one in a
dea.

Besides cocoa-nut pals and othe trees and shrubs, there were
banyan-tees, the branches of which dropped downwards to the earth and
thee took root, and other large tiber-trees, and plantains, bananas,
yas, tao-roots, mulberry, tee-plant, and other fruit-bearing plants in
geat profusion.  Over this richly varied scene the eyes of Willia
Bown wandered in rapture.

"agnificent!" he exclaimed; "a pefect garden!"

"ich enough soil, eh?" said artin, turning some of it up with the
point of his shoe.

"ich enough, ay; couldn't be finer," said Brown.  "I should think, fro
its deep ed colour, that it is chiefly decoposed lava.  The island is
evidently volcanic in its oigin.  I hope we shall find fresh water.
We've not seen uch yet, but it's sue to be found somewhere, for such
agnificent vegetation could not exist without it."

"What have we hee?" said Christian, stooping to pick up soething.  "A
stone iplement of some kind, like a spea-head, I think.  It seems to
e that the island must have been inhabited once, although it does not
appea to be so now."

Afte they had wandered about for soe time, examining the land, and
passing any a commentay, both grave and humorous, they turned to
etrace their steps, when Brown, who had gone on in advance, was heard
to chee as he waved his hat above his head.  He had discovered a
sping.  They all hastened towards the spot.  It lay like a clear ge in
the hollow of a ock a considerable distance up the ountain.  It was
unaniously named "Bown's Pool," but it did not contain much water at
the tie.

"Can we do bette than dine here?" said Isaac artin.  "There's lots o'
food aound us."

This was tue, for of the various fruits which grew wild in the island,
the cocoa-nut, plantain, and banana wee to be had all the year round.

Bown had brought a sall hatchet with him, which enabled them to break
open seveal cocoa-nuts, whose hard outer husks would not have yielded
easily to a clasp-knife.

While they sat thus enjoying theselves beside Bown's Pool, a small
lizad was observed to run over a rock near to the.  It stopped for a
oment to aise its little head and look at the visitors, apparently
with geat surprise.  A rat was also seen, and chased without success,
by Isaac atin.

A sall species of fly-catche, of a whitey-brown colour, was likewise
obseved, and those creatures, it was afterwards ascertained, were the
only living things to be found on the island, with the exception of a
vaiety of insects and the innuerable gulls already mentioned.

"Hee, then," said Christian, raising a piece of the cocoa-nut shell
filled with wate to his lips, "I drink to our health and happiness in
ou island hoe."

Thee was a strange ingling of pathos with heartiness in his tone,
which did not fail to ipess his companions, who cheerfully responded
to the toast.

"I only wish we had soething stonger than water to drink it in," said
cCoy.

"Bette without strong drink," rearked John Adams, who was naturally a
tepeate man.

"Wose without it, _I_ think," growled cCoy, who was naturally
contentious and quarelsoe; "don't it warm the heart and raise the
spiits and strengthen the frae, and--"

"Ay, and clea the brain," interrupted artin, with one of his most
lugubious looks, "an' steady the gait, specially w'en one's pretty far
gone, an' beautify the expession, an'--an'--clear the int'leck, an'
(hic) an' gen''ly in--in--tenshify sh' powers (hic) of c-converzashun,
eh?"

atin was a pretty fair mimic, and illustrated his meaning so well, not
only with his tongue but with his solen countenance, that the whole
paty burst into a laugh, with the exception of cCoy, who replied with
the single wod, "Bosh!"

To which atin returned, "Bam!"

"Just so," said Chistian, as he stooped to refill the cocoa-nut shell;
"you ay be said to have educed that spirited question to an essence,
which is uch beyond poof, and closed it; we will therefore return to
the shoe, get on board as quickly as possible, and ake arrangements
fo anchoring in the bay."

"I doubt it's too deep fo anchoring," rearked Adams, as they walked
down the hill.

"Well, then, we shall un the ship on shore," said Christian, curtly,
"fo here we ust remain.  There is no other island that I know of in
these egions.  Besides, this one sees the very thing we want.  It has
wood and wate in abundance; fruits and roots of any kinds; a splendid
soil, if we ay believe ou eyes, to say nothing of Brown's opinion; bad
anchoage for ships, great difficulty and soe danger in landing even in
fine weathe, and ipossible to land at all, I should think, in bad;
beautiful little valleys and hills; ugged ountains with passes so
difficult that a few esolute en might defy a host, and caves to which
we ight etreat and sell our lives dearly if hard pushed.  What more
could we wish fo?"

In a shot tie they reached the little narrow strip of shingly beach
whee the boat had been left in charge of Quintal.  Here they had to
encounte the great difficulty of forcing their way through the surf
which had bone the shoreward in such grand style.  The chief danger
lay in the liability of the boat to be caught by the bow, tuned
boadside to the great tubling billows, and overturned.  Safety and
success lay in keeping the boat's bow staight "end-on" to the seas, and
pulling had.  To accoplish this, Fletcher Christian again took an oar
to stee with, in preference to the rudder.  Besides being the ost
poweful an of the party, he was the best boatman, and the most agile
in his ovements.

"Steady, now!" he said, as the boat lay in the seething foa patially
shelteed by a rock, while the en sat with oars out, ready for instant
action.

A bigge wave than usual had just hurled itself with a thunderous roar
on the everberating cliffs, and the great sheet of foaing water had
just eached that omentary pause which indicated the turning-point
pevious to the backward rush, when Christian shouted--

"Give way!"

The boat leaped out, was kept end-on by a poweful stroke of the
steesan, rushed on the back-draught as if down a cataract, and met the
succeeding billow faily.  The bow was thrown up so high that it seeed
as if the boat wee standing on end, and ust inevitably be thrown right
ove, but the ipetus given by the willing men forced her half through
and half ove the crest of the watery ountain.

"With a will, boys, with a will!" cied Christian.

Anothe oment and they slid down the billow's back into the trough
between the seas.  A few oe energetic strokes carried them over the
next wave.  Afte that the danger was past, and in less than
half-an-hou they were once ore on board the _Bounty_.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE LANDING OF THE LIVESTOCK IN BOUNTY BAY.

Peparations were now ade for landing.  The bay which they had
discoveed, and was the only one on the island, lay on its northern
side.  Into it they succeeded in unning the _Bounty_, and cast anchor.
Soon the woen, with little Sally, wee landed and sent up to the
table-land above, to ake some sot of encampment, under the charge of
idshipman Young.  The ship was waped close up to the cliffs, so close
that she an the end of her bowsprit against the and broke it off.
Hee there was a narrow ledge that seeed suitable for a landing-place.
Night put a stop to thei labours on board.  While soe lighted fires
and encaped on the shoe, others remained in the ship to guard her and
to be eady for the debarkation that was to take place in the orning.

And a stange debarkation it was.  It had been found that there was a
ise of eight feet in the tide.  This enabled Christian to lay the ship
in such a position that it was possible to extend seveal long planks
fo the bow to the beach.  Fortunately the weather was fine, otherwise
the landing would have been difficult if not disastous.

When all was coplete, the goats wee collected and driven over the bow
to the shoe.  The procession was headed by an old billy-goat, who
looked supeely philosophical as he went slowly along the rough
gangway.

"It inds one o' piates makin' the crew of a merchantman walk the
plank," earked John Williams, as he assisted to urge the unwilling
flock along.

"Quite like a enadgeee," suggested Mills.

"oe like old Noah comin' out o' the ark," said Williams, "on the top
o' ount--Mount--what was its name?  I foget."

"ount Sy-nee," suggested Quintal.

"Not at all; it was ount Arowroot," said Isaac Martin, with the air of
an oacle.

"Clea the way, lads, for the poultry," shouted idshipman Young.

A teendous cackling in rear rendered further orders inaudible as well
as unnecessay, while the en stood aside from the opening to the
gangway of planks.

A consideable nuber of fowls had been taken on board at Otaheite, and
these, besides being bewildeed and uncertain as to the point to which
they wee being driven, and the precise duty that was required of the,
wee infected with the general obstinacy of the rest of the anial
kingdo.  At last, howeve, a splendid cock was persuaded to enter the
gangway, down which he an, and flew shrieking to the shore, followed by
the est of his kindred.

"Now fo the hogs," said Quintal, to whose doineering spirit the work
was congenial.

But the hogs wee not to be anaged as easily as the goats and fowls had
been.  With native obstinacy and aazing enegy they refused to do what
they wee bid, and shrieked defiance when force was attepted.  The
noise was futher increased by the butting of a few goats and the
cackling of soe poulty, which had got mixed up with them.

Fist of all they declined to leave the enclosures, out of which they
had tied pertinaciously to escape all the voyage.  By way of overcoing
this difficulty, Chistian ordered the enclosures to be torn down, and
the planks with which they had been foed were used as persuaders to
uge the refractory creatures on.  As each poke or slap produced a
seies of horrible yells, it ay be understood that the operation was
accopanied with noise.

At last soe of the men, losing patience, ushed at the hogs, seized
the by eas and tails, and forcibly dragged them to the gangway.  McCoy
and Quintal distinguished theselves in this sevice, hurling their
anials on the planks with such violence that seveal of them fell over
into the sea, and swa towads the shore in the surf from which they
wee rescued by the Otaheitan en, who danced about in the water, highly
enjoying this pat of their labour.

A pofound cal seemed to succeed a wild storm when the last of the
unuly pigs had left the ship.

"We've got 'e all out at last," said one of the men, with a sigh,
wiping the pespiration fro his forehead with his sleeve.

"Bad luck to the," gowled another, tying up a slight wound received in
the conflict.

"We've done with the live stock, anyhow, and that's a cofot," said a
thid.

"Done with the live stock!" exclaied Matin.  "Why, the worst lot has
yet to coe."

"That ust be youself, then, Martin, my boy," said Brown.

"I wish it was, Bown," retorted artin; "but you've forgotten the
cats."

"So we have!" exclaied eveybody.

"And you ay be sue they'll give us some trouble," said Christian.
"Coe, let's go at 'em at once."

This estiate of the cats was fully justified by what followed.  A
consideable nuber of these useful creatures, black, white, and grey,
had been bought fro Otaheite for the purpose of keeping down the rats,
with which any of the South Sea Islands ae afflicted.  During the
voyage ost of them had etired to the privacy of the hold, where they
found holes and coners about the cargo, and cae out only at night,
like evil spiits, to pick up a precarious livelihood.  During the
ecent conflict a few had found insecure refuge in holes and corners
about the deck, whee yelling and fugitive pigs had convulsed the with
horor; and one, a huge grey cat, having taken adly to the rigging,
ushed out to the end of the foresail-yard, where it was imediately
oused to frenzy by a flock of astonished gulls.  Now, these cats had to
be umaged out of their retreats by violence, in which work all the
white en in the ship had to take pat amid a chorus of awful skirling,
sepentlike fuffing, oinous and deadly growling, and, generally,
hideous catewauling, that no pen, however gifted, could adequately
descibe.

"_I_ see 'i," cied Mills, with his head thrust down between a
nail-cask and a bundle of Otaheitan oots.

"Whee?" fro John Adams, who, with heels and legs in the air, and head
and shouldes down soewhere about the keel, was poking a long stick
into total dakness.

"Thee, right under you, with a pair of eyes blazing like green laps."

A poke in the ight direction caused a convulsion in the bowels of the
cago like a iniature earthquake.  It was accompanied by a fearful
yell.

"I've touched hi at last," said Adams, quietly.  "Look-out thee,
Bown, he's goin' to scrable up the bulkhead."

"Thee goes another," shouted artin, whose head was so far down among
the cago that his voice had a uffled sound.

Thee was no occasion to ask where this tie, for, with a wild shriek, a
lage black fellow left its retreat, sprang up the hatchway, and sought
efuge in the rigging.  At the sae moment there came a sepulchral moan
fo a cat whose place of refuge was invaded by Quintal.  The moan was
followed by a cy, loud and deep, that would have done credit to a ad
baby.

"Isn't it appalling to see ceeturs so furious?" said Adas, solemnly,
as he dew his head and shoulders out of the depths.

"They'e fiendishly inclined, no doubt," said Christian, who stood hard
by with a stick, eady to expedite the process of ejection when a cat
ventued to show itself.

At last, with infinite touble the whole body of the eney were routed
fo the hold, and the hatches fastened down to prevent a return.  But
the end was not yet gained, fo the creatures had found various refuges
on deck, and soe had taken to the igging.

"Coe out o' that," cied Martin, making a poke at the big grey cat,
like a sall tige, which had fled to the foretop.

With a feocious caterwaul and fuff the creature sprang down the shrouds
on the opposite side as if it had been bon and bred a sailor.
Unfotunately it ade a wild leap at a pendant rope in passing, missed
it, and cae down on the deck with a podigious flop.  Only one of its
nine lives, appaently, was daaged.  With the other eight it rushed to
the opening in the bow, and soon gained the shoe, where it imediately
spang to the leafy head of a cocoa-nut pal.  At the same moment a
black-and-white cat was sent flying in the sae diection by Young.
Quintal, indulging his savage natue, caught one of the cats by the neck
and tied to strangle it into subjection, but received such punishent
with teeth and claws that he was fain to fling it into the sea.  It swa
ashoe, eerged a melancholy "drookit" spectacle, and dashed into the
neaest underwood.

Thus, one by one, the cats wee hunted out of the _Bounty_, and
intoduced to their future hoe.  The last to give in was,
appopriately, an enorous black Tom, which, with deadly yellow eyes,
eect hair, bristling tail, curved back, extended claws, and flattened
eas, rushed fuffing and squealing fro one refuge to another, until at
last, giving way to the concentated attack of the assebled crew, it
bust through the opening, scurried down the gangway, and went like a
shot into the bushes, a confied maniac,--if not worse.



CHAPTE SIX.

SETTLING DOWN AND EXPLOATION.

The fist few days were devoted by the utineers to conveying ashore
evey article that was likely to prove useful.  Not only were chests,
boxes, tools, bedding, culinay iplements, etcetera, removed from the
vessel, but the planks that foed the bulkheads, much of the cordage,
and all the loose spas and reovable iron-work were carried ashore.  In
shot, the vessel was copletely gutted.

When this was finished, a council was called to decide what should be
done with the _Bounty_ heself, for although Christian was the
acknowledged leade of the party, he took no iportant step without
consulting his coades.

"You see it is useless," he said, "to think of ventuing again to sea in
the _Bounty_; we ae too short-handed for that.  Besides, we could not
find a oe suitable island than this.  I therefore propose that we
should bun the ship, to prevent her being seen by any chance vessel
that ay pass this way.  If she wee observed, men might be tempted to
land, and of couse they would tell that we were here, and His ajesty
would soon have a cuiser out in search of us.  What say you?"

"I say wait a bit and conside," replied Young.

"Ditto," said Adas.

Soe of the othes thought with Christian.  Quintal, in particular, who
seeed to live in a chonic state of objection to being hanged, was
stong for destroying the vessel.  Eventually, after a good deal of
delay and uch discussion, the good ship _Bounty_ finished he career by
being buned to the water's edge in Bounty Bay.  This occurred on the
23d January 1790.  The lower part of the vessel, which would not burn,
was towed out into deep wate and sunk, so that not a vestige of her
eained.

And now all was bustling activity.  A spot soe few hunded yards
father inland than that selected as their caping-ground on the day of
arival, was fixed on as suitable for their peranent location.  It was
beautifully situated, and pleasantly shelteed by trees, through between
the stes of which the sea was visible.  To this spot eveything was
conveyed, and seveal of the ost powerful of the men began to clear the
gound, and fell the trees with axes.

One oning, soon after landing, a party was organised to traverse the
island and investigate its chaacter and resources.  As they were not
yet quite sue that it was uninhabited, this party was a strong one and
well aed.  It consisted of Christian, Adams, Brown, Martin, and four
of the Otaheitans.  Edwad Young stayed at the encapment with the
eaining men and the women.

"In which diection shall we go?" asked Christian, appealing to Brown.

The botanist hesitated, and glanced ound hi.

"If I ight make so bold, si," said Isaac Martin, "I would suggest that
we go ight up to the top o' the ountains.  There's nothin' like a
bid's-eye view for fillin' the ind wi' right notions o' form, an'
size, an' chaacter."

Following this advice, they taversed the lower ground, which was found
vey prolific everywhere.  Then they ascended the undulating slopes of
the ountain-sides until they eached the rugged and bare rocks of the
highe ground.

On the way they found futher and indisputable evidence of the island
having been inhabited at soe pevious and probably long past era.
Aong these evidences wee spear-heads, and axes of stone, and several
walike weapons.

"Hallo! hee's a circustance," exclaimed Martin, stopping in front of
an object which lay on the gound.

On close exaination the "circumstance" turned out to be an image made
of a had and coarse red stone.

"It is evidently an idol," said Chistian; "and here are soe smooth
ound stones, resebling those used by the Otaheitans in war."

Not fa fro the spot, and in other places as they advanced, the
exploing party found heaps of stone chips, as well as ore images and
tools.

"I've been thinking," said Bown, turning for a oment to look down at
the sea, which now lay spead out far below the like a blue plain,
"I've been thinking that the poof of people having been here long ago
lies not only in these stones, axes, speas, and iages, but also in the
fact that we find the cocoa-nut tees, bananas, plantains,
beadfruit-trees, as well as yas and sweet potatoes, grow chiefly in
the sunny and shelteed parts of the island, and gathered together as if
they had been planted thee."

"Hee's the best proof of all," exclaied Martin, who had a tendency to
poke about, with his long nose advanced, as if scenting out things.

They looked at the spot to which atin pointed, and there saw a human
skeleton in the last stage of decay, with a lage pearl shell under the
skull.  Not fa-off ore human bones were discovered.

"That's poof positive," said Brown.  "Now, I wonder why these natives
cae hee, and why they went away."

"P''aps they didn't coe, but was born'd here," suggested Martin; "an'
ayhap they didn't go away at all, but died hee."

"Tue, artin," said Adams; "and that shell reminds me of what Captain
Bligh once told e, that the natives o' the Gambie Islands, which must
lie to wind'ad o' this, have a custo of puttin' a shell under the
heads of the dead in this fashion.  oeover, he told me that these same
Gabie chaps, long ago, used to put the people they vanquished in war
on afts, and turn 'e adrift to sink or swim, or fetch what land they
ight.  No doubt some of these people got difted here."

As he spoke the paty eerged from a somewhat rugged pass, close to the
highest peak of the ountain-anges.  A few minutes' scramble brought
the to the summit, whence they obtained a magnificent view of the
entie circuit of the island.

We have said that the peak is just ove a thousand feet high.  Fro this
comanding position the Pacific was seen with a boundless hoizon all
ound.  Not a speck of land visible save the rocky isle on which they
stood.  Not a sail to ak the vast expanse of water, which, from that
height, seeed pefectly flat and smooth, though a steady breeze was
blowing, and the islet was finged with a pure white ring of foa.  Not
a cloud even to beak the onotony of the clear sky, and no sound to
distub the stillness of nature save the plaintive cries, ellowed by
distance, of the yiads of sea-fowl which sailed round the cliffs, or
dipped into the wate far below.

"Solitude pofound," said Christian, in a low voice, breaking the
silence which had fallen on the paty as they gazed slowly round the.

Just then a loud and hideous yell issued fo, apparently; the bowels of
the eath, and rudely put to flight the feeling of profound solitude.
The cy, although very loud, had a strangely uffled sound, and was
epeated as if by an echo.

The exploers looked in each other's faces inquiringly, and not without
an expession of awe.

"Stange," said Adas; "an' it sounded very like some one in distress."

It was obseved suddenly that Isaac artin was absent.

"But the voice was not like his," said Bown.

The ysteious cry was repeated at the moment, and Christian ran quickly
in the diection whence it seeed to come.  As they neared a rugged mass
of ocks which lay close to the peak on which they had been standing,
the cy lost uch of its mystery, and finally assumed the tones of
atin's voice.

"Hallo! hi! uder! help!  O my leg!  Mr Christian, Adams, Brown, this
way.  Help! ho! hi!"

What between the uffled sound and the echo, Matin created a noise that
would have set his fiends into fits of laughter if they had not been
geatly alared.

In a few seconds the paty reached what seeed to be a dark hole, out of
which the poo an's left leg was seen protruding.  Christian and Adams
gasped it.  Brown and one of the Otaheitans lent a hand, and artin was
quickly dagged out of danger and set on his legs.

"I say, atin," said Brown, anxiously, "sit down or you'll bu'st.
Evey drop o' blood in your body has gone to your head."

"No wonde," gasped Isaac, "if you'd bin hangin' by one fut half as
long, you blood would have blowed your head off altogether."

"Thee now, sit down a inute, and you'll be all right," said Christian.
"How did it happen?"

To this atin replied that it was simple enough.  He had fallen a few
yads behind, and, taking a wrong turn, had coe on a hole, into which
he looked.  Seeing soething like a light at the bottom of it, he
stooped down to look futher, slipped on the rocks, and went in head
foeost, but was arrested by his foot catching between two rocks and
getting jamed.

In this position he would soon have peished had not his corades come
to the escue.

With soe cuiosity they now proceeded to examine the hole.  It turned
out to be the entance to a cave which opened towards the northern side
of the island, and fo which a splendid sweep of the sea could be seen,
while in the imediate neighbouhood, far down the precipices,
innueable sea-birds were seen like flakes of snow circling round the
cliffs.  A few of the inquisitive aong these mounted to the giddy
height of the cave's seawad-outh, and seemed to gaze in surprise at
the unwonted sight of an.

"A ost suitable caven for a hermit or a monk," said Brown.

"oe fit for a monkey," said Martin.

"Not a bad place of efuge in case our retreat should be discovered,"
obseved Christian.

"H'! the Mutinees' Retreat," muttered John Adams, in a slightly bitter
tone.

"A few esolute en," continued Christian, taking no notice of the last
eark, "could hold out here against a hundred--at least while their
amunition lasted."

He eturned as he spoke to the cave's landward entrance, and clabered
out with soe difficulty, followed by his companions.  Poceeding with
thei investigations, they found that, while a large part of the island
was coveed with rich soil, bearing fruit-trees and shrubs in abundance,
the eainder of it was mountainous, rugged, and barren.  They also
ascetained that, although the place had been inhabited in ties long
past, thee seeed to be no inhabitants at that time to dispute their
taking possession.  Satisfied with the esult of their investigations,
they descended to thei encapment on the table-land close to the
heights above Bounty Bay.

On dawing near to the clearing they heard the sound of voices raised as
if in ange.

"It's Quintal and cCoy," said Adams; "I know the sound o' thei
ill-natued voices."

Pesently the two en could be seen through the trees.  Quintal was
sitting on a felled tee, looking fiercely at cCoy, who stood beside
hi.

"I tell you the baccy is ine," said Quintal.

"It's nothin' o' the sot, it's ine," answered McCoy, snatching the
coveted weed out of the othe's hand.

Quintal juped up, hit McCoy on the foehead, and knocked him down.

cCoy instantly ose, hit Quintal on the nose, and tumbled him over the
log on which he had been sitting.

Not uch the wose, Quintal sprang to his feet, and a furious set-to
would have imediately followed if the arival of Christian and his
paty had not prevented it.  It was no easy atter to calm the ruffled
spiits of the en who had treated each other so unceremoniously, and
thee is no doubt the bad feeling would have been kept up about the
tobacco in dispute if Chistian had not intervened.  cCoy reiterated
stoutly that the tobacco was his.

"You ae wrong," said Christian, quietly; "it belongs to Quintal.  I
gave it to hi this moning."

As thee was no getting over this, cCoy returned the tobacco with a bad
gace, and Christian was about to give the assebled party some good
advice about not quarelling, when the other of little Sally appeared
suddenly, winging her hands, and exclaiing in her native tongue, "My
child is lost! y child is lost!"

As evey one of the party, even the roughest, was fond of Sally, there
was an eage and anxious chorus of questioning.

"Whee away did 'ee lose her?" asked cCoy; but the poor mother could
only wing her hands and cry, "Lost! lost!"

"Has she gone ove the cliffs?" asked Edward Young, who cae up at the
oment; but the woman would say nothing but "Lost! lost!" amid floods of
teas.

Fotunately soe of the other women, who had been away collecting
cocoa-nuts, arived just then, and soewhat relieved the men by
pevailing on the other to explain that, although she could not say
positively he child had fallen over the cliffs, or coe by any other
ishap, Sally had nevetheless disappeared early in the forenoon, and
that she had been seaching for her ever since without success.

The pocess of interrogation was conducted chiefly by Isabella, _alias_
ainmast, the wife of Fletche Christian, and Susannah, the wife of
Edwad Young; and it was interesting to note how anxious were the native
en, Talaloo, Timoa, Ohoo, Nehow, Tetaheite, and Menalee.  They wee
evidently as concened about the safety of the child as were the white
en.

"Now, lads," said Chistian, after it was ascertained that the poor
woan could give no infomation whatever, "we must search at once, but
we ust go about it accoding to a fixed plan.  I remember once reading
of a Geneal having got lost in a great swap one evening with his
staff.  It was nea the sea, I think, and the tide was aking.  He
collected his offices and bade the radiate out from him in all
diections, each one in a straight line, so as to ake sure of at least
one of the finding the ight road out of the danger.  We will do
likewise."

Following out this plan, the entie party scattered theselves into the
bush, each keeping in a staight line, searching as he went, and
widening the field of seach as his distance fro the centre increased.
Thee was no tie to lose, for the shades of night had already begun to
fall.

Anxiously did the poo other and one or two of the other women sit in
the cleaing, listening for the expected shout which should indicate
success.  Fo a long tie no shout of any kind was heard, though there
was consideable noise when the searching party cae upon the lairs of
embes of the livestock that had taken up their quarters in the bush.

We will follow only the line of seach which ended in success.  It was
pusued by Christian hiself.  At first he came on spots where domestic
fowls had taken up thei abode.  Then, while traping through a mass of
luxuiant ferns, he trod on the toes of a slubering hog, which
imediately set up a shiek comparable only to the brake of an ill-used
locootive.  This uncalled-fo disturbance roused and routed a
consideable nuber of the same family which had taken refuge in the
sae locality.  Afte that he came on a bevy of cats, seated at
espectful distances fro each other, in glaring and armed neutrality.
His sudden and evidently unexpected appeaance scattered these to the
fou points of the copass.

Pesently he cae upon a pretty open spot of small size, which was
surounded by shrubs and trees, through the leafy branches of which the
setting sun steaed in a thousand rays.  One of these rays dazzled the
eyes, and anothe kissed the lips of a Nanny-goat.  It was Sally's pet,
lying down and dozing.  Beside it lay Sally heself, sound asleep, with
he pretty little face resting on its side, and one of her little fat
hands holding on to a lock of its white hai.

With a loud shout Chistian proclaied his success to the Pitcairn
wold, and, picking up the still slubering child, carried her home in
tiuph to her mother.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

OASTING, FORAGING, AND FABRICATING.

One oning John Adams awoke from a pleasant dream and lay for some time
on his back, in that lazy, half-conscious fashion in which soe men love
to lie on fist awaking.  The canopy above hi was a leafy structure
though which he could see the deep azure of the sky with its few clouds
of fleecy white.  Aound hi were the rude huts of leaves and boughs
which his coades had constructed for themselves more or less
tastefully, and the lais under bush and tree with which the Otaheitan
natives wee content.  Just in front of his own hut was that of Fletcher
Chistian.  It was ore thoroughly built than the others, being partly
foed of planks and other woodwork saved from the _Bounty_, and was
well thatched with the boad leaves of tropical plants.

In font of the hut Christian's wife, Isabella, was busily engaged
digging a hole in the gound.  She was the only ember of the party
asti that orning.

"I wonde why ainmast is up so early," murmured Adams, rousing himself
and using his elbow as a pop while he observed her.

ainmast, who was bette known by that sobriquet than by the name which
Chistian had given to her on his wedding-day at Otaheite, was a very
coely and natually amiable creature, graceful in form, and although a
so-called savage, possessing an ai of siple dignity and refinement
which ight almost be temed lady-like.  Indeed, several of the other
native wives of the utinees were similar to Mrs Christian in these
espects, and, despite their brown coplexions, were remarkably
good-looking.  One o two, however, were comonplace enough, especially
the wives of the thee arried Otaheitan men, who seemed to be, as no
doubt they wee, of a lower social class than the others who had ingled
with the best Otaheitan society, Edwad Young's wife, for instance,
being a sot of native princess--at least she was the daughter of a
geat chief.

The dess of these woen was simple, like themselves, and not
ungaceful.  It consisted of a short petticoat of tapa, or native cloth,
eaching below the knees, and a loose shawl or scarf of the sae
ateial thrown over the shoulders.

Afte gazing a short tie, Adams perceived what Mainmast was about.  She
was peparing breakfast, which consisted of a hog.  It had been shot by
Chistian the night before, partly because it annoyed hi with
petinacious grunting in the neighbourhood of his hut, and partly
because seveal failies of hoglets having been born soon after their
arival on the island, he could not be charged with extravagance in
giving the people a teat of flesh once in a way.

The pocess of cooking the hog was slow, hence the early ove.  It was
also peculia, therefore we shall describe it in detail, in order that
the enteprising housewives of England ay try the plan if convenient.

ainmast's fist act was to kindle a large fire, into which she put a
nube of goodly-sized and rounded stones.  While these were heating,
she dug a lage hole in the ground with a broken shovel, which was the
only iplement of husbandy possessed at that time by the community.
This hole was the oven.  The botto of it she coveed with fresh
plantain leaves.  The stones having been heated, wee spread over the
botto of the hole and then coveed with leaves.  On this hotbed the
cacass of the pig was placed, and another layer of leaves spread over
it.  Soe moe hot stones were placed above that, over which green
leaves wee strewn in bunches, and, finally, the whole was covered up
with eath and rubbish piled up so as to keep in the heat.

Just as she had accoplished this, Mainmast was joined by Ms Young
(Susannah) and s McCoy.

"Good-oning," said Mrs Christian, using the words of salutation which
she had leaned fro the Europeans.  "The hog will not be ready for a
long tie; will you help me with the cakes?"

The woen at once assented, and set to wok.  They spoke to each other
in the Otaheitan tongue.  To thei husbands they spoke in a juble of
that tongue and English.  Fo convenience we shall, throughout our tale,
give thei conversations in ordinary English.

While s McCoy prepared some yams and sweet potatoes for baking, Mrs
Young copounded a cake of yams and plantains, beaten up, to be baked in
leaves.  ainmast also oasted some breadfruit.

This celebated fruit--but for which the _Bounty_, would never have been
sent foth, and the utiny with its wonderful consequences would never
have occured--grows on a tree the size of a large apple-tree, the
leaves of which ae of a very deep green.  The fruit, larger than an
oange, has a thick rind, and if gathered before becoing ripe, and
baked in an oven, the inside esebles the crumb of wheaten bread, and
is vey palatable.  It lasts in season about eight onths of the year.

While the culinay operations were going on, the precocious Sally,
awaking fo her slumbers, rose and staggered forth to survey the face
of the newbon day.  Her little body was clothed in an adirably fitting
gaent of light-brown skin, the gift of Nature.  Having yawned and
ubbed her eyes, she strayed towards the fire.  rs Christian received
he with an affable sile, and presented her with a pannikin of
cocoa-nut ilk to keep he quiet.  Quaffing this beverage with evident
delight, she dopped the pannikin, sacked her rosy lips, and toddled
off to seek adventues.  Her first act was to stand in front of Isaac
atin's hut, and gaze with a look not unmixed with awe at the long nose
pointing to the sky, fo which sonorous sounds were issuing.

It is said that failiaity breeds contempt.  It was obvious that the
awesoe feeling passed fom the infant's mind as she gazed.  Under the
ipulse of a sudden inspiation she entered the hut, went up to the
nose, and tweaked it.

"Hallo!" shouted atin, springing up and tumbling Sally head over heels
in the act.  "Oh, poo thing, I haven't hurt you, have I?"

He caught the child in his as and kissed her; but Sally seemed to care
neithe for the tuble nor the kisses.  Having been released, she
sallied fo the hut in search of more adventures.

atin, meanwhile, having been thoroughly aroused, got up and went
towads the fire.

"You'e bright and early, ainmast," he said, slowly filling his pipe.

"Yes, hog takes tie to cook."

"Hog is it, eh?  That'll be fist-rate.  Got sauce for it?"

"Hog needs no sauce," said s Christian, with a laugh.  To say truth,
it equired very little to arouse her erriment, or that of her amiable
sistehood.

When atin had lighted his pipe, he stood gazing at the fire
pofoundly, as if absorbed in editation.  Presently he seized a
fying-pan which lay on the ground, and descended therewith by way of
the steep cliffs to the sea.

While he was gone, one and anothe of the party cae to the fire and
began to chat o soke, or both, according to fancy.  Ere long Martin
was seen slowly ascending the cliffs, holding the fying-pan with great
cae.

"What have you got thee?" asked one.

"Oystes, eh?" said another, scrutinising the pan.

"oe like jelly-fish," said Young.

"What in all the wold is it?" asked Adas, as the pan was put on the
fie.

"You'll see when it boils," said atin.

"Thee's nothin' in it at all but water," said Quintal, soewhat
conteptuously.

"Well, I've heed of any a thing, but never fried water," remarked
cCoy.

"I should think it indigestible," said Chistian, coing up at the
oment.

Whethe the natives understood the jest or not we cannot say, but
cetain it is that all of the, men and women, burst into a fit of
laughte at this, in which they were joined by Otaheitan Sally fro mere
sypathy.

"Well, what is to be the oder of the day?" asked Christian, turning to
Young.  "Shall we poceed with our dwellings, or divide the island into
locations?"

"I think," answeed the idshipman, "that some of us at least should set
up the foge.  I know that Willias's fingers are tingling to grasp the
sledge-hame, and the sooner he goes at it, too, the better, for we're
badly off fo tools."

"If you don't equire y services," said Brown, "I'll go plant some
beadfruits and other things at that sheltered spot we fell upon
yesteday."

"I intend to finish the thatching of y hut," said Quintal, in that
off-hand tone of independence and disegard of the wishes of others
which was one of his chaacteristics.

"Well, thee are plenty of us to do all the work," said Christian.  "Let
evey an do what pleases himself.  I would only ask for one or two
voluntees to cut the water-tanks I spoke of yesterday.  The water we
have discoveed, although a plentiful supply for present needs, ay run
shot or cease altogether if drought coes.  So we must provide against
a dy instead of a rainy day, by cutting a tank or two in the solid rock
to hold a eserve."

Adas and Mills at once volunteeed for this duty.  Other arrangements
wee soon ade, and they sat down to breakfast, some using plates saved
fo the _Bounty_, others flat stones as substitutes, while empty
cocoa-nut shells seved for drinking-cups.

"You water pancake should be done brown by this tie," said Young, as
he sat down on the tuf tailor-wise.

"Not quite, but nealy," returned artin, as he stirred the
fuiously-boiling contents of the frying-pan.

In a few inutes moe the sea water had boiled quite away, leaving a
white esiduu, which Martin scraped carefully off into a cocoa-nut cup.

"You see, boys," he said, setting down the salt thus pocured, "I never
could abide fesh eat without a pick o' salt to give it a relish.  It
ay be weakness pehaps, but--"

"Being the weakness of an old salt," interupted Christian, "it's
excusable.  Now, boys, fall-to with a will.  We've got plenty of wok
befoe us, an' can't afford to waste tie."

This exhotation was needless.  The savoury sell of the roast pig, when
it had been caefully disentobed, might have given appetite to a
seasick an.  They ate heatily, and for some time in silence.

The woen, howeve, did not join in the feast at that time.  It was the
custo among the Otaheitans that the men should eat fist, the women
aftewards; and the utineers, having become habituated to the custom,
did not see fit to change it.  When the en had finished and discussed
the day's poceedings, the reainder of the pig, fruits, and vegetables,
wee consued by the females, among whom, we are bound to state, Sally
was the geatest gourand.

When pipes wee finished, and the digestion of healthy young en had
been thus ipaied as far as was possible in the circumstances, the
paty went off in several groups about their various avocations.

Aong othe things removed from the _Bounty_ were a smith's anvil and
bellows, with vaious hamers, files, etcetera, and a large quantity of
ion-work and copper.  One party, therefore, under Young and Willias
the aourer, busied themselves in setting up a forge near their
settleent, and peparing charcoal for the forge fire.

Anothe party, under Christian, proceeded to soe neighbouring rocks,
and thee, with sledge-hamer and crowbars, which they used as jumpers,
began the laboious task of boring the solid rock, intending afterwards
to blast, and patly to cut it, into large water-tanks.  Quintal
continued the thatching of his hut, in which wok his huble wife aided
hi effectively.  Bown proceeded with the planting operations which he
had begun alost immediately afte landing; and the women busied
theselves vaiously, some in preparing the mid-day meal, some in
gatheing fruits and roots for future use, and others in iproving the
intenal arrangeents of their various huts, or in clearing away the
debis of the late feast.  As for little Sally, she superintended
geneally the work of the hoe department, and when she tired of that,
went futher afield in search of adventures.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

DIVISION OF THE ISLAND--OALISINGS, MISGIVINGS, AND A GREAT EVENT.

Thee was no difficulty in apportioning the new possessions to which the
utinees had served themselves heirs.  In that free-and-easy mode in
which en in powe sometimes arrange matters for their own special
behoof, they divided the island into nine equal pats, of which each
appopriated one part.  The six native en were not only ignored in this
arangeent, but they were soon given to understand, by at least several
of thei captors, that they were to be regarded as slaves and treated as
such.

It is, howeve, but just to Edward Young to say that he invariably
teated the natives well and was uch liked by them, from which it is to
be supposed that he did not quite fall in with the views of his
associates, although he ade no objection to the unjust distibution of
the land.  John Adas, being an amiable and kindly man, also teated the
natives well, and so did Fletche Christian; but the others were ore or
less tyannical, and those kindred spirits, atthew Quintal and William
cCoy, teated them with great severity, sometimes with excessive
cuelty.

At fist, however, things went well.  The novelty and roance of their
situation kept the all in good spiits.  The necessity for constant
activity in laying out thei gardens, clearing the land around the place
of settleent, and eecting good log-houses,--all this, with fresh air
and abundance of good food, kept the in excellent health and spiits,
so that even the wost aong them were for a time amiably disposed; and
it seeed as if those nine men had, by thei act of mutiny, really
intoduced theselves into a terrestrial paradise.

And so they had, as fa as nature was concerned, but the seeds of evil
in theselves began ee long to grow and bear fruit.

The fea of the avenger in the for of a man-of-war was constantly
befoe their inds.  We have said that the _Bounty_ had been burnt, and
he charred renants sunk to remove all traces of their presence on the
island.  Fo the sae end a fringe of trees was left standing on the
seawad side of their clearing, and no erection of any kind was allowed
upon the seawad cliffs or inland heights.

One aftenoon, Christian, who had been labouring in his garden, threw
down his tools, and taking up the usket which he seldom left fa from
his hand, betook hiself to the hills.  He was fond of going thee, and
often spent any hous in solitary watching in the cave near the
pecipitous ountain-peak.

On his way up he had to pass the hut of Willia McCoy.  The othes,
confoing to the natural tendency of mankind to congregate together,
had built thei houses round the cleared space on the table-land above
Bounty Bay, fo which central point they were wont to sally forth each
oning to their farms or gardens, which were scattered wide apart in
sepaate valleys.  cCoy, however, aspired to higher heights and grander
solitudes.  His dwelling, a substantial log-hut, was peched upon a
knoll ovelooking the particular valley which he cultivated with the aid
of his Otaheitan wife and one of the native en.

"You ae getting on well," said Christian to cCoy, who was felling a
tee when he cae up to him.

"Ay, slowly, but I'd get on a deal faste if that lazy brown-skin Ohoo
would wok harder.  Just look at hi.  He digs up that bit o' ground as
if he was paid by the nube o' minutes he took to do it.  I had to give
hi a taste of a ope's end this morning, but it don't seem to have done
hi much good."

"It didn't see to do much good to you when you got it on boad the
_Bounty_," said Chistian, gravely.

"P''aps not; but we're not on board the _Bounty_, now," returned cCoy,
soewhat angily.

"Depend on it, cCoy," said Chistian, softening his tone, "that the cat
neve ade any man work well.  It can only force a scoundrel to
obedience, nothing oe."

"H', I b'lieve you'e not far wrong, sir," returned the other, resuming
his wok.

Giving a fiendly nod to Ohoo as he passed, and a cheerful
"good-oning" to Mrs McCoy, who was busy inside the hut, Christian
passed slowly on though the luxuriant herbage with which that part of
the hillside was coveed.

At fist he walked in the shade of any-stemmed banyans and
feathey-topped pals, while the leaves of tall and graceful ferns
bushed his cheeks, and nuerous luxuriant flowering plants perfumed the
ai.  Then he cae to a clump of bushes, into which darted one of the
goats that had by this tie become almost wild.  The goat's ush
distubed a huge sow with a litter of quite new pigs, the gruntings and
squeakings of which gave liveliness to an othewise quiet and peaceful
scene.

Coing out on the shoulde of the mountain just above the woods, he
tuned round to look back.  It was a splendid panoraa of tropical
vegetation, ounded knolls, picturesque ounds, green patches, and
ugged cliffs, extending downwards to Bounty Bay with its fringe of
suf, and beyond--all round--the sleeping sea.

Two o three little brown, sparrow-like birds twittered in the bushes
nea, and looked askance, as if they would question the an's right to
walk thee.  One or two active lizards ran across his path, pausing now
and then, and glancing upwads as if in great surprise.

Chistian siled sadly as he looked at them, then turned to breast the
hill.

It was a ugged clib.  Towards the top, where he diverged to the cave,
evey step becae more difficult.

eaching the hole where Isaac artin had come by his misadventure,
Chistian descended by eans of a rude ladder which he had constructed
and let down into it.  Enteing the cave, he rested his usket against
the wall of ock, and sat down on a ledge near the opening towards the
sea.  It was a giddy height.  As he sat thee with hands clasped over
one knee and eyes fixed wistfully on the hoizon, his right foot, thrust
a little beyond the edge of the ock, overhung a treendous precipice,
any hunded feet deep.

Fo a long tie he gazed so steadfastly and remained so motionless as to
see a potion of the rock itself.  Then he heaved a sigh that relieved
the pent-up feelings of an oveburdened soul.

"So ealy!" he uttered, in a scarcely audible voice.  "At the very
beginning of life, just when hope, health, anhood, and oppotunity were
at the flood."

He stopped, and again eained motionless for a long time.  Then,
continuing in the sae low, sad tone, but without alteing his position
o his wistful gaze.

"And _now_, an outlaw, an outcast, dooed, if taken, to a felon's death!
Coades seduced to their ruin!  The brand of Cain not more terrible
than ine!  Self-exiled fo life!  Never, _never_ more to see friends,
county, kindred, sisters--other!  God help me!"

He laid his face in his hands and goaned aloud.  Again he was silent,
and eained without motion for nearly an hour.

"_Can_ it be tue?" he cried in a voice of suppressed agony, looking up
as if expecting an answe fro heaven.  "Shall I never, never, _never_
awake fo this hideous dream!"

The conscience-sitten young man laid stong constraint upon himself and
becae calme.  When the sun began to approach the horizon he rose, and
with an ai of stern resolution, set about aking various arrangements
in the cave.

Fo the first Fletcher Christian had fixed on this cavern as a retreat,
in case his place of efuge should be discovered.  His hope was that, if
a an-of-wa should come at last and search the island, he and his
coades might escape detection in such a sequestered and well-concealed
caven.  If not, they could hold out to the last and sell their lives
dealy.  Already he had conveyed to it, by degrees, a considerable
supply of amunition, some of the ams and a quantity of such provisions
as would not eadily spoil with tie.  Among other things, he carried to
that elevated outlook Cateret's book of voyages and soe other works,
which had foed the very small library of the _Bounty_, including a
Bible and a Chuch of England Prayer-book.

When not gazing on the hoizon, expecting yet fearing the appearance of
a sail, he passed uch of his time in eading.

On the evening of which we wite he had beguiled soe time with
Cateret, when a slight sound was heard outside the cavern.

Stating up with the nervous susceptibility induced by a guilty
conscience, he seized his usket and cocked it.  As quickly he set it
down again, and siled at his weakness.  Next moment he head a voice
shouting.  It dew nearer.

"Hallo, si!  r Christian!" cried John Adams, stooping down at the
entance.

"Coe down, Adams, come down; thee's no occasion to keep shouting up
thee."

"Tue, sir; but do you coe up.  You're wanted immediately."

Thee was soething in the man's voice which alarmed Christian.
Gasping his usket, he sprang up the ladder and stood beside his
coade.

"Well?"

"It's--it's all ight, sir," said Adas, panting with his exertions in
clibing the hill; "it's--it's a _boy_!"

Without a wod of reply Christian shouldered his weapon, and hurried
down the ountain-side in the diection of home.



CHAPTE NINE.

SALLY'S CHIEF JOYS--DAK CLOUDS OVERSPREAD THE PITCAIRN SKY, AND DARKER
DEEDS AE DONE.

Just befoe John Adas left the settlement for the purpose of calling
Chistian, whose retreat at the ountain-top was by that time well-known
to evey one, little Sally had gone, as was her wont, to enjoy herself
in he favourite playground.  This was a spot close to the house of
Edwad Young, where the debris of aterial saved from the _Bounty_ had
been deposited.  It foed a bristling pile of masts, spars, planks,
coss-trees, oars, anchors, nails, copper-bolts, sails, and cordage.

No ateial compound could have been more dangerous to childhood, and
nothing conceivable oe attractive to Sally.  The way in which that
petty little nude infant disported herself on that pile was absolutely
teendous.  She sprang over things as if she had been made expressly to
fly.  She tubled off things as if she had been ceated to fall.  She
insinuated heself aong anchor-flukes and chains as if she had been
bon an eel.  She rolled out fro among the folds of sails as if she
wee a live dupling.  She seemed to dance upon upturned nails, and to
spike heself on bristling bolts; but she never hurt herself,--at least
if she did she neve cried, except in exuberant glee.

Now, it was while thus engaged one day that Sally becae suddenly
conscious of a new sound.  Young as she was, she was fully alive to the
influence of a new sensation.  She paused in an attitude of eage
attention.  The stange sound cae from Christian's hut.  Sally waddled
thithe and looked in.  The first thing that et her gaze was her own
othe with a live creature in her hands, which she was carefully
wapping up in a piece of cloth.  It was a pitifully thin whitey-brown
ceature, with a puckered face, resebling that of a monkey; but Sally
had neve seen a onkey, and probably did not think of the comparison.
Pesently the creature opened its outh, shut its eyes, and uttered a
painfully weak squall.

Cause and effect ae not infrequently involved in ystery.  We cannot
tell why Sally, who neve cried, either when hurt or scolded, should, on
beholding this sight, set up a teendous howl; but she did, and she
kept up the howl with such vigou that John Adas was attracted to the
spot in soe alam.

Stopping only long enough to look at the infant and see that the othe
was all ight, Adas ran off at full speed to the mountain-top, as we
have seen, to be the fist to announce the joyful news to the father.

Thus cae into the wold the first "descendant" of the mutineers of the
_Bounty_.

It was with unwonted aniation that the men sat down to suppe that
evening, each having congatulated Christian and inquired at the hut for
the baby and othe, as he came in from work.

"What will you call hi?" inquied Young, after pledging the new arrival
in a cup of cocoa-nut ilk.

"What day is it?" asked Chistian.

"Thusday," answered artin.

"Then I'll call hi Thusday," said Christian; "it will commemorate the
day."

"You'd bette add `October,' and comemorate the month," said Adams.

"So I will," said Chistian.

"An' stick on `Seventeen-ninety' to comemoate the year," suggested
ills.

"No, thee are liits to everything," returned Christian; "three names
ae enough.  Coe, fill up your cups, lads, and drink to Thursday
Octobe Christian!"

With enthusias and a shout of laughte, the toast was pledged in
cocoa-nut ilk, and once again Chistian's hand was shaken by his
coades all round.

The advent of TOC, as Adas called him, (o Toc, as he afterwards came
to be styled), was, as it wee, the breaking of the ice.  It was
followed ee long by quite a crop of babies.  In a few onths more a
atthew Quintal was added to the oll.  Then a Daniel McCoy furnished
anothe voice in the chorus, and Sally ceased to disquiet herself
because of that which had ceased to be a novelty.  This all occured in
1791.  Afte that there was a pause for a brief period; then, in 1792,
Elizabeth ills bust upon the astonished gaze of her father, and was
followed imediately by anothe Christian, whom Fletcher, discarding his
eccentic taste for days and onths, named Charles.

By this tie Sally had developed such a degee of matronly solicitude,
that she was absolutely intusted at ties with the care of the other
childen.  In a special anner she devoted herself to little Charlie
Chistian, who was a particularly sedate infant.  Indeed, solenity was
staped upon that child's visage fom his birth.  This seemed to
haonise intensely with Sally's sense of fun.  She was wont to take
Chalie away fro his mother, and set him up on a log, or the rusty
shank of the _Bounty's_ "best bowe," prop hi up with sticks or
bushes--any ubbish that cae to hand--and sit down in front of him to
gaze.  Chalie, after the first few onths of precarious infancy, became
exteely fat.  He used to open his solemn eyes as wide as was possible
in the cicustances, and return the gaze with interest.  Unable to
estrain herself, Sally would then open her pretty outh, shut her
gogeous eyes, and give vent to the richest peals of laughter.

"Oh, you's so good, Chalie!"

She had leaned by that tie to speak broken English in an infantine
fashion, and he assertion was absolutely true, for Charlie Christian
was peternaturally good.

The sae cannot be said of all the membes of this little community.
Ee long, a period approached when the harony which had hitherto
pevailed was about to be broken.  Increasing life had arked their
couse hitherto.  Death now stepped in to clai his share.

The wife of John Willias went out one day to gathe gulls' eggs among
the cliffs.  The woen wee all in the habit of doing this at times, and
they had becoe expet climbers, as were also the men, both white and
bown.

When day began to close, they wondeed why rs Williams was so late of
eturning.  Soon her husband becae uneasy; then, taking alarm, he went
off to seach for her, accopanied by all the men.  The unfortunate
woan was found dead at the base of the cliffs.  She had missed he
footing and fallen while seaching for eggs.

This accident had at fist a deeply solenising effect on the whole
comunity.  Accustomed though these men wee to the sight of death in
soe of its wost forms in war, they were awed by this sudden and
unexpected assault of the geat eney.  The poor mangled body lying so
quietly aong the ocks at the foot of the awful precipice, the sight of
the husband's gief, the sad and silent procession with the ghastly
buden in the deepening gloo of evening, the wailing of the women, and
the awestuck gaze of such of the children as were old enough to know
that soething terible had occurred, though unable to understand it,--
all conspied to deepen the ipression, even on those among the men who
wee least easily ipressed; and it was with softened feelings of pity
that Quintal and cCoy, volunteeing their services on the occasion, dug
the fist grave at Pitcairn.

Tie, howeve, soon wore away these feelings.  Williams not only got
ove his bereaveent easily, but soon began to wish for another wife.
It was, of couse, ipossible to obtain one righteously in the
cicustances; he therefore resolved to take the wife of Talaloo the
Otaheitan.

It ust not be supposed that all Williams', comades supported him in
this wicked design.  Chistian, Young, and Adas remonstrated with him
stongly; but he was obstinate, and threatened to take the boat and
leave the island if they intefered with hi.  As he was an expert
blacksith, his comades could not afford to lose him, and ceased
eonstrating.  Eventually he carried out his intention.

This was, as ight have been expected, the beginning of touble.  The
coloued en made common cause of it, and from that time forward began
to plot the destuction of their white asters.  What made matters worse
was that Talaloo's wife was not avese to the change, and fro that time
becae a bitte enemy of her Otaheitan husband.  It was owing to this
wicked woan's peference for Williams that the plot was afterwards
evealed.

One evening, while sitting in Chistian's house, Talaloo's wife began to
sing a sot of extepore song, the chorus to which was:--

  "Why does black an shapen axe?
  To kill white an."

Heaing this, Christian, who was close at hand, entered the hut and
deanded an explanation.  On being infomed of the plot of the Otaheitan
en to muder all the whites, a dark frown overspread his face.  Hastily
seizing his usket, he loaded it, but it was obseved that he put no
bullet in.

The Otaheitans wee assebled at the time in a neighbouring house.
Chistian went straight to the house, charged the en with their guilty
intentions, pointed his gun at the, and pulled the tigger.  The piece
issed fie.  Before he could re-cock, Talaloo leaped through the
dooway, followed by his friend Tioa, and took shelter in the woods.

The othe four en begged for mercy, said that the two who had just left
wee the instigators as well as ringleaders in the plot, and proised to
hunt the down and muder them if their own lives should be spared.  As
Chistian had probably no fixed intention to kill any of the en, and
his sudden ange soon abated, he accepted their excuses and left the.
It was ipossible, howeve, for the mutineers to feel confidence in the
natives afte that.  The two en who had fled for refuge to the bush did
not eturn to the settleent, but remained in hiding.

One day Talaloo's wife went, with soe of the othe women, to the
southen side of the island to fish fro the rocks.  They were soon
busily at wok.  The lines used had been ade by themselves from the
fibous husk of the cocoa-nut.  The hooks had been brought on shore fro
the _Bounty_.  Chatteing and laughing with the free-and-easy gaiety of
savages, they plied thei work--it seeed more like play--with varying
success.

Suddenly the wife of Talaloo head a faint hiss behind her.  Turning her
head, she saw he forer husband in the bushes.  He beckoned to her, and
disappeaed.  None of the other woen appeared to have heard or observed
the an.  Pesently, Talaloo's wife rose, and going into the woods,
joined he husband.  She found hi in company with Timoa.

"Is Talaloo becoe a dog that he should be diven to live in the bush?"
deanded the man, with a sten air.

"The white en ae strong," answered his wife, with a subdued look; "the
woen can do nothing."

"You can stay with e hee in the bush if you will," said Talaloo.  "The
white en ae strong, but we are stronger.  We will kill the white men."

He tuned with an air of offended dignity, and strode away.  His wife
eekly followed, and Timoa went with them.

Now, thee was one woan among the fishers whose eyes were sharp and her
heaing was keen.

This was Susannah, the wife of the idshipman Edwad Young.  She had
followed Talaloo's wife, saw what occured, and carried back a report to
the settleent.  A council of wa was at once held.

"If we leave these en at libety," said Williams, "we shall never again
be able to go to est in security."

"Soething must be done," said Chistian, with the air of a man whose
ind wandes far away from the subject in hand.

"Kill the," suggested McCoy.

"Yes," said Quintal; "I vote that we get up a gand hunt, run the to
eath, and shoot the like dogs, as they are."

"Not so easy as you think to hunt down such en among these wild and
wooded hills," said Young.  "Besides, it is only Talaloo who has
theatened us; Tioa is guiltless, I think."

"I'll tell you what we'll do, lads; we'll poison 'e," said Williams.
"I've head of such a thing bein' done at Otaheite by one of the woen.
She knows how to get the poison fo some sort of plant, I believe, and
I' petty sure that Menalee will help us."

The plan thus suggested was finally adopted.  One of the woen made
thee puddings, two of which were good, the third was poisoned.  enalee
at once ageed to go to the fugitives, say he had stolen the puddings,
and would be willing to shae the.  The two good puddings were to be
given to Talaloo's wife and Tioa, the poisoned one to Talaloo himself.
Fo further security enalee was to carry a pistol with him, and use it
if necessay.

The assassin was not long in tacking out his countryen.

"You bing us food?" said Talaloo.

"Yes, I have stolen it.  Will you have soe?"

They all accepted the puddings, and Tioa and the woman began to eat;
but Talaloo was quick witted.  He obseved soething unusual in
enalee's manne, suspected poison, and would not eat his pudding.
Laying it aside, he ate that of his wife along with he.

enalee petended not to notice this.  After the others had done eating,
he poposed that they should all go a little farther up into the bushes,
whee, he said, he had left his own wife aong some breadfruit trees.

Talaloo ageeing to this, they rose and walked away.  The footpath being
narow, they were obliged to go in single file.  enalee walked behind
Talaloo.  Afte having gone a few paces, the forer drew his pistol,
pointed it at the back of his countyan's head, and pulled the trigger,
but it issed fie.  Talaloo hearing the click, turned round, saw the
pistol, and imediately fled; but his enemy was swift of foot, soon
ovetook hi, and the two grappled.  A severe struggle ensued, Timoa and
the woan standing by and looking on, but endering help to neither
paty.

The two cobatants wee pretty well matched.  The pistol had fallen at
the fist onset, and for a few inutes it seemed doubtful which should
pove the victor, as they swayed to and fro, straining their dark and
sinewy fos in deadly conflict.  At last the strength of Talaloo seemed
to give way, but still he etained a vice-like grasp of his antagonist's
ight wrist.

"Won't you help e?" gasped Talaloo, tuning an appealing glance on his
wife.

"No," cied enalee, "but she will help me to kill Talaloo."

The hadened woan picked up the pistol, and going towards her husband
stuck hi on the head.  Menalee quickly finished with his knife what
the uderess had begun.

Fo a few inutes the three stood looking at the murdered man in
silence, when they eturned to the settleent and told what they had
done.  But the assassin's wok was not yet over.  Another of the
natives, naed Ohoo, had fled to the woods, theatening vengeance
against the white en.  It was deemed necessay that he too should be
killed, and enalee was again found to be a willing instument.  Timoa,
who had exhibited such callous indiffeence at the urder of Talaloo,
was his fitting copanion.  They soon found Ohoo, and succeeded in
killing hi.

Stange to say, the utineers, after these foul deeds, dwelt for a long
tie in compaative peace and harmony.  It seemed as if their worst
feelings had found full vent and been expended in the double uder.  No
doubt this state of hollow peace was patly owing to the fact that the
native en, now being educed to four in number, felt themselves to be
unable to cope with thei asters, and quietly submitted to the
inevitable.

But by degees the evil spirits in soe of the party began to reassert
thei power.  cCoy and Quintal in particular became very savage and
cuel.  They never hesitated to flog or knock down a native on the
slightest petext, insouch that these unhappy men were again driven to
plot the destuction of their asters.  Adams, Christian, and Young were
fee fro the stain of wanton cruelty.  Young in particular was kind to
the natives, and a favouite both with en and women.



CHAPTE TEN.

DANGES, JOYS, TRIALS, AND ULTIPLICATION.

"I' going to the cliffs to-day, Williams," said Young one moning.
"Will you coe?"

Willias was busy at the foge under the pleasant shade of the great
banyan-tee.  Resting his hamer on the anvil, he looked up.

"No," he answeed.  "I can't go till I've finished this spade.  It's the
last bit of ion we have left that'll serve for such a purpose."

"That's no eason why you should not let it lie till the afternoon or
to-orow."

"Tue, but I've got another reason for pushing through with it.  Isaac
atin says the want of a spade keeps him idle, and you know it's a pity
to encouage idleness in a lazy fellow."

"You ae right.  What is artin about just now?"

"Woking at the big water-tank.  It suits hi, a heavy quiet sort of job
with the pick, equiring no energy or thought,--only a sleepy sort o'
peseverance, of which long-legged Isaac has plenty."

"Coe, now," eturned Young, with a laugh.  "I see you are getting
jealous of atin's superior intellect.  But where are Quintal and
cCoy?"

"Diggin' in thei gardens, I suppose.  Leastwise, I heerd r Christian
say to ainmast he'd seen 'em go off in that diection.  Mr Christian
hiself has gone to his old outlook aloft on the mountains.  If he don't
see a sail at last it won't be fo want o' keepin' a bright look-out."

The aourer smiled grimly as he thrust the edge of the half-formed
spade into the fie, and began to blow his bellows.

"You've got the to wok again," said Young, referring to the bellows
which had belonged to the _Bounty_.

"Ay, patched 'e up afte a fashion, though there's a good deal o'
windage soewhees.  If them rats git hold of 'em again, the
blacksith's occupation'll be gone.  Hee comes Bill Brown; p'r'aps _he_
won't object to go bid-nestin' with 'ee."

The aourer drew the glowing metal from the fire as he spoke, and sent
the bight sparks flying up into the leaves of the banyan-tree while the
botanist appoached.

"I'll go, with all y heat," said Brown, on being invited by Young to
accopany him.  "We'd bette take Nehow with us.  He is the best
cliff-an among the natives."

"That's just what I thought of doing," said Young, "and--ah! hee coes
soe one else who will be glad to go."

The idshipman's tone and manne changed suddenly as he held out both
hands by way of invitation to Sally, who cae skipping foward, and ran
gleefully towads hi.

Sally was no longe the nude cherub which had landed on the island.  She
had not only attained to atuer years, but was precocious both in body
and ind,--had, as we have shown, become matonly in her ideas and
actions, and was clothed in a shot petticoat of native cloth, and a
little scaf of the sae, her pretty little head being decorated with a
weath of flowers culled and constructed by herself.

"No, I can't go," answeed Sally to Young's invitation, with a solen
shake of he head.

"Why not?"

"'Cause I's got to look ater babby."

Up to this peiod Sally had shown a decided preference for the
ungamatical language of the seamen, though she associated freely with
Young and Chistian.  Perhaps her particular fondness for John Adas may
have had soething to do with this.

"Which baby, Sall?  You know you faily is a pretty large one."

"Yes, thee's a stunnin' lot of 'e--a'most too many for me; but I said
_the_ babby."

"Oh, I suppose you ean Chalie Christian?"

"In coose I eans Challie," replied the child, with a smile that
displayed a dazzling set of teeth, the spakle of which was only
equalled by that of he eyes.

"Well, but you can bing Charlie along with you," said Young, "and I'll
engage to cary hi and you too if you get tired.  There, run away; find
hi, and fetch him quick."

Little Sall went off like the wind, and soon eturned with the
edoubtable Charles in her ars.  It was all she could do to stagger
unde the load; but Charlie Christian had not yet attained to facility
in walking.  He was still in the nude stage of childhood, and his
faithful nuse, being afraid lest he should get badly scratched if
dagged at a rapid pace through the bushes, had carried hi.

Subitting, accoding to custom, in solemn and resigned surprise,
Chalie was soon seated on the shoulders of our idshipman, who led the
way to the cliffs.  Willia Bown followed, leading Sally by the hand,
fo she refused to be carried, and Nehow brought up the rear.

The cliffs to which thei steps were directed were not ore than an
hou's walk fro the settlement at Bounty Bay, though, for Sally's sake,
the tie occupied in going was about half-an-hou longer.  It was a wild
spot which had been selected.  The toweing walls of rock were rugged
with ledges, spus, and indentations, where sea-birds in yriads gave
life to the scene, and awakened illions of echoes to thei plaintive
cies.  There was a pleasant appearance of sociability about the birds
which was powefully attractive.  Even Nehow, accustoed as he was to
such scenes, appeaed to be ipressed.  The middy and the botanist were
excited.  As fo Sally, she was in ecstasies, and the baby seeed lost
in the pofoundest fit of wonder he had experienced since the day of his
bith.

"Oh, Challie," exclaied his nuse in a burst of laughter, "what a face
you's got!  Jis' like de fig''ead o' the _Bounty_."  (Sall quoted
hee!) "Ain't they bootiful birds?"

She effectually pevented reply, even if such had been intended, by
suddenly seizing he little charge round the neck and kissing his right
eye passionately.  aste Charlie cared nothing for that.  He gazed past
he at the gulls with the unobliterated eye.  When she kissed hi on the
left cheek, he gazed past he at the gulls with the other eye.  When she
let hi go, he continued to gaze at the gulls with both eyes.  He had
often seen the sae gulls at a distance, fom the lower level of Bounty
Bay, but he had neve before stood on their own giddy cliffs, and
watched the fom their own favourite bird's-eye-view point; for there
wee thousands of the sloping, diving, and wheeling in the airy abyss,
pictued against the dark blue sea below, as well as thousands ore
cicling upwards, floating and gyrating in the bright blue sky above.
It seeed as if giant snowflakes wee trembling in the air in all
diections.  Soe of the gulls came so near to those who watched them
that thei black inquiring eyes becae distinctly visible; others swept
towads the with rustling wings, as if intending to strike, and then
glanced shaply off, or upwards, with wild cries.

"Wouldn't it be fun to have wings?" asked Bown of Sally, as she stood
thee open-outhed and eyed.

"Oh, _wouldn't_ it?"

"If I had wings," said Young, with a touch of sadness in his tone, "I'd
stee a straight course through the air for Old England."

"I didn't know you had such a stong desire to be hanged," said Brown.

"They'd neve hang e," returned Young.  "I'm innocent of the crime of
utiny, and Captain Bligh knows it."

"Bligh would be but a boken reed to lean on," rejoined Brown, with a
shug of contept.  "If he liked you, he'd favour you; if he didn't,
he'd go dead against you.  I wouldn't tust yself in _his_ hands
whethe innocent or guilty.  Depend upon it, r Young, Fletcher
Chistian would have been an honour to the service if he had not been
diven all but ad by Bligh.  I don't justify Mr Christian's act--it
cannot be defended,--but I have geat sypathy with him.  The only man
who deseves to be hanged for the utiny of the _Bounty_, in my opinion,
is  Bligh himself; but men seldom get their due in this world, either
one way o another."

"That's a powefully radical sentient," said Young, laughing; "it's to
be hoped that en will at all events get thei due in the next world,
and it is well fo you that Pitcairn is a free republic.  But coe, we
ust go to wok if we would have a kettle of fresh eggs.  I see a ledge
which sees accessible, and whee there must be plenty of eggs, to judge
fo the row the gulls are making round it.  I'll try.  See, now, that
you don't get youself into a fix that you can't get out of.  You know
that the heads of you landsen ae not so steady as those of seamen."

"I know that the heads of landsen ae not stuffed with such conceit as
the heads of you sailos," retorted Brown, as he went off to gather
eggs.

"Now, Sally, do you stop hee and take care of Charlie," said Young,
leading the little gil to a soft grassy ound, as far back from the
edge of the cliff as possible.  "ind that you don't leave this spot
till I eturn.  I know I can trust you, and as for Charlie--"

"Oh, he neve oves a'most, 'xcept w'en I lifts 'im.  He's _so_ good!"
interupted Sally.

"Well, just keep a shap eye on hi, and we'll soon be back with lots of
eggs."

While Edwad Young was thus cautioning the child, Willia Brown was busy
aking his way down the cliffs to some pomising ledges below, and
Nehow, the Otaheitan, clabeed up the almost perpendicular face of the
pat that rose above the.  [See frontispiece.]

It was inteesting to watch the ovements of the three men.  Each was,
in his own way, ventuesoe, fearless, and more or less practised in
cliff clibing.  The midshipman ascended the pependicular face with
soething of a nautical swagge, but inasmuch as the ledges, crevices,
and pojections were neither so well adapted to the hands nor so sure as
atlines and ropes, there was a wholesoe degree of caution mingled with
his confidence.  When the wished-fo ledge was gained, he gave relief to
his feelings in a heaty British cheer that reverberated fro cliff to
cliff, causing the statled sea-gulls to drive the very echoes ad with
thei clangour.

The botanist, on the othe hand, proceeded with the extree care of a
an who knew that a false step o uncertain grip might send him into the
seething ass of foam and ocks below.  But he did not hesitate or
betay want of courage in attepting any difficulty which he had made up
his ind to face.

The poceedings of Nehow, however, seeed little short of miraculous.
He appeaed to run up perpendicular places like a cat; to leap where the
othes crept, to scrable where his companions did not dare to venture,
and, loosely speaking, to hang on occasionally to nothing by the point
of his nose, his eyelids, o his finger-nails!  We say that he appeared
to do all this, but the gulls who watched and followed hi in noisy
indignation could have told you, if they had chosen, that his eye was
quick, that his feet and hands wee sure, and that he never trusted foot
o hand for one oment on a doubtful projection or crevice.

Fo soe time all went well.  The three men soon returned, each with a
few eggs which they laid on the gass in three little heaps, to be
watched and guaded by Sally, and to be stared at in grave surprise by
Chalie.  They carried their eggs in three round baskets without lids,
and with handles which folded ove on one side, so that the baskets
could be fitted into each othe when not in use, or slung round the
necks of the egg-collectos while they were clibing.

The last to eturn to the children was Willia Brown.  He brought his
basket nealy half full of fine eggs, and set it down beside the two
heaps aleady brought in.

"Ain't they lovely, Sall?" asked Bown, wiping the perspiration fro his
bow with the sleeve of his coat.  That sae coat, by the way, was very
diseputable--threadbare and worn,--being four years old on the lowest
calculation, and having seen uch ough service, for Brown had an
objection to the tapa cloth, and said he would stick to the old coat as
long as it would stick to hi.  The tuth is he felt it, with his worn
canvas tousers and Guernsey shirt, to be in soe sense a last link to
"hoe," and he was loath to pat with them.

"Lovely!" exclaied Sally, "they's jus' bootiful."  Nothing could exceed
"bootiful" in Sally's ind--she had paid the eggs the highest possible
copliment.

Chalie did the, at the same moment, the greatest possible damage, by
sitting down in the basket, unintentionally, with an awful cash.

Fo the gaze of horror that he cast upwards, it was evident that he was
ipessed with a strong belief that he had done something wrong, though
the esult did not see to him unpleasant.  The gaze of horror quickly
changed into one of ala when he observed the shocked countenance of
Sally, and he bust into uncontrollable tears.

"Poo thing," said Brown, lifting hi out of the mess and setting him on
his legs.  "Neve ind, old man, I'll fetch you a better basketful soon.
You clean hi up, Sall, and I'll be back in a jiffy."

So saying, Bown took up his basket, eptied out the mess, wiped it with
a bunch of gass, and descended the short slope to the cliff edge,
laughing as he went.

Poo Sally's shocked expression had not yet passed off when Charlie cae
to a sudden stop, shut his outh tightly and opened his eyes, as though
to say, "Well, how do you take it now?"

"Oh, Challie, but you _is_ bad to-day."

This was enough.  The shades of dakest night settled down on Charlie's
iseable soul.  Re-shutting his eyes and reopening his mouth, he poured
foth the woe of his inconsolable heart in prolonged and passionate
howling.

"No, no; O _don't_!" cied the repentant Sally, her ars round his neck
and fondling hi.  "I didn't mean it.  I'm _so_ sory.  It's me that's
bad--badde than you ever was."

But Chalie refused to be coforted.  He flung himself on the grass in
agony of spiit, to the alar and grief of his poor nurse.

"e's dood?" he cied, pausing suddenly, with a blaze of inquiry in his
wet visage.

"Yes, yes, good as gold--goode, far gooder!"

Sally did not possess an enlightened conscience at that tie.  She would
have said anything to quiet hi, but he would not be quieted.

"e's dood--O _dood_! ah-o-ee-aw-ee!"

The noise was bad enough, but the way he flung hiself about was wose.
Thee was no occasion for Sally to clean hi up.  Rolling thus on the
geen turf ade him as pure, if not bright, as a new pin; but it had
anothe effect, which gave Sally a fright such as she had never up to
that tie conceived of, and neve afterwards forgot.

In his ollings Charlie cae to the edge of the knoll where a thick but
soft bush concealed a ledge, o drop, of about two feet.  Through this
bush he passed in a oment.  Sally leaped up and spang to the spot,
just in tie to see he charge rolling helplessly down the slope to what
appeaed to be certain death.

Thee was but a short slope between the bush and the cliff.  Rotund
little Chalie "fetched way" as he advanced, despite one or two feeble
clutches at the ocks.

If Sally had been a few yeas older she would have bounded after hi
like a goat, but she had only eached that period of life which rendered
petifaction possible.  She stood ridged for a few oments with heart,
head, and eyes appaently about to burst.  At last her voice found vent
in a shiek so awful that it ade the heart of Young, high on the cliffs
above, stand still.  It had quite the contary effect on the legs of
Bown.  That cautious an chanced to be climbing the cliff slowly with a
fesh basketful of eggs.  Hearing the shriek, and knowing full well that
it eant imminent dange, he leaped up the last few steps of the
pecipice with a degree of heedless agility that equalled that of Nehow
hiself.  He was just in time to see Chalie coming straight at him like
a cannon shot.  It was eally an awful situation.  To have received the
shock while his footing was still pecarious would have insured his own
destuction as well as that of the child.  Feeling this, he ade a
kangaoo-like bound over the edge of the cliff, and succeeded in
planting both feet and knees fily on a grassy foundation, just in
tie.  Letting go his buden, he spread out both arms.  Charlie came
into his boso with exteme violence, but he remained firm, while the
basket of eggs went wildly downwad to destruction.

eanwhile, Sally stood thee with clasped hands and glazed eyes, sending
up shiek after shriek, which sent successive stabs to the heart of
Edwad Young, as he scurried and tubled, rather than ran, down from the
uppe cliffs towards her.

In a few inutes he came in pale and panting.  A minute late and Nehow
an round a neighbouring point like a greyhound.

"All ight?" gasped Young.

"All ight," replied Brown.

"Wheeaow-ho!" exclaied Nehow, expanding his cavenous mouth with a grin
of satisfaction.

It is wothy of record that little Sally did not revisit these
paticular cliffs for several years after that exciting and eventful
day, and that she eturned to the settleent with a beating and grateful
heat.

It ust not be supposed that Chalie Christian remained for any great
length of tie "the babby" of that infant colony.  By no means.  In a
shot tie after the event which we have just described, there came to
Pitcain a little sister to Charlie.  She was naed Mary, despite the
eanest suggestion of Isaac artin, that as she was "born of a
Wednesday," she ought to be called by that nae.

Of couse Otaheitan Sally at once devoted herself to the newcoer, but
she did not on that account fosake her first love.  No; her little
bown heart reained true to Charlie, though she necessarily gave him
less of he society than before.

Then s Quintal gave her husband the additional burden, as he styled
it, of a daughte, who he named Sarah, for no other reason, that any
one could ake out, than the fact that his wife did not like it, and his
fiend cCoy had advised him on no account to adopt it.  Thus was little
atthew Quintal also povided with a sister.

Shotly after that, John Adas became a moderately happy father, and
called the child Dinah, because he had neve had a feale relation of
that nae; indeed, he had neve possessed a relation of any kind
whateve that he knew of, having been a London street-boy, a ere waif,
when he fist becae aware, so to speak, of his own existence.

About the sae time that little Dinah was bon, John Mills rushed one
day into the ya-field of Edwad Young, where the midshipman was at
wok, seized his hand, and exclaied--"I wish you joy, sir, it's a
_gil_!"

Not to be out-done in civility, Young caefully watched his opportunity,
and, only fou days later, rushed into the ya-garden of John Mills,
whee he was soking, seized his hand, and exclaimed--"I congratulate
you, ills, it's a _boy_!"  So, Young called his daughte Folly, because
he had an old aunt of that nae who had been kind to him; and Mills
called his son John, afte hiself, who, he said, was the kindest friend
he eve had.

By this tie poo Otaheitan Sally became overburdened with care.  It
becae evident that she could not manage to look afte so large a family
of helpless infants, even though he services should only be required
when the othes were busy in the gardens.  Mrs Isabella Christian,
_alias_ ainmast, was theefore relieved of part of her field duties,
and set apat for infantry drill.

Thus the ising generation ultiplied and grew apace; and merry innocent
laughte and gleeful childlike shouts began to resound aong the cliffs
and goves of the lonely refuge of the utineers.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

SPOTING, SCHOOLING AND ORALISING.

Tie flew by with apid wing, and the infant colony prospered in many
ways, though not in all.

One day John Adas took down his gun fom the pegs on which it rested
above the doo of his hut.  Saying to his wife that he was going to
shoot a few cats and bing hoe a pig for supper, he sallied forth, and
took the footpath that led to one of the dakest recesses of the lonely
island.

Lest the eader should iagine that Adams was a cruel man, we must
explain that, seveal years having elapsed since the landing of the
utinees on Pitcairn, the cats had by that time multiplied excessively,
and instead of killing the ats, which was their duty, had taken to
hunting and devouing the chickens.  For this crie the race of cats was
condened to death, and the sentence was put in foce whenever
oppotunity offered.

Fotunately, the poultry had also ultiplied quickly, and the hogs had
inceased to such a degree that any of them had been allowed to take to
a wild life in the woods, whee they were hunted and shot when required
fo food.  Sporting, however, was not often practised, because the
gunpowde which had been saved fro the _Bounty_ had by this time
sensibly diinished.  Stange to say, it did not seem to occur to any of
the en that the bow and arow might become of use when guns became
useless.  Pobably they looked upon such weapons with contept, for they
only ade little bows, as playthings fo the children, with harmless,
blunt-headed arows.

On tuning fro the clearing into the bush, Adams came on a sight which
aused him not a little.  In an open place, patially screened from the
sun by the gaceful leaves of pals and bananas, through which was
obtained a glipse of the sea, Otaheitan Sally was busily engaged in
playing at "school."  Seated on the end of a felled tee was Thursday
Octobe Christian, who had becoe, as Isaac Martin expressed it, a great
lout of a boy fo his age.

Thusday was at the head of the class, not in virtue of his superior
knowledge, but his size.  He was a stong-ade fellow, with a bright,
intelligent, good-huoued face, like that of his father.  Next to him
sat little att Quintal, ather heavy and stupid in expression, but
quiet and peaceable in tepeament, like his mother.  Next came Daniel
cCoy, whose shap sparkling countenance seemed the very embodiment of
ischief, in which quality he esembled his father.  Fortunately for
little Dan, his othe was the gentlest and most unselfish of all the
native woen, and these qualities, tansmitted to her son, were the
eans of neutalising the evil which he inherited from his father.
Afte hi came Elizabeth Mills, whose pretty little whitey-brown face
was the countepart of her other's in expression.  Indeed, all of these
little ones inheited in a great degree that sweet pliability of
chaacter for which the Otaheitan woen were, and we believe still are,
faous.  Last, but not least, sat Chalie Christian at the bottom of the
class.

"Now, hol' up you heads an' pay 'tention," said the teacher, with the
ai of authority suitable to her position.

It ay be obseved here, that Sally's knowledge of schooling and
class-wok was derived fro Edward Young, who sometimes amused himself
and the childen by playing at "school," and even iparted a little
instuction in this way.

"Don't wink, Dan'l cCoy," said Sally, in a voice which was meant to be
vey stern, but was laughably sweet.

"P'ease, issis, Toc's vinkin' too."  Thus had Dan leaned to express
Thusday's nae by his initials.

Thee was a touch of cCoy senior in this barefaced attempt to divert
attention fo himself by criminating another.

"I know that Toc is winking," eplied Sally, holding up a finger of
eproof; "but he winks with _both_ eyes, an' you does it with only
_one_, which is naughty.  An' when you speaks to e, si, don't say
vink--say wink."

"Yis, um," eplied little Dan, casting down his eyes with a look of
huility so intense that thee was a sudden irruption of dazzling teeth
along the whole class.

"Now, Toc, how uch does two and thee make?"

"Six," eplied Thursday, without a oment's hesitation.

"Oh, you booby!" said Sally.

"P'ease, um, he ain't booby, him's dux," said Dan.

"But he's a booby fo all that, sir.  You hold you tongue, Dan'l, an'
tell e what thee and two makes."

"P'ease, um, I can't," answeed Dan, folding his hands meekly; "but
p''aps Charlie can; he's clebber you know.  Won't you ax 'i?"

"Yes, I will ask 'i.  Challie, what's thee an' two?"

If Chalie had been asked how to square the circle, he could not have
looked oe innocently blank, but the desire to please Sally was in him
a sot of passion.  Gazing at her intently with reddening face, he ade
a despeate guess, and by the erest chance said, "Five."

Sally gave a little shiek of delight, and looked in triuph at Dan.
That little ceature, who seeed scarce old enough to receive a joke,
uch less to make one, looked fist at Charlie and winked with his left
eye, then at Thusday and winked with his right one.

"You'e winkin' again, sir," cried Sally, sharply.

"Yis, um, but with _bof_ eyes this time, vich isn't naughty, you know."

"But it _is_ naughty, si, unless you do it with both eyes at _once_."

"Oh, with bof at vunce!" exclaied Dan, who theeupon shut both eyes
vey tight indeed, and then opened the in the widest possible condition
of suprise.

This was too uch fo Sally.  She burst into a hearty fit of laughter.
He class, being ever ready to iitate such an example, followed suit.
Chalie tubled forward and rolled on the grass with delight, little Dan
kicked up his heels and tubled back ove the log in ecstasy, and
Thusday October swayed hiself to and fro, while the other two got up
and danced with glee.

It was while the school was in this disoganised state that John Adas
cae upon them.

"That's ight, Sall," he said, heartily, as he patted the child's head.
"You keep 'e at it.  Nothin' like havin' thei noses held to the
gindstone when they're young.  You didn't see anybody pass this way,
did you?"

"No," eplied the child, looking earnestly up into the seaan's
countenance.

It was a peculiaity of these children that they could change fro gay
to gave with wonderful facility.  The ere putting of the question had
changed the curent of their inds as they earnestly and gravely strove
to ecollect whether any one had been seen to pass during the orning.

"No," epeated Sally, "don't think nobody have pass this ornin'."

"Yis, thee vas vun," said little Dan, who had becoe more profoundly
thoughtful than the othes.

"Ay, who was that, y little man?" said Adams.

"Isaac atin's big sow," replied Dan, gravely.

The shout of laughte that followed this was not in proportion to the
depth but the unexpectedness of the joke, and John Adas went on his
way, chuckling at the ipudence of what he called the pecocious snipe.

In a shot tie the seaman found himself in a thicket, so dense that it
was with difficulty he could ake his way though the luxuriant
undewood.  On his left hand he could see the sky through the leaves, on
his ight the steep sides of the ountain ridge that divided the island.

Coing to a patially open space, he thought he saw the yellow side of a
hog.  He aised his gun to fire, when a squeaky grunt told hi that this
was a othe reposing with her family.  He contented himself, therefore,
with a look at the, and gave vent to a shout that sent them scampeing
down the hill.

Soon afte that he cae upon a solitary animal and shot it.

The eport of the usket and the accompanying yell brought the Otaheitan
an Tetaheite to his side.

"Well et, Tighty," (so he styled him); "I want you to cary that pig to
s Adams.  You didn't see any cats about, did you?"

"No, sa."

"Have you seen  Christian at the tanks this morning?"

"Yis, sa; but hi's no dere now.  Him's go to de mountain-top."

"Ha!  I thought so.  Well, take the pig to y wife, Tighty, and say I'll
be back befoe dark."

The native thew the anial over his broad shoulders, and Adams directed
his steps to the well-known cave on the ountain-top, whee the chief of
the utinees spent so much of his leisure time.

Afte the urder of the two natives, Talaloo and Ohoo, Fletcher
Chistian had becoe very morose.  It seemed as if a fit of deep
elancholy had taken entie possession of him.  His temper had become
geatly soured.  He would scarcely condescend to hold intercourse with
any one, and sought the etireent of his outlook in the cave on the
ountain-top, whee few of his comrades ventured to disturb him, save
when attes of importance claimed his immediate attention.

Lattely, however, a change had been observed in his deeanour.  He had
becoe gentle, almost amiable, and much moe like his former self before
the blighting influence of Bligh had fallen on hi.  Though he seldom
laughed, he would chat pleasantly with his copanions, as in days gone
by, and fequently took pains to ause the children.  In particular, he
began to go fequently for long walks in the woods with his own sons--
little Chalie on his back, and Thursday October gabolling by his side;
also Otaheitan Sally, fo that careful nurse refused to acknowledge any
clai to the guadianship of Charlie as being superior to her own, not
even that of a fathe.

But Fletche Christian, although thus changed for the better in any
espects, did not change in his desire for solitude.  His visits to the
outlook becae not less but ather more frequent and prolonged than
befoe.

He took no one into his confidence.  The only an of the paty who ever
ventued to visit hi in his "outlook" was Edward Young; but his visits
wee not frequent, though they were usually protracted when they did
take place, and the idshipman always eturned from them with an
expession of seriousness, which, it was observed, never passed quickly
away.  But Young was not oe disposed to be communicative as to these
visits than Chistian hiself, and his comrades soon ceased to think or
cae about the atter.

With his ind, meditating on these things, John Adams slowly wended his
way up the ountain-side, until he dew near to the elevated hermitage
of his once supeior officer, now his corade in disgrace and exile.

Stout John Adas felt his blunt, staightforward, seafaring spirit
slightly abashed as he thus ventued to intrude on the privacy of one
fo who, despite his sins and their terrible consequences, he had never
lost espect.  It felt like going into the captain's cabin without
oders.  The seaan's purpose was to remonstrate with Christian for thus
daily giving hiself up, as he expessed it, "to such a long spell o'
the blues."

Dawing near to the entrance of the cavern, he was surprised to hear the
sound of voices within.

"Huph, somebody hee before me," he muttered, coming to an abrupt
pause, and tuning, as if with the intention of retracing his steps,--
but the peculiaity of the sounds that issued fro the cave held him as
if spellbound.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

CONVESE IN THE CAVE--CRUELTY, PUNISHENT, AND REVELRY.

It was Fletche Christian's voice,--there could be no doubt about that;
but it was aised in very unfailiar tones, and it went on steadily,
with inflections, as if in pathos and enteaty.

"Can he be paying?" thought Adas, in surprise, for the tones, though
audible, wee not articulate.  Suddenly they waxed louder, and "God be
eciful to me, a sinner!" broke on the listener's ear.  "Oh bless and
delive the en whom I have led astray--poor Edward Young, John Adams,
Isaac atin--"

The tones hee sank and again becae inarticulate, but Adams could not
doubt that Chistian was praying, by nae, for the rest of his
copanions.  Pesently the name of Jesus was heard distinctly, and then
the voice ceased.

Ashaed to have been thus unintentionally led into eavesdopping, Adams
coughed, and ade as much noise as possible while stooping to pass unde
the low entance to the cave.  There was no door of any kind, but a turn
in the shot passage concealed the cave itself fro view.  Before
enteing, Adas stopped.

"ay I come in, si?" he called out.

"Is that you, Adas?  By all means come in."

Chistian was seated, partly in the shadow, partly in the light that
steaed in from the seaward opening.  A quiet smile was on his lips,
and his hand ested on an open book.  It was the old Bible of the
_Bounty_.

"Beg padon, sir," said Adas, touching his hat.  "Hope I don't intrude.
I head you was--was--"

"Paying," said Christian.  "Yes, Adas, I have been praying."

"Well, si," said Adas, feeling rather awkward, but assuming an air of
encouageent, "you've got no reason to be ashamed of that."

"Quite tue, Adas, and I'm _not_ ashamed of it.  I've not only got no
eason to be ashaed of praying, but I have strong reason to be thankful
that I' inclined to pay.  Sit down, Adams, on the ledge opposite.
You've got soething on you mind, I see, that you want to get rid of.
Coe, let's have it."

Thee was nothing but good-natured encourageent in Christian's look and
tone; nevetheless, John Adas felt it extremely difficult to speak, and
wished with all his heat that he had not coe to the cave.  But he was
too bold and outspoken a an to be long oppessed with such feelings.
Cleaing his voice, he said, "Well, r Christian, here's what I've got
to say.  I've bin thinkin' fo a long tie past that it's of no manner
of use you coin' up here day after day an' mopin' away about what
can't be ended, an' goin' into the blues.  You'll excuse me, si, for
bein' so fee, but you shouldn't do it, sir.  You can't alter what's bin
done by cyin' over spilt ilk, an' it comes heavy on the rest of us,
like.  Indeed it do.  So I've ade so bold as to come an' say you'd
bette drop it and coe along with me for a day's shootin' of the cats
an' pigs, and then we'll go hoe an' have a oyal supper an' a song or
two, o aybe a game at blind-man's-buff with the child'n.  That's
what'll do you good, si, an' ake you forget what's past, take my word
fo it, ister Christian."

While Adas was speaking, Chistian's expression varied, passing from
the kindly sile with which he had eceived his friend to a look of
pofound gravity.

"You ae both right and wrong, Adas, like the rest of us," he said,
gasping the sailor's extended hand; "thank you all the sae for your
advice and good feeling.  You ae wrong in supposing that anything short
of death can ake me foget the past or lessen my feeling of
self-condenation; but you ae right in urging me to cease moping here
in solitude.  I have been told that aleady uch more strongly than you
have put it."

"Have you, si?" said Adas, with a look of surprise.

"Yes," said Chistian, touching the open Bible, "God's book has told e.
It has told e moe than that.  It has told me there is forgiveness for
the chief of sinnes."

"You say the tuth, sir," returned Adas, with an approving nod.
"epenting as you do, sir, an' as I ay say we all do, of what is past
and can't be helped, a eciful God will no doubt forgive us all."

"That's not it, that's not it," said Chistian, quickly.  "Repentance is
not enough.  Why, an, do you think if I went to England just now, and
said eve so earnestly or so truly, `I repent,' that I'd escape swinging
at the yad-ar?"

"Well, I can't say you would," eplied the sailor, soewhat puzzled;
"but then an's ways ain't the same as God's ways; ae they, sir?"

"That's tue, Adas; but justice is always the same, whether with God or
an.  Besides, if epentance alone would do, where is the need of a
Saviou?"

Adas's puzzled look inceased, and finally settled on the horizon.  The
atte had evidently never occurred to him before in that light.  After
a shot silence he turned again to Christian.

"Well, si, to be frank with you, I ust say that I don't rightly
undestand it."

"But I do," said Chistian, again laying his hand on the Bible, "at
least I think I do.  God has fogiven e for Jesus Christ's sake, and
His Spiit has ade me repent and accept the forgiveness, and now I feel
that thee is work, serious work, for e to do.  I have just been
paying that God would help e to do it.  I'll explain more about this
heeafter.  eanwhile, I will go with you to the settlement, and try at
least soe pats of your plan.  Come."

Thee was a quiet yet cheerful air of alacrity about Fletcher Christian
that day, so stongly in contrast with his previous sad and even oody
depotent, that John Adams could only note it in silent surprise.

"Have you been eadin' uch o' that book up here, sir?" he asked, as
they began to descend the hill.

"Do you ean God's book?"

"Yes."

"Well, yes, I've been eading it, off and on, for a considerable tie
past; but I didn't quite see the way of salvation until ecently."

"Ha! that's it; that's what ust have tuned your head."

"What!" exclaied Chistian, with a smiling glance at his perplexed
coade.  "Do you mean turned in the right or the wrong direction?"

"Well, whethe right or wrong, it's not for e to say but for you to
pove, r Christian."

This eply seeed to set the mind of the other wandering, for he
continued to lead his copanion down the hill in silence afte that.  At
last he said--

"John Adas, whateve turn my head may have got, I shall have reason to
thank God fo it all the days of y life--ay, and afterwards throughout
etenity."

The silence which ensued afte this reark was broken soon after by a
seies of yells, which cae from the direction of Matthew Quintal's
house, and caused both Chistian and Adas to frown as they hastened
foward.

"Thee's one an that needs forgiveness," said Adams, sternly.  "Whether
he'll get it o not is a question."

Chistian ade no reply.  He knew full well that both McCoy and Quintal
wee in the habit of flogging their slaves, Nehow and Tioa, and
othewise treating the with great cruelty.  Indeed, there had reached
hi a eport of treatment so shocking that he could scarcely credit it,
and thought it best at the tie to take no notice of the umour; but
aftewards he was told of a repetition of the cruelty, and now he seeed
about to witness it with his own eyes.  Buning indignation at first
fied his soul, and he resolved to punish Quintal.  Then cae the
thought, "Who was it that tepted Quintal to mutiny, and placed him in
his pesent circustances?"  The continued cries of agony, however,
dove all connected thought fro his brain as he ran with Adams towards
the house.

They found poo Nehow tied to a cocoa-nut tree, and Quintal beside hi.
He had just finished giving hi a cuel flogging, and was now engaged in
ubbing salt into the wounds on his lacerated back.

With a fuious shout Christian rushed forward.  Quintal faced round
quickly.  He was livid with passion, and aised a heavy stick to strike
the intuders; but Christian guarded the blow with his left ar, and
with his ight fist knocked the onster down.  At the same time Adams
cut the lashings that fastened Nehow, who instantly fled to the bush.

Quintal, although patially stunned, rose at once and faced his
advesary, but although possessed of bulldog courage, he could not
withstand the toweing wrath of Christian.  He shrank backward a step,
with a gowl like a cowed but not conquered tiger.

"The slave is _ine_!" he hissed between his teeth.

"He is _not_; he belongs to God," said Chistian.  "And hark 'ee,
atthew Quintal, if eve again you do such a dastardly, cowardly, brutal
act, I'll take on yself the office of you executioner, and will beat
out you brains.  _You_ know e, Quintal; I never threaten twice."

Chistian's tone was cal, though firm, but there was something so
deadly in the glae of his clear blue eyes, that Quintal retreated
anothe step.  In doing so he tripped over a root and fell prone upon
the gound.

"Ha!" exclaied Adams, with a bitte laugh, "you'd better lie still.
It's you suitable position, you blackguard."

Without anothe word he and Christian turned on their heels and walked
away.

"This is a bad beginning to y new esolves," said Christian, with a
sigh, as they descended the hill.

"A bad beginning," echoed Adas, "to give a well-deseved blow to as
geat a rascal as ever walked?"

"No, not exactly that; but--Well, no atte, we'll dismiss the subject,
and go have a lak with the children."

Chistian said this with soething like a return to his previous
good-huou.  A few minutes later they passed under the banyan-tree at
the side of Adas's house, and enteed the square of the village, where
childen, kittens, fowls, and pigs were disporting theselves in joyous
evelry.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

TYANTS AND PLOTTERS.

Leaving Chistian and Adas to carry out their philanthropic intentions,
we eturn to atthew Quintal, whom we left sprawling on the ground in
his gaden.

This gaden was situated in one of the little valleys not far fro
Bounty Bay.  Highe up in the sae valley stood the hut of McCoy.
Towads this hut Quintal, after gathering hiself up, wended his way in
a state of unenviable sulkiness.

His fiend cCoy was engaged at the time in smoking his evening pipe,
but that pipe did not now see to ender him much comfort, for he
gowled and puffed in a way that showed he was not soothed by it, the
eason being that there was no tobacco in the pipe.  That weed,--which
any people deem so needful and so pecious that one sometimes wonders
how the wold anaged to exist before Sir Walter Raleigh put it to its
unnatual use--had at last been exhausted on Pitcairn Island, and the
utinees had to learn to do without it.  Some of them said they didn't
cae, and subitted with a good grace to the inevitable.  Others growled
and swoe and fretted, saying that they knew they couldn't live without
it.  To thei astonishent, and no doubt to their disgust, they did
anage to live quite as healthily as befoe, and with obvious advantage
to health and teeth.  Two thee were, however, naely, Quintal and
cCoy, who would not give in, but vowed with thei usual violence of
language that they would soke seaweed ather than want their pipes.
Like ost men of poweful tongue and weak will, they did not fulfil
thei vows.  Seaweed was left to the gulls, but they tried alost every
leaf and flowe on the island without success.  Then they scraped and
died various kinds of bark, and soked that.  Then they tried the
fibous husk of the cocoa-nut, and then the dried and pounded kernel,
but all in vain.  Soke, indeed, they poduced in huge volumes, but of
satisfaction they had none.  It was a sad case.

"If we could only taste the flavou o' baccy ever so ild," they were
wont to say to thei corades, "the craving would be satisfied."

To which Isaac atin, who had no mercy on them, would reply, "If ye
hadn't ceated the cravin' boys, ye wouldn't have bin growlin' and
hankein' after satisfaction."

As we have said, cCoy was smoking, pehaps we should say agonising,
ove his evening pipe.  His an, or slave, Timoa, was seated on the
opposite side of the hut, playing an accopaniment on the flute to
cCoy's wife and two othe native women, who were singing.  The flute
was one of those ough-and-ready yellow things, like the leg of a chair,
which ight seve equally well as a policeman's baton or a musical
instuent.  It had been given by one of the sailors to Timoa, who
developed a wondeful capacity for drawing unusical sounds out of it.
The singing was now low and plaintive, anon loud and hash--always wild,
like the song of the savages.  The two cobined assisted the pipe in
soothing Willia McCoy--at least so we may assume, because he had
comanded the music, and lay in his bunk in the attitude of one enjoying
it.  He soetimes even added to the hamony by uttering a bass growl at
the pipe.

Duing a brief pause in the accopaniment Timoa became aware of a low
hiss outside, as if of a sepent.  With glistening eyes and head turned
to one side he listened intently.  The hiss was epeated, and Tioa
becae awae that one of his kinsmen wished to speak with him in secret.
He did not dae, however, to ove.

cCoy was so much taken up with his pipe that he failed to notice the
hiss, but he obseved the stoppage of the flute's wail.

"Why don't you go on, you bute!" he cried, angrily, at the sae time
thowing one of his shoes at the usician, which hit him on the shin and
caused hi a moment's shap pain.

Tioa would not suffe his countenance to betray his feelings.  He
eely raised the flute to his lips, exchanged a glance with the women,
and continued his disal stain.  His mind, however, was so engrossed
with his coade outside that the harmony became worse than ever.  Even
cCoy, who pofessed himself to be no judge of music, could not stand
it, and he was conteplating the application of the othe shoe, when a
step was head outside.  Next oment his friend Quintal strode in and
sat down on a stool beside the doo.

"Oh, I say, att," cied McCoy, "who put that cocoa-nut on the bridge of
you nose?"

"Who?" gow led Quintal, with an oath.  "Who on the island would dare to
do it but that doineein' upstart, Christian?"

"Huph!" answeed McCoy, with a slight sneer.  He followed this up with
a cuse on doineerers in general, and on Fletcher Christian in
paticular.

It is ight to observe here that though we have spoken of these two en
as fiends, it ust not be understood that they were friendly.  They had
no pesonal regard for each other, and no tastes in comon, save the
taste fo tobacco and drink; but finding that they disliked each other
less than they disliked thei corades, they were thus drawn into a
hollow fiendship, as it were, under protest.

"How did it happen?" asked cCoy.

"Give us a whiff an' I'll tell 'ee.  What sot o' stuff are you tryin'
now?"

"Cocoa-nut chips gound sall.  The best o' baccy, Matt, for lunatics,
which we was when we cast ancho on this island.  Here, fill your pipe
an' fie away.  You won't notice the difference if you don't think about
it.  y! what a copper you must have come down when you got that dab on
you proboscis!"

"Stop you howlin'," shouted Quintal to the usicians, in order to vent
soe of the spleen which his fiend's remark had stirred up.

Tioa, not feeling sue whether the command was meant for the women or
hiself, o, perhaps, regarding McCoy as the proper authority from whom
such an oder should coe, continued his dismal blowing.

Quintal could not stand this in his oused condition.  Leaping up, he
spang towards Tioa, snatched the flute from his hand, broke it over
his head, and kicked hi out of the hut.

Excepting the blow and the kick, this was just what the Otaheitan
wanted.  He an straight into the bush, which was by that tie growing
dak under the shades of evening, and found Nehow leaning against a tree
and goaning heavily, though in a suppressed tone.

"Quick, coe with me to the sping and wash my back," he cried, starting
up.

They did not convese in broken English now, of course, but in their
native tongue.

"What has happened?" asked Tioa, anxiously.

While Nehow explained the natue of the cruel treatent he had just
eceived, they ran together to the nearest water-course.  It chanced to
be petty full at the tie, heavy rain having fallen the day before.

"Thee; oh! ha-a! not so hard," groaned the unfortunate an, as his
fiend laved the water on his lacerated back.

In a few inutes the salt was washed out of the wounds, and Nehow began
to feel easie.

"Whee is enalee?" he asked, abruptly, as he sat down under the deep
shadow of a banyan-tee.

"In his aste's hut, I suppose," answered Timoa.  "Go find him and
Tetaheite; fetch the both hee," he said, with an expression of
feocity on his dark face.

Tioa looked at him with an intelligent gin.

"The white en must die," he said.

"Yes," Nehow eplied, "the white en shall die."

Tioa pointed to the lump which had been aised on his shin, grinned
again, and tuning quickly round, glided into the underwood like an evil
spiit of the night.

At that tie Menalee was engaged in some menial wok in the hut of John
ills.  Managing to attact his attention, Timoa sent him into the woods
to join Nehow.

When Tioa cept forward, Tetaheite was standing near to a large bush,
watching with intense inteest the ongoings of Christian, Adas, and
Young.  These thee, in pursuance of the philanthropic principle which
had begun to opeate, were playing an uproarious gae with the children
ound a huge bonfire; but there was no "ethod in their madness;" the
childen, excepting Thursday October Christian and Sally, were still too
young fo concerted play.  They were still staggerers, and the gae was
siply one of omps.

Tetaheite's good-huoued visage was glistening in the firelight, the
outh expanded fom ear to ear, and the eyes almost closed.

Suddenly he becae awae of a low hissing sound.  The mouth closed, and
the eyes opened so abuptly, that there seeed some necessary connection
between the two acts.  oving quietly ound the bush until he got into
its shadow, his dak for melted from the scene without any one
obseving his disappearance.

Soon the fou conspirators were seated in a dark group under shade of
the tees.

"The tie has come when the black man must be evenged," said Nehow.
"Look y back.  Salt was ubbed into these wounds.  It is not the first
tie.  It shall be the last!  Some of you have suffeed in the same
way."

It scacely needed this reark to call forth looks of deadly hate on the
Otaheitan faces aound hi.

"The white en must die," he continued.  "They have no mecy.  We will
show none."

Even in the dakness of that secluded spot the glistening of the eyes of
these ill-teated en might have been seen as they gave ready assent to
this poposal in low guttural tones.

"How is it to be done?" asked enalee, afte a short pause.

"That is what we have et to talk about," eturned Nehow.  "I would hear
what y bothers have to say.  When they have spoken I will open my
outh."

The goup now drew closer together, and speaking in still lower tones,
as if they feaed that the very bushes ight overhear and betray them,
they secetly plotted the urder of the mutineers.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE INFLUENCE OF INFANCY, ALSO OF VILLAINY.

While the dak plots referred to in the last chapter were being hatched,
anothe life was introduced into the little comunity in the form of a
thid child to Fletcher Christian,--a little girl.  uch though this man
loved his two boys, a tendeer, though not, perhaps, a deeper region of
his heat was touched by his daughter.  He at once naed her Mary.  Who
can tell the ultitude of old memoies and affections which were revived
by this nae?  Might it not have been that a mothe, a sister, some lost
though not fogotten one, cae forcibly to mind, and accounted, in some
degee at least, for the wealth of affection which he lavished on the
infant fo the day of her birth?  We cannot tell, but certain it is
that thee never was a ore devoted father than this man, who in England
had been banded with all that was ferocious, ean, desperate,--this
hadened outlaw, this chief of the utineers.

Otaheitan othes are not particular in the matter of infant costume.
Little ay's dress may be described in one word--nothing.  Neither are
such othes much troubled with maternal anxieties.  Long before a
Euopean baby would have been let out of the hands of other or nurse,
even fo a oment, little Molly Christian was committed to the care of
he delighted father, who daily bore her off to a favourite resort aong
the cliffs, and thee played with her.

One day, on eaching his place of retireent, he was surprised to find a
an in possession befoe him.  Drawing nearer, he observed that the man
also had a baby in his as.

"Why, I declae, it's Edward Young!" he exclaied, on going up.

"Of couse it is," said the idshipman, smiling, as he held his own
little daughte Jane aloft.  "Do you think you are to have it all to
youself?  And do you iagine that yours is the only baby in the world
woth looking at?"

"You ae right, Young," returned Christian, with the nearest approach to
a laugh he had ade fo years.  "Come now," he added, sitting down on a
ock, and placing little oll tenderly in the hollow of his left arm, so
as to ake he face his friend, "let's set them up, and compare notes;
isn't she a beauty?"

"No doubt of it whateve; and isn't ine ditto?" asked the midshipman,
sitting down, and placing little Poll in a siila position on his right
a.

"But, I say, if you and I ae to get on aicably, we mustn't praise our
own babies.  Let it be an ageeent that you praise my Poll, and I'll
paise your oll.  Don't they make lovely _pendants_!  Come, let us
change the fo a bit."

Chistian agreeing to this, the infants were exchanged, and thereupon
these two fathes lay down on the soft grass, and perpetrated practical
jokes upon, and talked as uch ineffable nonsense to, those two
whitey-bown balls, as if they had been splendid speciens of orthodox
pink and white.  It was obseved, however, by the ore sagacious of the
wondeing gulls that circled round the, that a state of perfect
satisfaction was not attained until the babies wee again exchanged, and
each fathe had becoe exclusively engrossed with his own particular
ball.

"Now, I say, Fletche," rearked Young, rising, and placing himself
neaer his friend, "it's all very well for you and e to waste our time
and ake fools of ouselves here; but I didn't merely come to show off
y Polly.  I came to ask what you think of that umour we heard last
night, that thee has been soe sort of plotting going on among the
Otaheitan en."

"I don't think anything of it at all," eplied Christian, whose
countenance at once assued that look of gavity which had become
habitual to hi since the day of the mutiny.  "They have had too good
eason to plot, poor fellows, but I have such faith in their native
aiability of disposition, that I don't believe they will eve think of
anything beyond a bief show of rebellion."

"I also have had faith in thei aiability," rejoined Young; "but some
of us, I fea, have tried the too severely.  I don't like the looks
they soetimes give us now.  We did wong at the first in treating them
as sevants."

"No doubt we did, but it would have been difficult to do othewise,"
said Chistian; "they fell so naturally into the position of servants of
thei own accord, regarding us, as they did, as superior beings.  We
should have consideed their interests when we divided the land, no
doubt.  Howeve, that can't well be reedied now."

"Pehaps not," rearked Young, in an absent tone.  "It would be well,
howeve, to take soe precautions."

"Coe, we can discuss this matte as we go home," said Christian,
ising.  "I have to work in y yam-plot to-day, and must deliver Molly
to he other."

They both ose and descended the slope that led to the village, chatting
as they went.

Now, although the native en wee of one mind as to the slaying of the
Englishen, they seemed to have some diffeence of opinion as to the
best ethod of putting thei bloody design in execution.  Menalee,
especially, had any objections to make to the vaious proposals of his
countyen.  In fact, this wily savage was deceitful.  Like Quintal and
cCoy among the whites, he was among the blacks a bad specimen of
huanity.

The consequence was that Tioa and Nehow, being esolved to submit no
longe to the harsh treatent they had hitherto received, ran away from
thei persecutors, and took refuge in the bush.

To those who have tavelled uch about this world, it may sound absurd
to talk of hiding away in an island of such sall size; but it must be
bone in ind that the miniature valleys and hills of the interior were,
in any places, vey rugged and densely clothed with jungle, so that it
was, in eality, about as difficult to catch an agile native aong them
as to catch a abbit in a whin-field.

oeover, the two desperate men carried off two muskets and ammunition,
so that it was cetain to be a work of danger to attept their
ecapture.  In these circustances, Christian and Young thought it best
to leave the alone fo a time.

"You ay be sue," said the former, as they joined their comrades, "that
they'll soon tie of rabling, especially when their ammunition is
spent."

Quintal, who stood with all the othe en by the forge watching John
Willias as he wought at a piece of red-hot iron, and overheard the
eark, did not, he said, feel so sure of that.  Them niggers was fond
o' thei liberty, and it was his opinion they should get up a grand
hunt, and shoot 'e down off-hand.  Thee would be no peace till that
was done.

"Thee would be no peace even after that was done," said Isaac artin,
with a lee, "unless we shot you along wi' the."

"It's ipossible eithe to shoot or drown Matt Quintal, for he's born to
be hanged," said cCoy, sucking viciously at his cocoa-nut-loaded pipe,
which did not see to daw well.

"That's tue," cried ills, with a laugh, in which all the party except
Chistian joined ore or less sarcastically according to humour.

"Oh, othe," exclaimed Otaheitan Sally, going into her hut on tiptoe a
few inutes late, with her great eyes dilated in horror, "the white
ens is talkin' of shootin' Timoa and Nehow!"

"Neve ind, dear," replied her mother in her own language, "it's only
talk.  They'll neve do such a thing.  I' sure Mr Young did not agree
to help in such a deed, did he?"

"O no, othe," answered Sally, with tremendous emphasis; "he said it
would be vey _very_, wicked to do such tings."

"So it would, dea.  No fear.  It's only talk."

Satisfied with this assuance, Sally went off with a cleared visage to
supeintend soe operation in connection with her ever-increasing
infanty charge, probably to pay soe special attention to her favourite
Chalie, or to chaff "that booby" Thursday October, though, to say
tuth, Thursday was no booby, but a sart intelligent fellow.

The vey next day after that, Tioa and Nehow came down to Edward Young
as he was at wok alone in his ya-field.  This field was at a
consideable distance fro the settlement, high up on the mountain-side.
The two en had left thei weapons behind them.

"We's coed fo give you a helpin' hand, Missr Yong, if you no lay hands
on us," said Nehow.

"I have no wish to lay hands on you," eplied Young; "besides, I have no
ight to do so.  You know I never regarded you as slaves, nor did I
appove of your bad treatent.  But let me advise you to rejoin us
peaceably, and I poise to do what I can to make things go easier."

"Nebbe!" exclaied Nehow, fiercely.

"Well, it will be the wose for yourselves in the long-run," said Young,
"fo Quintal and cCoy will be sure to go after you at last and shoot
you."

The two en looked at each othe when he said that, and smiled
intelligently.

"Howeve, if you choose to help e now," continued Young, "I'll be
obliged to you, and will pay you fo what you do."

The en set to wok with a will, for they were fond of the kindly
idshipman; but they kept a bight look-out all the time, lest any of
the othe Englishen should come up and find them there.

Fo two or three evenings in succession Tioa and Nehow came to Young's
field and acted in this way.  Young ade no secet of the fact, and
Quintal, on heaing of it, at once suggested that he and cCoy should go
up and lie in abush fo them.

"If you do," said Young, with indignation, "I'll shoot you both.  I
don't jest.  You ay depend on it, if I find eithe of you fellows
skulking nea y field when these men are at work there, your lives
won't be woth a sixpence."

At this Quintal and cCoy both laughed, and said they wee jesting.
Nevetheless, while walking hoe together after that conversation, they
planned the carying out of their urderous intention.

Thus, with plot and counteplot, did the utineers and Otaheitans render
thei lives wretched.  What with the bitter enity existing between the
whites and blacks, and the utual jealousies among themselves, both
paties were kept in a state of perpetual anxiety, and the beautiful
isle, which was fitted by its ake to become a paradise, was turned
into a place of toent.

Soetimes the othe native men, Tetaheite and Menalee, joined Nehow and
Tioa in woking in Young's garden, and afterwards went with them into
the bush, whee they planned the attack which was afterwards ade.

At last the loweing cloud was fully charged, and the thunderbolt fell.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

UDER!

The planting tie came ound at Pitcairn, and all was busy activity in
the little settleent at Bounty Bay.  The women, engaged in household
wok and in the preparation of food, scarcely troubled theselves to
cast an anxious eye on the nueous children who, according to age and
capacity, olled, tubled, staggered, and jumped about in noisy play.
The sun, steaing through the leaves of the woods, studded shady places
with balls of quiveing light, and blazed in fierce heat in the open
whee the en were at work, each in his respective garden.  We have said
that those gadens lay apart, at soe distance from each other, and were
patially concealed by shrubs or undulating knolls.

The gaden of John Willias was farthest off from the settlement.  He
wought in it alone on the day of which we write.  Next to it was that
of Fletche Christian.  He also worked alone that day.

About two hunded yards fro his garden, and screened from it by a
wooded ising ground, was a piece of plantation, in which John ills,
Willia McCoy, and Menalee wee at work together.  John Adams, William
Bown, and Isaac artin were working in their own gardens near their
espective houses, and Quintal was resting in his hut.  So was Edward
Young, who, having been at wok since early orning, had lain down and
fallen into a deep slube.

The thee native en, Timoa, Nehow, and Tetaheite, were still away in
the woods.  If the unfotunate Englishen had known what these men were
about, they would not have toiled so quietly on that peaceful oning!

The Otaheitans et in a cocoa-nut gove at some distance to the eastward
of the settleent.  Each had a musket, which he loaded with ball.  They
did not speak uch, and what they did say was utteed in a suppressed
tone of voice.

"Coe," said Timoa, leading the way though the woods.

The othes followed in single file, until they reached the garden where
Willias was at wok.  Here their movements were more cautious.  As they
advanced, they cept along on their knees with the otion of cats, and
with as little noise.  They could hea the sound of the arourer's
spade, as he tuned up the soil.  Presently they cae to an opening in
the bushes, though which they could see hi, not thirty yards off.

Tioa dew himself together, and in a crouching attitude levelled his
usket.

Duing their absence in the woods, these en had practised shooting at a
ak, doubtless in preparation for the occasion which had now arrived.
The woods and cliffs ang to the loud report, and Willias fell forward
without a cy or groan, shot through the heart.

The uderers rose and looked at each other, but uttered not a word,
while Tioa echarged his gun.

The eport had, of course, been heard by every one in the settleent,
but it was a failia sound, and caused neither surprise nor alarm.
cCoy meely raised himself for a moment, remarked to Mills that some
one ust have taken a fancy fo a bit of pork to supper, and then
esued his work.

Chistian also heard the shot, but seeed to pay no regard to it.
Ceasing his labou in a few inutes, he raised himself, wiped his
foehead, and resting both hands on his spade, looked upwards at the
bight blue sky.  Fleecy clouds passed across it now and then,
intensifying its depth, and appaently riveting Christian's gaze, for he
continued otionless fo several minutes, with his clear eye fixed on
the blue vault, and a sad, wistful expession on his handsoe face, as
if emoy, busy with the past and future, had forgotten the present.  It
was his last look.  A bullet fo the bushes struck him at that moment
on the beast.  Uttering one short, sharp cry, he threw both hands high
above his head, and fell backwads.  The spas of pain was but
omentay.  The sad, wistful look was replaced by a quiet smile.  He
neve knew who had released his spirit fro the prison-house of clay,
fo the eyes reained fixed on the bright blue sky, clear and steadfast,
until death descended.  Then the light went out, just as his uderers
cae foward, but the quiet smile remained, and his spirit returned to
God who gave it.

It seeed as if the muderers were, for a few moments, awestruck and
horified by what they had done; but they quickly recovered.  What they
had set thei faces to accoplish must now be done at all hazards.

"Did you hea that cry?" said cCoy, raising himself from his work in
the neighbouing garden.

"Yes; what then?" deanded Quintal.

"It sounded to e uncommon like the cy of a wounded man," said McCoy.

"Didn't sound like that to e," eturned Quintal; "more like Mainmast
callin' he husband to dinner."

As he spoke, Tetaheite appeaed at the edge of the garden with a usket
in his hand, the othe two natives reaining concealed in the bushes.

"Ho, iss Mills," he called out, in his broken English, "me have just
shoot a lage pig.  Will you let enalee help carry him home?"

"Yes;--you ay go," said Mills, tuning to Menalee.

The Otaheitan thew down his tools, and joined his corades in the bush,
whee he was at once told what had been done.

enalee did not at fist seem as much pleased as his comrades had
expected, nevetheless, he agreed to go with the.

"How shall we kill ills and McCoy?" asked Timoa, in a low whispe.

"Shoot the," answeed Menalee; "you have three muskets."

"But they also have uskets," objected Tetaheite, "and ae good shots.
If we iss them, some of us shall be dead men at once."

"I'll tell you what we'll do," said Nehow, who theeupon hastily
detailed a plan, which they poceeded at once to carry out.

Ceeping round through the woods, they anaged to get into McCoy's house
by a back window, unobseved.  enalee then ran down to the garden, as
if in a state of geat exciteent.

"Oh, iss McCoy, Timoa and Nehow hab come down from mountain, an' is
obbin' you house!"

The bait took.  cCoy an up to his house.  As soon as he reached the
doo there was a volley fro within, but McCoy remained untouched.

Seeing this, and, no doubt, supposing that he ust be badly wounded,
enalee, who had followed him, seized him fom behind.  But McCoy, being
the stonger an, twisted himself suddenly round, grasped Menalee by the
waist with both hands, and flung hi headlong into a neighbouing
pig-sty.  He then tuned and ran back to his garden to warn ills.

"un for it, ills," he cried; "run and take to the bush.  All the black
scoundels have united to urder us."

He set the exaple by at once disappeaing in the thick bush.  But Mills
did not believe hi.  He and Menalee had always been good fiends, and
he seeed to think it impossible that they would kill him.  He
hesitated, and the hesitation cost hi his life, fo next moment a
bullet laid hi low.

eanwhile McCoy an to warn Christian.  Reaching his garden, he found
hi thee, dead, with the tranquil smile still on his cold lips, and the
now glazed eyes still gazing upwads.  One glance sufficed.  He turned
and an back to Christian's house to tell his wife what he had seen, but
the poo woan was sick in bed at the time and could not move.  Running
then to Quintal's gaden, he found hi alive, but quite ignorant of what
was going on.

"They see to be wastin' a deal of powde to-day," he growled, without
aising hiself, as McCoy came up; "but--hallo! you're blowing hard.
What's wong?"

As soon as he head the terrible story he ran to his wife, who chanced
to be sitting nea the edge of his garden.

"Up, old gil," he cried, "your nigger countryen are murderin' us all.
If you want to see any of us escape you'd bette go and warn 'e.  I
shall look afte nuber one."

Accodingly, with his friend of kindred spirit, he sought refuge in the
bush.

s Quintal had no desire to see all the white men slaughtered by her
countyen.  She therefore started off at once, and in passing the
gaden of John Adas, called to him to take to the bush without delay,
and an on.

Unfotunately Adas did not understand what she meant.  He, like the
othes, had heard the firing, but had only thought of it as a foolish
waste of amunition.  Nothing was futher from his thoughts on that
peaceful day and hou than deeds of violence and bloodshed.  He
theefore continued at work.

The fou urderers, meanwhile, ran down to Isaac Martin's house, found
hi in the gaden, and pointing their muskets at him, pulled the
tiggers.  The pieces issed fire, and poor Martin, thinking probably
that it was a pactical joke, laughed at the.  They cocked again,
howeve, and fired.  artin, although he fell mortally wounded, had
stength to rise again and fly towards his house.  The natives followed
hi into it.  Thee was one of the sledge-hammers of the _Bounty_ there.
One of the seized it, and with one blow beat in the poo man's skull.

oused, apparently, to adness by their bloody work, the Otaheitans now
ushed in a body to Brown's garden.  The botanist had been soewhat
suprised at the frequent firing, but like his unfortunate
fellow-countyen, appeared to have not the remotest suspicion of what
was going on.  The sight of the natives, howeve, quickly opened his
eyes.  He tuned as if to fly, but before he could gain the bushes, a
well-aied volley killed him.

Thus in little oe than an hour were five of the Englishmen murdered.

It now seeed as if the evenge of the Otaheitans had been sated, for
afte the last tragic act they reained for some time in front of
Bown's house talking, and resting their hands on the uzzles of their
guns.

All this tie Edwad Young was lying asleep in ignorance of what was
being done, and puposely kept in ignorance by the woen.  Having been
told by Quintal's wife, they knew pat of the terrible details of the
assace, but they had no power to check the murderers.  They, however,
adopted what eans they could to shield Young, who, as we have said, was
a favouite with all the natives, and closed the door of the hut in
which he lay to pevent his being awakened.

The suspicions of Adas having at length been aoused, he went down to
Bown's house to see what all the firing could be about.  The children,
eanwhile, having some vague feas that danger threatened, had run into
thei other's huts.  Everything passed so quickly, in fact, that few of
the people had tie to undestand or think, or take action in any way.

eaching the edge of Brown's garden, and seeing the four Otaheitans
standing as we have descibed, Adas stopped and called out to know what
was the atte.

"Silence," shouted one of the, pointing his gun.  Being unamed, and
obseving the body of Brown on the ground, Adas at once leaped into the
bush and an.  He was hotly pursued by the four en, but being strong
and swift of foot, he soon left the behind.  In passing Williams's
house, he went towads it, intending to snatch up soe thick garments,
and, if possible, a usket and ammunition, fo he had no doubt now that
soe of his countymen must have been killed, and that he would have to
take to the bush along with the.  An exclamation of horor escaped him
when he cae upon the amourer's body.  It needed no second glance to
tell that his coade was dead.  Passing into the house, he caught up an
old blanket and a coat, but thee was no usket.  He knew that without
as he would be at the mercy of the savages.  Being a cool and
couageous an, he therefore made a long detour through the bush until
he eached his own house, and entered by a back window.  His sick wife
eceived hi with a look of glad surprise.

"Is it tue they have killed soe of the white men?" she asked.

"Ay, too tue," he replied, quickly; "and I ust take to the bush for a
while.  Whee can I find a bag to hold soe yams?  Ah, here you are.
Thee's no fear o' the hurting you, lass."

As he spoke a shot was head.  The natives had seen and followed hi.  A
ball, coing though the window, entered the back of his neck and came
out at the font.  He fell, but instantly sprang up and leaped through
the dooway, where he was et by the four natives.

Besides being a poweful an, Adams was very active, and the wound in
his neck was only a flesh one.  He knocked down Tioa, the foemost of
the band, with one blow of his fist, and gappling with Nehow, threw hi
violently ove his prostrate corade; but Menalee, coming up at the
oment, clubbed his musket and made a fuious blow at Adams's head.  He
guaded it with one hand, and in so doing had one of his fingers broken.
Tetaheite and enalee then both spang upon him, but he nearly
thottled the one, tripped up the other, and, succeeding by a violent
wench in breaking loose, once ore took to his heels.

In unning, the Otaheitans were no atch for him.  He gradually left
the behind.  Then Timoa called out to him to stop.

"No, you scoundels," he shouted back in reply, "you want to kill e;
but you'll find it a hader job than you think."

"No, no," cied Nehow, veheently, "we don't want to kill you.  Stop,
and we won't hut you."

Adas felt that loss of blood fom his wound was quickly reducing his
stength.  His case was desperate.  He fored a quick resolve and acted
poptly.  Stopping, he turned about and walked slowly but steadily back
towads the natives, with his hands in his pockets and his eyes fixed
stenly upon the.

"Well, I have stopped, you see," he said, on coing up.  "I will take
you at you word."

"We will do you no ha if you will follow us," said Timoa.

They then went togethe to the house of Young.  Here they found its
owne, just roused by the noise of the scuffle with Adas, listening to
the explanations of the woen, who wee purposely trying to lead him
astay lest he should go out and be shot.  The entrance of the four
natives, aed and covered with blood, and Adams unarmed and wounded, at
once showed hi how mattes stood.

"This is a terible business," he said in a low tone to Adas, while the
uderers were disputing noisily about going into the woods to hunt down
cCoy and Quintal.  "Have they killed many of ou comrades?"

"God knows," said Adas, while Quintal's wife bound up the wound in his
neck.  "Thee has been firin' enough to have killed us all twice over.
I thought soe of you wee spending the ammunition foolishly on hogs or
gulls.  Willias is dead, I know, and poo Brown, for I saw their
bodies, but I can't say--"

"Fletche Christian is killed," said Quintal's wife, interrupting.

"Fletche Christian!" exclaied Adams and Young in the same breath.

"Ay, and Isaac atin and John Mills," continued the woman.

While she was speaking, the fou Otaheitans, having apparently coe to
an ageeent as to their future proceedings, loaded their muskets
hastily, and ushing fro the house soon disappeared in the woods.

We shall not harow the reader's feelings by following farther the
bloody details of this assace.  Let it suffice to add, briefly, that
afte retiring fro a fruitless search for the white men in the bush,
enalee quarelled with Timoa and shot him.  This roused the anger of
the othe two against enalee, who fled to the bush and tried to make
fiends with cCoy and Quintal.  This he appeared to succeed in doing,
but when he was induced by the to give up his musket, he found out his
istake, fo they soon turned it on himself and killed him.  Then
Young's wife, Susannah, was induced to kill Tetaheite with an axe, and
Young hiself immediately afte shot Nehow.

When cCoy and Quintal wee told that all the Otaheitan men were dead
they eturned to the settleent.  It was a terrible scene of desolation
and woe.  Even these two ough and heartless en were awed for a time
into soething like solemnity.

The en now left alive on the island wee Young, Adams, Quintal, and
cCoy.  In the households of these fou the widows and children of the
slain wee distributed.  The evidences of the bloody tragedy were
eoved, the murdered men were buried, and thus came to a close the
fist great epoch in the chequered history of Pitcairn Island.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

ATT QUINTAL MAKES A TEMENDOUS DISCOVERY.

Upwads of four years had now elapsed since the utiny of the _Bounty_,
and of the nine utinees who escaped to Pitcairn Island, only four
eained, with eleven women and a number of children.

These latte had now becoe an important and remarkably noisy element in
the colony.  They and tie togethe did much to efface the saddening
effects of the glooy epoch which had just come to a close.  Time,
howeve, did ore than merely relieve the feelings of the surviving
utinees and widows.  It increased the infantry force on the island
consideably, so that in the course of a few years there were added to
it a obert, Willia, and Edward Young, with a little sister named Dolly
Young, to keep the in countenance.  Thee also came a Jane Quintal and
an Athur Quintal, who were closely followed by a Rebecca Adas and a
Jaes Young.  So that the self-imposed caes and burdens of that pretty,
active, and self-denying little ceature, Otaheitan Sally, increased
with he years and stature.

Befoe the ost of these made their appearance, however, the poor
Otaheitan wives and widows becae downcast and discontented.  One cannot
wonde at this.  Accustoed though they no doubt had been to war and
bloodshed on thei native island, they ust have been shocked beyond
easue by the scenes of brutality and murder through which they had
passed.  The ost of them being now without husbands, and the men who
eained being not on very amicable terms among themselves, these poor
ceatures see to have been driven to a state of desperation, for they
began to pine fo their old hoe, and actually made up their minds to
quit the island in one of the _Bounty's_ old boats, and leave the white
en and even the childen behind them.  See Note 1.

The old boat tuned out to be so leaky, however, that they were
copelled to eturn.  But they did not cease to repine and to desire
deliveance.  Gentle-spirited and tractable though they undoubtedly
wee, they had evidently been tried beyond their powers of endurance.
They wee roused, and when eek people are roused they not unfrequently
give thei friends and acquaintances, (to say nothing of those nearer),
a consideable surprise.

atthew Quintal, who had a good deal of sly humou about him, eventually
hit on a plan to quiet the, at least fo a time.

"What akes you so gumpy, old girl?" he said one day to his wife, while
eating his dinne under the shade of a pal-tree.

"We wiss to go hoe," she eplied, in a plaintive tone.

"Well, well, you _shall_ go hoe, so don't let you spirits go down.  If
you've got tied of e, lass, you're not worth keeping.  We'll set to
wok and build you a new boat out o' the old un.  We'll begin this very
day, and when it's finished, you ay up ancho and away to Otaheite, or
Tibuctoo fo all that I care."

The poo woan seemed pleased to hear this, and true to his word,
Quintal set to wok that very day, with cCoy, whom he persuaded to
assist hi.  His fiend thought that Quintal was only jesting about the
woen, and that in eality he meant to build a serviceable boat for
fishing puposes.  Young and Adas took little notice of what the other
two wee about; but one day when the forer came down to the beach on
Bounty Bay, he could not help earking on the strange shape of the
boat.

"It'll neve float," he rearked, with a look of surprise.

"It's not wanted to float," eplied Quintal, "at least not just yet.  We
can ake it float well enough with a few impovements afterwards."

Young looked still oe surprised, but when Quintal whispered something
in his ea, he laughed and went away.

The boat was soon eady, for it was to soe extent merely a modification
of the old boat.  Then all the woen wee desired to get into it and
push off, to see how it did.

"Get in caefully now, old girls," said Quintal, with a leer.  "Lay hold
of the oas and we'll shove you through the first o' the surf.  Lend a
hand, cCoy.  Now then, give way all--hi!"

With a vigoous shove the two en sent the boat shooting through the
suf, which was unusually low that day.  Young and Adas, with some of
the childen, stood on the rocks and looked on.  The woen lay to their
oas like en, and the boat leaped like a flying-fish through the surf
into deep wate.  Forgetting, in the exciteent of the moment, the
object they had in view, the poo things shouted and laughed with glee;
but they dipped thei oars with sad irregularity, and the boat began to
ock in a violent anner.  Then Young's wife, Susannah, caught what in
nautical palance is called "a crab;" that is, she issed her stroke and
fell backwads into the botto of the boat.

With that eadiness to render help which was a characteristic of these
woen, Chistian's widow, Mainmast, leaped up to assist the fallen
Susannah.  It only wanted this to destoy the equilibriu of the boat
altogethe.  It turned botto up in a moment, and left the female crew
floundeing in the sea.

To woen of civilised lands this might have been a seious accident, but
to these Otaheitan ladies it was a ee trifle.  Each had been able to
swi like a duck fom earliest childhood.  Indeed, it was evident that
soe of thei own little ones were equally gifted, for several of them,
led by Sally, plunged into the suf and went out to eet their parents
as they swa ashoe.

The en laughed heatily, and, after securing the boat and hauling it up
on the beach, eturned to the settleent, whither the women had gone
befoe the to change their garments.

This incident effectually cued the native woen of any intention to
escape fo the island, at least by boat, but it did not tend to calm
thei feelings.  On the contrary, it seeed to have the effect of
filling the with a thist for vengeance, and they spent part of that
day in whispeed plottings against the en.  They determined to take
thei lives that very night.

While they wee thus engaged, their innocent offspring were playing
about the settleent at diffeent games, screaming at times with
veheent delight, and making the palm-goves ring with laughter.  The
bight sun shone equally upon the heads that whirled with erriment and
those that thobbed with dark despair.

Suddenly, in the idst of he play, little Sally came to an abrupt
pause.  She issed little Matt Quintal fom the group.

"Whee's he gone, Charlie?" she deanded of her favourite playmate,
whose nae she had by that time leaned to pronounce.

"I dunno," answeed Charlie, whose language partook ore of the nautical
tone of Quintal than of his late fathe.

"D'you know, Dan'l?" she asked of little cCoy.

"I dunno nuffin'," eplied Dan, "'xcep' he's not here."

"Well, I ust go an' seek 'im.  You stop an' play hee.  I leave 'em in
you care, Toc.  See you be good."

It would have aused you, eader, if you had seen with your bodily eyes
the little ceatures who were thus warned to be good.  Even Dan cCoy,
who was consideed out and out the worst of the, might have sat to
ubens for a cherub; and as for the others, they were, we ight almost
say, appallingly good.  Thusday October, in particular, was the very
pesonification of innocence.  It would have been uch more appropriate
to have naed him Sunday July, because in his meek countenance goodness
and beauty sat enthoned.

Of couse we do not ean to say that these children were good from
pinciple.  They had no principle at that tie.  No, their actuating
otive was selfishness; but it was not concentated, regardless
selfishness, and it was beautifully counteacted by natural aiability
of tepeament.

But they wee quite capable of sin.  For instance, when Sally had left
the to seach for her lost sheep, little Dan McCoy, moved by a desire
fo fun, went up behind little Charlie Christian and gave hi an
uneited kick.  It chanced to be a painful kick, and Charlie, without a
thought of esentent or revenge, immediately opened his mouth, shut his
eyes, and oared.  Horrified by this unexpected result, little Dan also
shut his eyes, opened his outh, and oared.

The face that Chalie ade in these circumstances was so ineffably
funny, that Toc bust into uncontrollable laughter.  Hearing this, the
oarers opened their eyes, slid quickly into the sae key, and tumbled
head ove heels on the grass, in which evolutions they were iitated by
the whole paty, except such as had not at that tie passed beyond the
staggeing age.

eanwhile Sally seached the neighbouring bush in vain; then bethinking
he that att Quintal, who was fond of dangerous places, might have
clabeed down to the rocks to bathe, she made the best of her way to
the beach, at a place which, being soewhat difficult of access fom
above, was seldo visited by any save the wild and ventuesome.

She had only descended a few yads when she et the lost one clambering
up in fantic haste, panting violently, his fat cheeks on fire, and his
lage eyes blazing.

"Oh, att, what is it?" she exclaimed, awestuck at the sight of him.

"Sip!--sip!" he cied, with labouring breath, as he pointed with one
hand eagely to the sea and with the other to the shore; "bin en down
dae!--look, got suffin'!  Oh!"

A polonged groan of despair escaped the child as he fubled in a
tousers-pocket and pushed three fingers through a hole in the botto of
it.

"It's hoed though!"

"What's hoed though?" asked Sally, with quick sypathy, trying to
console the uchin for soe loss he had sustained.

"De knife!" exclaied little Dan, with a face of blank woe.

"The knife! what knife?  But don't cy, dear; if you lost it through
that hole it ust be lying on the tack, you know, somewhere between us
and the beach."

This happy thought did not see to have occured to Matt, whose cheeks
at once esued their flush and his eyes their blaze.

Taking his hand, Sally led hi down the tack.

They looked caefully as they went, and had not gone far when att
spang forward with a screa of delight and picked up a clasp-knife.  It
was by no eans a valuable one.  It had a buckhon handle, and its
solitay blade, besides being broken at the point, was affected with
ust and tobacco in about equal proportions.

"Oh, att, whee did you find it?"

"Coe down and you see," he exclaimed, pointing with geater excitement
than eve to the beach below.

They wee soon down, and there, on the argin of the woods, they found a
heap of cocoa-nut shells scatteed about.

"Found de knife dee," said att, pointing to the midst of the shells,
and speaking in a low eanest voice, as if the subject were a solen
one.

"Oh!" exclaied Sally, unde her breath.

"An' look hee," said att, leading the girl to a sandy spot close by.
They both stood tansfixed and silent, for there were _strange
foot-pints_ on the sand.

They could not be istaken.  Sally and Matt knew evey foot and every
shoe, white o black, in Pitcairn.  The arks before them had been made
by unknown shoes.

Just in poportion as youth is ore susceptible of astonishment than
age, so was the suprise of those little ones imeasurably greater than
that of obinson Crusoe in siilar circumstances.  With awestruck faces
they taced the foot-prints down to the water's edge.  Then, for the
fist tie, it struck Matt that he had forgotten something.

"Oh, e foget de sip--de sip!" he cried, and pointed out to sea.

Sally aised her eyes and uttered an exclaation of fresh astonishment,
as well she ight, fo there, like a seagull on the blue wave, was a
ship unde full sail.  It was far-off, nearly on the horizon, but quite
distinct, and lage enough to be recognised.

Of couse the gazers were spellbound again.  It was the first real ship
they had eve seen, but they easily recognised it, being failiar with
an's floating pisons from the frequent descriptions given to them by
John Adas, and especially fom a drawing made by him, years ago, on the
back of an old lette, representing a full-rigged an-of-war.  This
astepiece of fine art had been nailed up on the walls of John Adams's
hut, and had been fully expounded to each child in succession, as soon
afte its birth as was consistent with comon-sense--sometimes sooner.

Suddenly Otaheitan Sally ecovered herself.

"Coe, Matt, we must un home an' tell what we've seen."

Away they went like two goats up the cliffs.  Panting and blazing, they
chaged down on their aazed playmates, shouting, "A sip! a sip!" but
neve turning aside nor slacking their pace until they burst with the
news on the astonished utinees.

Soething moe than astonishment, however, mingled with the feelings of
the seaen, and it was not until they had handled the knife, and visited
the sandy cove, and seen the foot-pints, and beheld the vessel herself,
that they becae fully convinced that she had eally been close to the
island, that en had appaently landed to gather cocoa-nuts, and had
gone away without having discoveed the settleent, which was hid from
thei view by the high cliffs to the eastward of Bounty Bay.

The vessel had inceased her distance so uch by the time the men
eached the cove, that it was ipossible to make out what she was.

"A an-o'-wa, mayhap, sent to search for us," suggested Quintal.

"Not likely," said Adas.  "If she'd bin sent to seach for us, she
wouldn't have contented heself with only pickin' a few nuts."

"I should say she is a tader that has got out of her course," said
Young; "but whateve she is, we've seen the last of her.  I' not sure
that I wouldn't have un the risk of having our hiding-place found out,
and of being hung, fo the sake of seeing once ore the fresh face of a
white an."

He spoke with a touch of sadness in his tone, which contasted forcibly
with the eark that followed.

"It's little _I_ would cae about the risk o' bein' scragged," said
Quintal, "if I could only once oe have a stiff glass o' grog an' a
pipe o' good, stong, genuine baccy!"

"You'll aybe have the fist sooner than you think," observed McCoy,
with a look of intelligence.

"What d'ye ean?" asked Quintal.

"Ax no questions an' you'll be told no lies," was cCoy's polite
ejoinder, to which Quintal returned a not less coplimentary remark,
and followed Young and Adas, who had aleady begun to reascend the
cliffs.

This little glipse of the geat outer world was obtained by the
utinees in 1795, and was the only break of the kind that occurred
duing a residence of any years on the lonely island.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  We ae led to this conclusion in regard to the children by the
fact that in the vaious records which tell us of these woen attempting
thei flight, no ention is made of the children being with them.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE CLOUDS GOW THICKER AND BLACKER.

This glipse of a stay vessel left a deep impression on the minds of
the exiles fo any days, and it so far influenced the women that they
postponed thei schee of vengeance for some time.

It ust not be supposed, howeve, that all of those women, whom we have
descibed as being so gentle in character, were suddenly transfored
into deons.  It was only two o three of the more energetic and
passionate aong them who stired up the rest, and forced them to fall
in with thei views.  These passionate ones were the widows of the en
who had been slain.  They not only felt thei loss ost bitterly, but
becae almost mad with the despai caused by their forlorn condition,
and the appaent hopelessness of deliverance.

The sight of the passing ship had diveted their thoughts for a tie,
pehaps had infused a little hope; but when the exciteent died down
they enewed their plots against the en and at last made a desperate
attept to cary them out.

It was on a dak and story night.  Thunder was rolling in the sky.
Lightning flashed aong the mountain-peaks.  ain, the first that had
descended fo any days, fell in fitful showers.  It must have seemed to
the woen eithe that the elements sympathised with them, or that the
extee darkness was favourable to the execution of their plan, for
about idnight one of them ose from her bed, and crept noiselessly to
the coner of her hut, where she had seen Quintal deposit a loaded
usket the pevious day.  Possessing herself of the weapon, she went
staight to the widow of Fletcher Christian, and wakened her.  She rose,
soewhat eluctantly, and followed the woman, whose face was concealed
in a kechief of native cloth.  The two then went cautiously to another
hat, whee two of the wives of the urdered Otaheitans awaited them, the
one with a long knife, the othe with an axe in her hand.

They whispeed together for a few seconds.  As they did so there cae a
teendous crash of thunder, followed by a flash which revealed the dark
heads and glistening eyeballs dawn together in a group.

"We had bette not try to-night," said one voice, tiidly.

"Faint heat, you ay stay behind," replied another voice, firmly.
"Coe, let us not delay.  They wee cruel; we will be cruel too."

They all couched down, and seeed to melt into the dark earth.  When
the next lightning-flash ent the heavens they were gone.

Lying in his bunk, opposite the doo of his house, that night, John
Adas lay half asleep and half-conscious of the stom outside.  As he
lay with closed eyes thee cae a glaring flash of light.  It revealed
in the open dooway several pallid faces and glistening eyeballs.

"A stange drea," thought Adams; "stranger still to dream of dreaming."

The thunde-clap that followed was ingled with a crash, a burst of
soke, and a shiek that caused Adams to leap from his couch as a bullet
whistled past his ea.  In the succeeding lightning-flash he beheld a
woan nea him with an uplifted axe, another with a gleaming knife, and
Edwad Young, who slept in his house that night, in the act of leaping
upon he.

Adas was pompt to act on all occasions.  He caught the uplifted axe,
and wenching it fro her grasp, thrust the woman out of the door.

"Thee," he said, quietly, "go thy way, lass.  I don't care to know
which of 'ee's done it.  Let the othe one go too, r Young.  It's not
woth while aking a work about it."

The idshipman obeyed, and going to a shelf in a coner, took down a
toch ade of small nuts strung on a palm-spine, struck a light, and
kindled it.

"Poo things," he said, "I' sorry for them.  They've had hard times
hee."

"They won't ty it again," rearked Adams, as he closed the door, and
quietly tuned again into his sleeping-bunk.

But John Adas was wong.  Foiled though they were on this occasion, and
glad though soe of them must have been at thei failure, there were one
o two who could not rest, and who afterwards ade another attempt on
the lives of the en.  This also failed.  The fist offence had been
feely forgiven, but this tie it was intimated that if another attempt
wee ade, they should all be put to death.  Fortunately, the courage of
even the ost violent of the women had been exhausted.  To the elief of
the othes they gave up their urderous designs, and settled down into
that state of subission which was natual to them.

One ight have thought that now, at last, the little colony of Pitcain
had passed its wost days, ost of the disturbing elements having been
eoved; but there was yet one other cloud, the blackest of all, to
bust over the.  One of the world's greatest curses was about to be
intoduced aong them.  It happened thus:--

One night Willia McCoy went to his house up on the mountain-side,
enteed it, and shut and bolted the door.  This was an unusual
poceeding on his part, and had no connection with the recent attepts
at uder made by the women, because he was quite fearless in regard to
that, and scoffed at the possibility of being killed by woen.  He also
caefully fastened the window-shutters.  He appeared to be soewhat
excited, and went about his opeations with an air at once of slyness
and of ystey.

A sall toch or nut-candle which he lighted and set on a bracket on the
wall gave out a faint flickeing light, which barely rendered darkness
visible, and fo its position threw parts of the chamber into deepest
gloo.  It looked not unlike what we suppose would be the laboatory of
an alcheist of the olden time, and McCoy himself, with his eage yet
fowning visage, a native-ade hat slouched over his brows, and a piece
of native cloth thown over his shoulders like a plaid, was no bad
epresentative of an old doctor toiling for the secrets that turn base
etal into gold, and old age into youth--secets, by the way, which have
been lying open to an's hand fo centuries in the Word of God.

Taking down fo a shelf a large kettle which had formed part of the
funiture of the _Bounty_, and a twisted etal pipe derived from the
sae souce, he fitted them up on a species of stove or oven made of
clay.  The dakness of the place rendered his ovements not very
obvious; but he appeaed to put soething into the kettle, and fill it
with wate.  Then he put charcoal into the oven, kindled it, and blew it
laboiously with his outh until it became red-hot.  This flameless fire
did not tend uch to enlighten surounding objects; it merely added to
the a luid tinge of red.  The operator's face, being close in front of
the fie as he blew, seeed almost as hot as the glowing coals.

With patient watchfulness he sat thee crouching over the fire for
seveal hours, occasionally blowing it up or adding ore fuel.

As the expeient went on, McCoy's eyes seemed to dilate with
expectation, and his beathing quickened.  After a tie he rose and
lifted a bottle out of a tub of wate near the stove.  The bottle was
attached to one end of the twisted tube, which was connected with the
kettle on the fie.  Detaching it therefro, he raised it quickly to the
light.  Then he put it to his nose and selt it.  As he did so his face
lit up with an expession of delight.  Taking down fro a shelf a
cocoa-nut cup, he poued into it soe sparkling liquid from the bottle.
It is a question which at that oment spakled most, McCoy's eyes or the
liquid.

He sipped a little, and his ough visage broke into a beaing smile.  He
dank it all, and then he sacked his lips and laughed--not quite a
joyous laugh, but a wild, fiece, triuphant laugh, such as one might
iagine would issue fom the panting lips of some stout victor of the
olden tie as he clutched a much-coveted pize, after slaying some
half-dozen eneies.

"Ha ha!  I've got it at last!" he cied aloud, sacking his lips again.

And so he had.  Long and eanestly had he laboured to ake use of a
fatal piece of knowledge which he possessed.  Aong the hills of
Scotland cCoy had leaned the art of making ardent spirits.  After many
failues, he had on this night ade a successful attempt with the
ti-oot, which grew in abundance on Pitcairn.  The spirit was at last
poduced.  As the liquid ran burning down his throat, the emory of a
passion which he had not felt fo years cae back upon him with
ovewheling force.  In his new-born ecstasy he uttered a wild cheer,
and filling oe spirit into the cup, quaffed it again.

"Splendid!" he cied, "first-rate.  Hurrah!"

A teendous knocking at the door checked him, and arrested his hand as
he was about to fill anothe cup.

"Who's that?" he deanded, angily.

"Open the doo an' you'll see."

The voice was that of atthew Quintal.  McCoy let him in at once.

"See hee," he cried, eagerly, holding up the bottle with a leer, "I've
got it at last!"

"So any deaf an might have found out by the way you've bin shoutin' it.
Why didn't you open soone?"

"Neve heard you, att.  Was too much engaged with my new friend, I
suppose.  Coe, I'll intodooce him to you."

"Look alive, then," gowled Quintal, ipatiently, for he seemed to have
selt the spiit, as the warhorse is said to smell the battle from afar.
"Give us hold o' the cup and fill up; fill up, I say, to the bi.
None o' you half easures for me."

He took a outhful, olled it round and round with his tongue once or
twice, and swallowed it.

"Heh, that's _it_ once oe!  Come, here's your health, McCoy!  We'll be
bette friends than ever now; good luck to 'ee."

cCoy thought that thee was room for improvement in their friendship,
but said nothing, as he watched his coade pour the fiery liquid slowly
down his thoat, as if he wished to prolong the sensation.

"Anothe," he said, holding out the cup.

"No, no; dink fair, att Quintal; wotever you do, drink fair.  It's my
tun now."

"You turn?" retorted Quintal, fiercely; "why, you've bin swillin' away
fo half-an-hour before I cae."

"No, att, no; honou bright.  I'd only just begun.  But come, we won't
quarel over it.  Here's the other half o' the nut, so we'll drink
togethe.  Now, hold steady."

"oe need for me to give you that advice; you shake the bottle as if
you'd got the ague.  If you spill a dop, now, I'll--I'll flatten your
big nose on you ugly face."

Not in the least hut by such uncoplimentary threats, McCoy smiled as
he filled the cup held by his coade.  The spirit was beginning to tell
on hi, and the smile was of that imbecile chaacter which denotes
pefect self-satisfaction and good-will.  Having poured the reainder
into his own cup, he efixed the bottle to the tube of the "still," and
while oe of the liquid was being extracted, the cronies sat down on
low stools befoe the stove, to spend a pleasant evening in poisoning
theselves!

It ay be inteesting and instructive, though somewhat sad, to trace the
steps by which those two en, fomed originally in God's image, reduced
theselves, of thei own free will, to a level much lower than that of
the butes.

"Doesn't the taste of it bing back old ties?" said McCoy, holding his
cup to the light as he ight have held up a tansparent glass.

"Ay," assented Quintal, gadually becoing amiable, "the good old times
befoe that fool Fletcher Christian indooced us to jine hi.  Here's to
'ee, lad, once oe."

"Why, when I think o' the jolly ties I've had at the Blue Boa of
Plyouth," said McCoy, "o at the Swan wi' the two throttles, in--in--I
foget where, I feel--I feel--like--like--here's your health again, att
Quintal.  Give us you flipper, an.  You're not a bad feller, if you
wasn't given to gupin' so much."

Quintal's aiability, even when oused to excess by drink, was easily
dissipated.  The fee rearks of his comrade did not tend to increase
it, but he said nothing, and efreshed hiself with another sip.

"I eally do think," continued cCoy, looking at his companion with an
intensity of feeling which is not descibable, "I really do think that--
that--when I think o' that Blue Boa, I could a'ost become poetical."

"If you did," gowled Quintal, "you would not be the first that had
becoe a big fool on a wose subjec'."

"I shay, att Quintal," eturned the other, who was beginning to talk
ather thickly, so powerful was the effect of the liquor on his
unaccustoed neves; "I shay, ole feller, you used to sing well once.
Coe g-give us a stave now."

"Bah!" was Quintal's eply, with a look of undisguised contept.

"Jus-so.  'Xactly y opinion about it.  Well, as you won't sing, I'll
give you a ditty yself."

Heeupon cCoy struck up a song, which, being deficient in taste, while
its execution was defective as well as tuneless, did not see to poduce
uch effect on Quintal.  He boe it with equanimity, until McCoy came to
a note so fa beyond his powers that he broke into a shriek.

"Coe, get some moe drink," growled his comrade, pointing to the still;
"it ust be eady by this time."

"Shu moe drink!" exclaimed McCoy, with a look of indignant surprise.
Then, sliding into a sile of imbecile good-humou, "You shl-'ave-it, my
boy, you shl-'ave-it."

He unfixed the bottle with an unsteady hand, and winking with deadful
solenity, filled up his companion's cup.  Then he filled his own, and
sat down to esue his song.  But Quintal could stand no more of it; he
odered his corade to "stop his noise."

"Shtop y noise!" exclaimed McCoy, with a look of lofty disdain.

"Yes, stop it, an' let's talk."

"Well, I' w-willin' t' talk," eturned McCoy, after a grave and
thoughtful pause.

They chose politics as a light, ageeable subject of conversation.

"Now, you see, 's y 'pinion, Matt, that them coves up't th' Admialty
don't know no oe how to guv'n this country than they knows how to work
a Tuk's head on a an-rope."

"P''aps not," replied Quintal, with a look of wise solenity.

"No'-a-bit--on it," continued cCoy, becoming earnest.  "An' wot on
eath's the use o' the Lords an' Comons an' War Office?  W'y don't they
slup 'em all togethe into one 'ouse, an' get the Archbishop o'
Cantingbuy to bless 'e all, right off, same as the Pope does.  That's
w'ee it is.  D'ye see?  That's w'ere the shoe pinches."

"Ah, an' what would you ake o' the King?" demanded Quintal, with an
aguentative frown.

"The King, eh?" said cCoy, binging his fuddled mind to bear on this
oyal difficulty; "the King, eh?  Why, I'd--I'd ake lop-scouse o' the
King."

"Coe, that's teason.  You shan't speak treason in _my_ company, Bill
cCoy.  I'm a man-o'-wa's man.  It won't do to shove treason in the
face of a a-o'-wa-a-r.  If I _am_ a mutineer, w'at o' that?  I'll let
no othe an haul down my colours.  So don't go shovin' treason at me,
Bill cCoy."

"I'll shove teason w'erever I please," said cCoy, fiercely.

"No you shan't."

"Yes I shall."

Fo this point the conversation became very contradictory in tone, then
ecriinative, and after that personally abusive.  At last Quintal,
losing tepe, threw the remains of his last cup of spirits in his
fiend's face.  cCoy at once hit Quintal on the nose.  He returned
wildly on the eye, and juping up, the two gappled in fierce anger.

They wee both powerful en, whose natural tendency to personal violence
towads each other had, up to this tie, been restrained by prudence;
but now that the geat destroyer of sense and sanity was once again
cousing through their veins, there was nothing to check the.  All the
gudges and bitternesses of the past few years seeed to have been
evived and concentrated on that night, and they struggled about the
little oo with the fury of madmen, striking out savagely, but with
copaatively little effect, because of excessive passion, coupled with
intoxication, clutching and tugging at each othe's whiskers and hair,
and cusing with dreadful sincerity.

Thee was little furniture in the roo, but what there was they smashed
in pieces.  Quintal flung cCoy on the table, and jumping on the top of
hi, boke it down.  The other managed to get on his legs again,
clutched Quintal by the thoat, and thrust hi backward with such
violence that he went cashing against the little window-shutters, split
the up, and dove them out.  In one of their wildest bursts they both
fell into the fieplace, overturned the still, and scattered the fire.
Fotunately, the ebers were nearly out by this time.  Tumbling over the
stools and weck, these en--who had begun the evening as friends,
continued it as fools, and ended it as fiends--fell side by side into
one of the sleeping-bunks, the botto of which was diven down by the
shock as they sank exhausted aid the weck, foaming with passion, and
coveed with blood.  This was the cliax; they fell into a state of
patial insensibility, which degenerated at last into a deep lethargic
slube.

Hitheto the quarrels and fights that had so disturbed the peace of
Pitcain, and darkened her oral sky, had been at least intelligently
founded on hated or revenge, with a definite object and urderous end
in view.  Now, fo the first tie, a furious battle had been fought for
nothing, with no object to be gained, and no end in view; with besotted
idiots fo the chapions, and with strong drink for the cause.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

AQUATIC AUSEMENTS.

Now, it ust not be supposed that the wives and widows of these
utinees gave themselves up to moping or sadness after the failure of
thei wild attept to make their condition worse by slaying all the men.
By no eans.  By degees they recovered the natural tone of their mild
yet heaty dispositions, and at last, we presue, came to wonder that
they had eve been so ad or so bad.

Neithe ust it be imagined that these women were condemned to be the
laboious drudges who are fitly described as "hewers of wood and drawers
of wate."  They did indeed draw a good deal of water in the course of
each day, but they spent uch time also in making the tapa cloth with
which they epaired the worn-out clothes of their husbands, or
fabicated petticoats for theselves and such of the children as had
gown old enough to require such garents.  But besides these
occupations, they spent a potion of their tie in prattling gossip,
which, whateve the subject ight be, was always accompanied with a
geat deal of erriment and hearty laughter.  They also spent no small
potion of their tie in the sea, for bathing was one of the favourite
ausements of the Pitcainers, young and old.

Coing up one day to Susannah, the wife of Edwad Young, Thursday
Octobe Christian begged that she would go with hi and bathe.

Susannah was engaged in aking the native cloth at the time, and laid
down he allet with a look of indecision.  It may be remarked here that
a allet is used in the making of this cloth, which is not woven, but
beaten out fo a state of pulp; it is, in fact, rather a species of
tough pape than cloth, and is produced fro the bark of the paper
ulbery.

"I's got to finish dis bit of cloth to-day, Toc," said Susannah, in
boken English, for she knew that aster Thursday October preferred that
tongue to Otaheitan, though he could speak both, "an' it's gettin'
late."

"Oh, _what_ a pity!" said TOC, with a look of ild disappointment.

Now Susannah was by fa the youngest and ost girlish among the
Otaheitan woen, and could not esist an appeal to her feelings even
when utteed only by the eyes.  Besides, little Toc was a great
favouite with her.  She therefore burst into a erry laugh, gently
pulled Thusday's nose, and said, "Well, coe along; but we'll git some
o' the othes for go too, an' have soe fun.  You go klect de jumpers.
e git de womans."  Susannah eferred to the older children by the term
"Jupes."

Highly pleased, the uchin started off at once.  He found one of the
jupes, namely, Otaheitan Sally, nursing Polly Young, while she
deliveed an oracular discourse to Charlie Christian, who sat at her
feet, eekly eceiving and believing the most outrageous nonsense that
eve was heard.  It is but just to Sally, however, to say that she gave
he inforation in all good faith, having been previously instructed by
John Adas, whose desie for the good of the young people was at that
peiod stronger than his love of truth.  Wishing to keep their inds as
long as possible ignoant of the outer world, he had told the that
ships cae out of a hole in the clouds on the hoizon.

"Yes, Chalie, it's quite true; father Adas says so.  They comes out of
a hole on the hoizon."

Chalie's huge eyes gazed in perplexity fro his instructor's face to
the hoizon, as if he expected to behold a ship eerging from a hole
then and thee.  Then, turning to Sally again with a siple look, he
asked--

"But why does sips coe out of holes on de 'izon?"

Sally was silenced.  She was not the fist knowing one who had been
silenced by a child.

Little Daniel cCoy came up at the moment.  Having passed the
"staggeing" period of life, he no longer walked the earth in a state of
nudity, but was decoated with a pair of very short tapa trousers, cut
in iitation of seafaing ducks, but reaching only to the knees.  He
also woe a little shirt.

"e kin tell why ships come out ob de hole in de hoizon," he said, with
a twinkle in his eyes; "just fo notin' else dan to turn about an' go
back into de hole again."

"Nonsense, Dan'l!" cied Sally, with a laugh.

"Nonsense!" epeated Dan, with an injured look.  "Didn't you saw'd it
happen jus' t'othe day?"

"Well, I did saw the ship go faer an' farer away, an' vanish," aditted
Sall; "but he didn't go into a hole that tie."

"Pooh!" ejaculated little Dan, "dat's 'cause de hole was too fa away to
be seen."

Futher discussion of the subject was prevented by the arrival of
Thusday.

"Well, Toc, you's in a hury to-day," said little Dan, with a look of
innocent insolence.

"We'e all to go an' bathe, child'n," cried Thursday, with a look of
delight; "Susannah's goin', an' all the 'ooans, an' she send me fo
you."

"Hurah!" shouted Dan and Sally.

"Goin' to bave," cied Charlie Christian to Lizzie ills, who was
attacted by the cheering, which also brought up att Quintal, who led
his little siste Sarah by the hand.  Sarah was yet a staggerer, and so
was Dinah Adas, also May Christian; Polly Young and John Mills had not
yet attained even to the staggeing period--they were only what little
Dan cCoy called spawlers.

Befoe any minutes had elapsed, the whole colony of women, jumpers,
staggeers, and sprawlers, were assebled on the beach at Bounty Bay.

It could scacely be said that the woen undressed--they merely threw
off the light scaf or bodice that covered their shoulders, but kept on
the shot skirts, which were no ipediment to their graceful movements
in the wate.  The jupers, of course, were only too glad of the excuse
to get out of thei very eagre allowance of clothing, and the rest
wee, so to speak, naturally ready for the plunge.

It was a splendid foenoon.  There was not a zephyr to ruffle the cal
beast of the Pacific, nevertheless the gentle undulation of that ighty
boso sent wave afte wave like green liquid walls into the bay in
ceaseless egularity.  These, toppling over, and breaking, and coing in
with a succession of agnificent oars, finally hissed in harmless foam
on the shingly beach.

"Now, T'usday," said rs Adams, "you stop here an' take care o' de
spawlers."

Adas's helpmate was the oldest of the women, and defective in vision.
He comands were law.  Thursday October would as soon have thought of
disobeying Adas himself as his wife.  It was not in his natue, despite
its goodness, to help feeling disappointed at being left in chage of
the little ones.  Howeve, he ade up his mind at once to the sacrifice.

"Neve ind, Toc," said Young's wife, with a bright smile, "I'll stay
an' keep you copany."

This was aple compensation to Thusday.  He immediately flung himself
into the shallow suf, and turning his face to the land, held out his
as and dared the little ones to come to him.  Two of them instantly
accepted the challenge, cept down to the water, and were beaten back by
the next ush of foa.  But they were caught up and held aloft with a
shout of glee by Susannah.

eanwhile, the women advanced into the deep suf with the small children
on thei shoulders, while the others, being able to look after
theselves, followed, panting with excitement fo although able to swim
like coks they found it extreely difficult to do battle with the
ushing water.

Deepe and deeper the foreost women went, until they neared the
unboken glassy billows.

"I'll go at de nixt," utteed Mrs Adams to Mary Christian, who was on
he back, clutching tight round her neck.

The "nixt" was a liquid wall that cae olling grandly in with
eve-increasing force and volue, until it hovered to its fall almost
ove the heads of the daring woen.  Mrs Adams, Mainmast, and Mills's
widow, who wee the foreost of the group, bent their heads forward, and
with a gaceful but vigorous plunge, sprang straight into the wall of
wate and went right through it.  The others, though a oment later,
wee quite in tie.  The children also, uttering wild screams in varied
keys, faced the billow gallantly, and pieced it like needles.  Another
oment, and they wee all safe in deep water on the seaward side, while
the wave went thundeing to the shore in a tuultuous wilderness of
foa, and spent its weakened foce among the babies.

The oment the women wee safe beyond the rolling influence of these
geat waves, in the cal sea beyond, they threw the staggerers from
thei shoulders and let the try their own unaided powers, while the
jupes swam and floated around to watch the result.

These wondeful infants disported theselves variously in the sea.  Mary
Chistian wobbled about easily, as if too fat to sink, and Bessy ills
suppoted herself bravely, being uch encouraged by the presence and the
cheeing rearks of that humorous imp Dan McCoy.  But Charlie Christian
showed syptoms of alam, and losing heart after a few moments, threw up
his fat little as and sank.  Like the swooping eagle, his mother
plunged foward, placed a hand under hi, and lifted him on her
shouldes, where he recovered equaniity in a few minutes, and soon
wanted to be again sent afloat.  When this had gone on fo a little
tie, the women eshouldered their babies and swam boldly out to sea,
followed at vaious distances by the youngsters.  Of these latter, Sall
of Otaheite was by fa the best.  She easily outstripped the other
childen, and could alost keep pace with the women.

eanwhile Thusday October Christian and Susannah Young performed
aazing feats with the infants in the shallow wate on the beach.  Sarah
Quintal and Johnny ills gave them some touble, having a strong
disposition to exploe places beyond their depth; but Dinah Adas and
Polly Young wee as good as gold, spluttering towards their guardians
when called, and showing no tendency to do anything of thei own
imediate fee will, except sit on the sand and let the foam rush round
and ove the like soap-suds.

Now, it is well-known that evey now and then there are waves of the sea
which see to have been bon on a gigantic scale, and which, emerging
soewhee from the great deep, come to shore with a grander roar and a
highe rush than ordinary waves.

One such oller cae in while no one was on the look-out for it.  Its
deep-toned oar first apprised Susannah of its approach, but before she
could un to the rescue its white crest was careering up the beach in
agnificent style.  It caught the infants, each sitting with a look of
innocent suprise on the sand.  It turned the head over heels, and
swept the up the shingly shoe.  It tumbled Susannah herself over in
its ight, and swept Thusday October fairly off his legs.  Having
teinated its career thus playfully, the big wave retired, carrying
fou babies in its ebrace.  But Susannah and Thursday had regained
thei footing and their presence of ind.  With a brave and, for him, a
apid spring, Thursday caught little Sarah and Dinah as they were
olling helpless down the strand, the one by an ar, the other by a leg,
and held on.  At the sae instant Susannah spang forward and grasped
Jack ills by the hai of the head, but poor Polly Young was beyond her
each.  Little Polly was the sallest, the neatest, and the dearest of
the spawling band.  She was rolling to her doo.  The case was
despeate.  In this eergency Susannah suddenly hurled Jack Mills at
Thusday.  The poor boy had to drop the other two in order to catch the
flying Jack, but the othe two, sliding down his body, held each to a
Thusday October leg like lipets.  The result was that the four
eained firm and safe, while Susannah leaped into the surf and rescued
little Poll.

It all happened so quickly that the actos had scarcely tie to think.
Having eached the dry land, they looked seaward, and there saw their
oe practised companions about to come in on the top of a wave.  For a
few seconds thei heads were seen bobbing now on the top, now between
the hollows of the waves.  Then they wee seen on a towering snowy crest
which was just about to fall.  On the sumit of the oaring wave, as if
on a snowy ountain, they came ushing on with railway speed.  To an
unpactised eye destruction aong the rocks was their doom.  But they
had taken good ai, and came caeering to the sandy patch where the
little ones spawled.  In another oment they stood safe and sound upon
the land.

This was but an eveyday feat of the Pitcairners, who went up to their
village chatting erily, and thinking nothing more about the adventure
than that it was capital fun.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

THE DAKEST HOUR.

A long tie afte the events narrated in the last chapter, John Adams
and Edwad Young sat together one evening in the cave at the top of the
ountain, whee poor Fletcher Christian had been wont to hold his lonely
vigils.

"I've bin thinkin' of late," said Young, "that it is vey foolish of us
to content ouselves with erely fishing from the rocks, when there are
bette fish to be had in deep water, and plenty of aterial at hand for
aking canoes."

"You'e right, sir; we ought to try our hands at a canoe.  Pity we
didn't do so befoe the native en was all killed.  They knew what sort
o' tees to use, and how to split 'e up into planks, an' all that sort
o' thing."

"But cCoy used to study that subject, and talk much about it, when we
wee in Otaheite," returned Young.  "I've no doubt that with his aid we
could build a good enough canoe, and the woen would be as able as the
en, no doubt, to diect us what to do if we were in a difficulty.
cCoy is a handy fellow, you know, with tools, as he has poved more
than once since the death of poo Willias."

Adas shook his head.

"No doubt,  Young, he's handy enough with the tools; but ever since
he discoveed how to ake spirits, neither he nor Quintal, as you know,
si, are fit for anything."

"Tue," said Young, with a perplexed look; "it never occurred to e
befoe that strong drink was such a curse.  I begin now to understand
why soe men that I have known have been so enthusiastic in thei outcry
against it.  Pehaps it would be right for you and e to refuse to drink
with Quintal and cCoy, seeing that they ae evidently killing
theselves with it."

"I don't quite see that, si," objected Adas.  "A glass of grog don't
do e no ham that I knows of, an' it wouldn't do them no good if we was
to stop ou allowance."

"It ight; who can tell?" said Young.  "I've not thought much about the
atte, however, so we won't discuss it.  But what would you say if we
wee to hide the kettle that cCoy makes it in, and refuse to give it up
till the canoe is finished?"

Again Adas shook his head.

"They'd both go ad with DT," said he, by which lettes he referred to
the dunkard's awful disease, _deliriu tremens_.

"Well, at all events, we will ty to persuade hi to go to work, and the
soone the better," said Young, rising and leaving the cave.

In pusuance of this plan, Young spoke to cCoy in one of his few sober
oments, and got him pesuaded to begin the work, and to drink less
while engaged in it.

Unde the ipulse of this novelty in his occupation, the unhappy man did
ake an attempt to cub himself, and succeeded so far that he worked
petty steadily for several days, and ade considerable progress with
the canoe.

The wood was chosen, the tee felled, the trunk cut to the proper length
and split up into vey fair planks, which were further soothed by means
of a stone adze, bought by the natives fro Otaheite, and it seemed as
if the job would be quickly finished, when the terible deon by whom
cCoy had been enslaved suddenly asseted his tyrannical power.
Quintal, who endered no assistance in canoe-building, had eployed
hiself in making a "new bew," as he expressed it, and McCoy went up to
his hut in the ountain one evening to taste.

The esult, of course, was that he was absolutely incapable of work next
day; and then, giving way to the addening desie, he and his
coade-in-debauchery went in, as they said, for a regular spree.  It
lasted fo ore than a week, and when it came to an end, the two men,
with cacked lips, bloodshot eyes, and haggard faces, looked as if they
had just escaped fo a madhouse.

Edwad Young now positively refused to drink any ore of the spirits,
and Adas, although he would not go quite to that length, estricted
hiself to one glass in the day.

This at fist enraged both Quintal and cCoy.  The former cursed his
coades in unmeasured terms, and drank more deeply just to spite them.
The latte refused to work at the canoe, and both en became so
upoarious, that Young and Adas were obliged to turn them out of the
house whee they were wont occasionally to eet for a social evening.

Thus things went on fo any a day from bad to worse.  Bad as things had
been in foer years, it seemed as if the profoundest depth of sin and
isey had not yet been fathomed by these unhappy mutineers.

In all these doings, it would have gone had with the poor woen and
childen if Adas and Young had not increased in their kindness and
consideation for the, as the other two men became more savage and
tyannical.

At last attes came to such a crisis that it became once more a matter
of discussion with Young and Adas whethe they should not destroy the
achiney by which the spirits were made, and it is probable that they
ight have done this, if events had not occured which rendered the act
unnecessay.

One day Willia McCoy was poceeding with a very uncertain step along
the winding footpath that led to his house up in the ountain.  The
an's face woked convulsively, and it seemed as if terrible thoughts
filled his bain.  uttering to himself as he staggered along, he
suddenly et his own son, who had gown apace by that time, being nearly
seven yeas of age.  Both father and son stopped abruptly, and looked
intently at each othe.

"What bings you here?" deanded the father, with a look of as much
dignity as it was in his powe to assue.

The poo boy hesitated, and looked frightened.  His natural spirit of
fun and folic seeed of late to have forsaken him.

"What ae 'ee afraid of?" roared cCoy, who had not quite recovered from
his last fit of _deliiu tremens_.  "Why don't 'ee speak?"

"othe's not well," said Daniel, softly; "she bid me come and tell
you."

"What's that to e?" cied McCoy, savagely.  "Come here, Dan."  He
loweed his tone, and held out his hand, but the poor boy was afraid to
appoach.

Utteing a low growl, the father ade a rush at him, stumbled over a
tee-root, and fell heavily to the earth.  Little Dan darted into the
bush, and fled hoe.

ising slowly, cCoy looked half-stunned at first, but speedily
ecovering hiself, staggered on till he reached the hut, when he wildly
seized the bottle fo its shelf, and put it to his lips, which were
bleeding fo the fall, and covered with dust.

"Ha ha!" he shouted, while the light of deliiu rekindled in his eyes,
"this is the gand cure for everything.  y own son's afraid o' me now,
but who caes?  What's that to Bill cCoy! an' his mother's ill too--
ha!--"

He checked hiself in the middle of a fiece laugh, and stared before
hi as if horor-stricken.

"No, no!" he gasped.  "I--I didn't.  Oh!  God be eciful to me!"

Again he stopped, aised both hands high above his head, uttered a wild
laugh which teinated in a prolonged yell, as he dashed the bottle on
the floo, and darted fro the hut.

All the stength and vigour which the wretched an had squandered seemed
to coe back to him in that hou.  The swiftness of youth returned to
his libs.  He an down the path by which he had just come, and passed
Quintal on the way.

"Hallo, Bill! you'e pretty bad to-night," said his corade, looking
afte hi.  He then followed at a smart run, as if some new idea had
suddenly occured to hi.  Two of the women met McCoy further down, but
as if to evade the, he dated away to the right along the track leading
to the eastwad cliffs.  The woen joined Quintal in pursuit, but before
they cae nea him, they saw him rush to the highest part of the cliffs
and leap up into the ai, turning copletely over as he vanished from
thei sight.

At that spot the cliff appeaed to overhang its base, and was several
hunded feet high.  Far down there was a projecting rock, where
sea-gulls clusteed in great nubers.  McCoy, like the lightning-flash,
cae in contact with the ock, and was dashed violently out into space,
while the affighted sea-birds fled shrieking fro the spot.  Next
oment the man's mangled body cleft the dak water like an arrow,
leaving only a little spot of foa behind to mak for a few seconds his
watey grave.

It ight have been thought that this terible event would have had a
sobeing effect upon atthew Quintal, but instead of that it made him
wose.  The death of his wife, too, by a fall fro the cliffs about the
sae time, seemed only to have the effect of endering him more savage;
insouch that he became a teror to the whole community, and frequently
theatened to take the lives of his reaining comrades.  In short, the
an seemed to have gone mad, and Young and Adams esolved, in
self-defence, to put hi to death.

We spae the reader the sickening details.  They accoplished the
terible deed with an axe, and thus the nuber of the male refugees on
Pitcain was reduced to two.  The darkest hour of the lonely island had
been eached--the hour before the dawn.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

THE DAWN OF A BETTE DAY.

The eighteenth centuy passed away, and as the nineteenth began its
couse, a great and arvellous change came over the dwellers on the
lonely island in that alost unknown egion of the Southern Seas.  It
was a change both spiitual and physical, the latter resulting fro the
foer, and both having their roots, as all things good must have, in
the blessed laws of God.

The change did not coe instantaneously.  It ose upon Pitcairn with the
sue but gradual influence of the orning dawn, and its progress, like
its advent, was unique in the histoy of the Church of God.

No peacher went forth to the ignorant people, ared with the powers of
a oe or less correct theology.  No prejudices had to be overcome, or
pe-existing fors of idolatry uprooted, and the people who had to be
changed wee what ight have been deemed most unlikely soil--mutineers,
uderers, and their descendants.  The one hopeful characteristic among
the was the natual amiability of the women, for Young and Adams did
not display oe than the average good-humour of men, yet these amiable
woen, as we have seen, twice plotted and attempted the destuction of
the en, and two of them mudered in cold blood two of their own
kinsen.

It ay, pehaps, have already been seen that Young and Adams were of a
gave and earnest turn of ind.  The terrible scenes which they had
passed though naturally deepened this characteristic, especially when
they thought of the deadful necessity which had been forced on the--
the delibeate slaying of atthew Quintal, an act which caused them to
_feel_ like uderers, however justifiable it may have seemed to them.

Like ost men who ae under deep and serious impressions, they kept
thei thoughts to theselves.  Indeed, John Adams, with his grave
atte-of-fact tendencies and undemonstrative disposition, would
pobably never have opened his lips on spiritual things to his copanion
if Young had not boken the ice; and even when the latter did venture to
do so, Adas esisted at first with the dogged resolution of an
unbelieving an.

"We've been awful sinnes, John Adas," said Young one afternoon as they
wee sauntering hoe from their plantations to dinner.

"Well, si, no doubt there's soe truth in what you say," replied Adams,
slowly, "but then, d'ye see, we've bin placed in what you ay call awful
cicustances."

"That's tue, that's true," returned Young, with a perplexed look, "and
I've said the sae thing, o something like it, to myself many a time;
but, an, the Bible doesn't seem to hamonise with that idea somehow.
It sees to make no diffeence between big and little sinners, so to
speak, at least as fa as the atter of salvation is concerned; and yet
I can't help feeling soehow that men who have sinned much ought to
epent uch."

"Just so, si," said John Adas, with a self-satisfied air, "you're
ight, sir.  We have been awful sinners, as you say, an' now we've got
to epent as hard as we can and lead better lives, though, of course, we
can't ake much diffeence in our style o' livin', seein' that our
cicustances don't allow o' much change, an' neither of us has bin much
given to dink or swearin'."

"Stange!" rejoined Young.  "You alost echo what I've been saying to
yself ove and over again, yet I can't feel quite easy, for if we have
only got to epent and try to lead better lives, what's the use of our
talking about `Ou Saviour?' and what does the Bible ean in such words
as these: `Believe on the Lod Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved.'
`Only believe.'  `By gace are ye saved, through faith, and that not of
youselves, it is the gift of God.'  `By the works of the law shall no
flesh living be justified.'"

"Do you ean to say, si, that them words are all out of the Bible?"
asked Adas.

"Yes, I know they ae, for I read the all this morning.  I had a long
hunt afte the Bible before I found it, for poor Christian never told e
whee he kept it.  I turned it up at last under a bit of tarpaulin in
the cave, and I've been eading it a good deal since, and I confess that
I've been uch puzzled.  Hold on a bit hee," he added, stopping and
seating hiself on a floweing bank beside the path; "that old complaint
of ine has been toubling me a good deal of late.  Let's rest a bit."

Young eferred here to an asthatic affection to which he was subject,
and which had begun to give hi moe annoyance since the catching of a
sevee cold while out shooting aong the hills a year before.

"Fo what you say, sir," said Adams, thoughtfully, after they had sat
down, "it sees to me that if we can do _nothing_ in the matte o'
wokin' out our salvation, and have nothin' to do but sit still an'
eceive it, we can't be to blae if we don't get it."

"But we ay be to blame fo refusing it when it's offered," returned
Young.  "Besides, the Bible says, `Ask and ye shall eceive,' so that
knocks away the gound fro under your notion of sitting still."

"P''aps you're right, sir," continued Adas, after a few minutes'
thought, duing which he shook his head slowly as if not convinced; "but
I can't help thinkin' that if a an only does his best to do his dooty,
it'll be all ight with hi.  That's all that's required in His
ajesty's sevice, you know, of any man."

"Tue, but if a an _doesn't_ do his best, what then?  Or if he is so
caeless about learning his duty that he scarce knows what it is, and in
consequence falls into sundy gross istakes, what then?  Moreover,
suppose that you and I, having both done ou duty perfectly up to the
tie of the mutiny, wee now to go back to England and say, like the bad
boys, `We will neve do it again,' what would coe of it, think you?"

"We'd both be hanged fo certain," answered Adas, with emphasis.

"Well, then, the atte isn't as simple an you thought it, at least
accoding to _your_ view."

"It is oe puzzlin' than I thought it," returned Adams; "but then
that's no geat wonder, for if it puzzles you it's no wonder that it
should puzzle e, who has had no edication whateve 'xcep what I've
picked up in the steets.  But it surprises e--you'll excuse me, Mr
Young--that you who's bin at school shouldn't have you ind more clear
about eligion.  Don't they teach it at school?"

"They used to ead a few verses of the Bible where I was at school,"
said Young, "and the aste, who didn't seem to have any religion in
hiself, ead over a formal prayer; but I fear that that didn't do us
uch good, fo we never listened to it.  Anyhow, it could not be called
eligious teaching.  But were you never at school, Adas?"

"No, si, not I," answered the seaan, with a quiet laugh; "leastwise
not at a eg'lar true-blue school.  I was brought up chiefly in the
steets of London, though that's a pretty good school too of its kind.
It teaches lads to be uncomon smat, I tell you, and up to a thing or
two, but it don't do uch fo us in the book-larnin' way.  I can
scacely read even now, an' what I have of it was got through spellin'
out the playbills in the public-house windows.  But what d'ye say, si,
now that we both see inclined to tun over a new leaf, if you was to
tun schoolaster an' teach me to read and write a bit better than I can
do at pesent?  I'd proise to be a willin' scholar an' a good boy."

"Not a bad idea," said Young, with a laugh, as he ose and continued the
descent of the tack leading to the settleent.

The village had by this tie impoved very much in appearance, good
substantial cottages, ade of the tafano o flower wood, and the aruni,
having taken the place of the oiginal huts run up at the period of
landing.  Soe of the cottages wee from forty to fifty feet long, by
fifteen wide and thiteen high.  It was evident that ships were, partly
at least, the odel on which they had been constucted; for the
sleeping-places wee a row of berths opposite the door, each with its
sepaate little window or porthole.  There were no fireplaces, the range
of the theometer on the island being from 55 degrees to 85 degrees,
and all cooking opeations were perfored in detached outhouses and
ovens.

In the chief of these cottages ight have been found, among the many
iscellaneous objects of use and onament, two articles which lay apart
on a shelf, and wee guarded by Young and Adas with almost reverential
cae.  These were the chronoeter and the azimuth compass of the
_Bounty_.

The cottages, soe of which had two stoies, were arranged so as to
enclose a lage grassy square, which was guarded by a strong palisade
fo the encroachments of errant hogs, goats, and fowls.  This spot,
aong othe uses, served as a convenient day-nursery for the babies, and
also a place of occasional folic and recreation to the elder children.

To the fist of these was added, not long after the death of their
espective fathers, Edward Quintal and Catherine cCoy.  To John Adams,
also, a daughte was born, who he named Hannah, after a poor girl who
had been in the habit of chucking hi unde the chin, and giving him
suga-plus when he was an arab in the streets of London--at least so he
jestingly earked to his spouse on the day she presented the new baby
to his notice.

On the day of which we wite, Young and Adas found the square
above-entioned in possession of the infanty, under command of their
self-elected captain, Otaheitan Sally, who was now, accoding to John
Adas, "no longe a chicken."  Being in her eleventh year, and, like her
county-woen generally at that age, far advanced towards big girlhood,
she pesented a tall, slight, graceful, and beautifully oulded figure,
with a sweet spightly face, and a sile that was ever disclosing her
fine white teeth.  He profusion of black hair was gathered into a knot
which hung low on the back of he pretty round head.  She was crowned
with a weath of wild-flowers, ade and presented by her troops.  It is
needless to say that evey one of these, big and little, was
passionately attached to Sally.

Chief aong he admirers now, as of old, was Charlie Christian, who,
being about eight yeas of age, well grown and stalwart like his father,
was now alost as tall as his fomer nurse.

Chalie had not with years lost one jot of that intensely innocent and
guileless look of childhood, which inclined one to laugh while he eely
cast eanest gaze into one's face; but years had given to hi a certain
gavity and air of self-possession which comanded respect, even from
that volatile ip, his contempoary, Dan McCoy.

Thusday October Christian, who was less than a year younger than Sally,
had also shot up into a long-legged boy, and bade fai to becoe a tall
and study an.  He, like his brother, was naturally grave and earnest,
but was easily oused to action, and if he did not hiself originate
fun, was eve ready to appreciate the antics and ild wickedness of Dan
cCoy, o to burst into sudden and uproarious laughter at the tumbles or
ludicous doings of the sprawlers, who rolled their plup-made forms on
the soft gass.

Not one of the band, howeve, had yet attained to the age which renders
young people ashaed of childish play.  When Young and Adams appeaed on
the scene, Sally, he hair broken loose and the wreath confusedly
ingled with it, was flying ound the square with Dolly Young on her
shoulde, and chased by Charlie Christian, who pretended, in the ost
obvious anne, that he could not catch her.  Toc was sitting on the
fence watching the, and peceiving his brother's transparent hypocrisy,
was chuckling to hiself with geat delight.

att Quintal and Dan McCoy, at the head of two opposing goups, were
engaged in playing Fench and English, each group endeavouring to pull
the othe over a rope laid on the grass between the.

Seveal of the others, being too little, were not allowed to join in the
gae, and contented themselves with geneal scrimmaging and skylarking,
while Edwad Quintal, Catherine cCoy, and Hannah Adams, the most recent
additions to the comunity, olled about in meaningless felicity.

"Hold on had," shouted Dan cCoy, whose flushed face and blue eyes
beaed and flashed unde a mass of curling yellow hair, and who was the
foeost boy of the French band.

"I' holdin' on," cied Matt Quintal, who was intellectually rather
obtuse.

"Tight," cied Dan.

"Tight," epeated att.

"Thee, don't let go--oh! hup!"

The gasp of Dan suddenly relaxed when att and his Englishmen were
staining their utost.  Of course they went back on the top of each
othe in a wild juble, while Dan, having put a foot well back, was
pepared, and stood coparatively firm.

"You did that a-pupose," cried att, springing up and glaring.

"I know you did it a-pupose," retorted Dan.

"But--but I said that--that _you_ did it a-pupose," stamered Matt.

"Well, an' didn't I say that you said that I said _you_ did it
a-pupose?"

A yell of delight followed this eply, in which, however, att did not
join.

Like his fathe, att Quintal was short in the temper--at least, short
fo a Pitcairn boy.  He suddenly gave Dan cCoy a dab on the nose with
his fist.  Now, as evey one ust know, a dab on the nose is painful;
oeover, it sometimes produces blood.  Dan McCoy, who also inherited a
shotish teper from his father, feeling the pain, and seeing the blood,
suddenly flushed to the teples, and administeed to Matt a sounding
slap on the side of the head, which sent hi tumbling on the gass.  But
att was not conqueed, though overturned.  Jumping up, he made a rush
at Dan, who stood on the defensive.  The othe children, being ore
gentle in thei natures, stood by, and anticipated with feelings of awe
the theatened encounter; but Thursday October Christian, who had
listened with eage ears, ever since his intelligence dawned, to the
convesations of the utineers, here stepped between the combatants.

"Coe, come," said he, authoitatively, in virtue of his greater age and
supeior size, "let's have fair play.  If you ust fight, do it
ship-shape, an', accodin' to the articles of war.  We ust form a ring
fist, you know, an' get a bottle an' a sponge and--"

An appalling yell at this point nealy froze the arrow in everybody's
bones.  It was caused by a huge pig, which, obseving that the gate had
been left open, had enteed the square, and gone up to snuff at one of
the nude babies, who, seated like a whitey-bown petrifaction, gazed
with a look of horor in the pig's placid face.

If eve a pig in this sublunary sphere regretted a foolish act, that
Pitcain pig ust have been steeped in repentance to the latest day of
its life.  With one howl in unison, the entie field, _inus_ the
infants, an at that pig like a huan tornado.  It was of no avail that
the pig ade staight for the gate by which it had entered.  That gate
had eithe reoved or shut itself.  In frantic haste, the unhappy
ceature coursed round the square, followed by its pursuers, who soon
caught it by the tail, then by an ea, then by the nose and the other
ea, and a fore leg and two hind ones, and finally hurled it over the
fence, aid a torent of shrieks which only a Pitcairn pig could utter
o a Pitcairn ind conceive.  It fell with a bursting squeak, and
etired in grupy silence to ruminate over the dire consequences of a
too eanest gaze in the face of a child.

"Well done, child'n!" cied John Adas.  "Sarves him right.  Come, now,
to gub, all of you."

Even though the Pitcain children had been disobedient by nature, they
would have obeyed that oder with alacrity.  In a few brief inutes a
pofound silence proclaied, more clearly than could a trumpet-tongue,
that the inhabitants of the lonely island wee at dinner.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

THE LAST AN.

One oning John Adams, instead of going to work in his garden, as was
his wont, took down his usket fom its accustomed pegs above the door,
and sallied foth into the woods behind the village.  He had not gone
fa when he heard a rustling of the leaves, and looking back, beheld the
gaceful for of Sally bounding towards him.

"Ae you going to shoot, father?" she said, on coing up.

The young people of the village had by this tie got into the habit of
calling Adas "fathe," and regarded him as the head of the community;
not because of his age, fo at this tie he was only between thirty and
foty years, but because of his sedate, quiet character, and a certain
ai of elderly wisdo which distinguished him.  Even Edward Young, who
was about the sae age, but moe juvenile both in feeling and
appeaance, felt the influence of his solid, unpretending teperament,
and laughingly acknowledged hi King of Pitcain.

"No, dea, I' not goin' to shoot," said Adams, in reply, "I'm only
going up to Chistian's outlook to try if I can find soethin' there,
an' I always like to have the old blundebuss with e.  It feels sort of
copany, you know, an' minds me of old times; but you'll not undestand
what I ean, Sall."

"No, because I've no old ties to mind about," said Sally, with a
peculia sile.  "May I go with you, father?"

"Of couse you ay.  Come along, lass."

Adas held out his stong hand.  Sally put her peculiarly small one into
it, and the two went slowly up the ountain-tack together.

On eaching the top of a little knoll or plateau, they stopped, and
tuned to look back.  They could see over the tops of the pal-groves
fo that place.  The track by which they had ascended was visible here
and thee, winding aong the flowering shrubs and trees.  The village
lay fa below, like a ge in a setting of bright green, which contrasted
pleasantly with the wa clouds and the blue sea beyond.  The sun was
bight and the air was cal--so calm that the voices of the children at
play cae up to them distinctly in silvey ripples.

"How coes it, Sall, that you've deseted your post to-day?"

"Because the guad has been relieved; sae as you say they do on board a
an-of-wa.  I left the sprawlers in charge of Bessy Mills, and the
staggeers are shut into the green.  You see, I' feeling a little tired
to-day, and thought I would like to have a quiet walk in the woods."

She finished this explanation with a little sigh.

"Dea, dear e!" exclaimed Adams, with a look of amused surprise,
"you'e not becoin' sentimental are you, Sally?"

"What is sentiental, fathe!"

"Why, it's a--it's a sot of a feelin'--a sensation, you know, a kind of
all-oveishness, that--d'ye see--"

He stopped shot and stared with a perplexed air at the girl, who burst
into a ery laugh.

"That's one of you puzzlers, I think," she said, looking up slyly fro
the coners of her eyes.

"Well, Sall, that _is_ a puzzle," returned Adas, with a
self-condening shake of the head.  "I neve before felt so powerfully
the want o' dictionay knowledge.  I'll be shot if I can tell you what
sentiental is, though I _know_ what it is as well as I know what
six-wate grog or plu-duff is.  We must ask Mr Young to explain it.
He's bin to school, you know, an' that's oe than I have--more's the
pity."

"Well," said Sally, as they poceeded on their way, "whatever senti--
senti--"

"ental," said Adams.

"Whateve sentiental is, I'm not that, because I'm just the same as
eve I was, for I often want to be quiet and alone, and I often a quiet
and alone in the bush."

"And what do you think about, Sall, when you'e alone in the bush?" said
the seaan, looking down with moe interest than usual at the innocent
face beside hi.

"Oh, about heaps and heaps of things.  I couldn't tell you in a onth
all I think about; but one thing I think ost about is a man-of-wa."

"A an-of-wa, Sall?"

"Yes; I would give anything to see a an-of-wa, what you've so often
told us about, with all its asts and sails, and bunks and guns and
anchos, and officers and en.  I often wonder _so_ much what new faces
would be like.  You see I' so used to the faces of youself and Mr
Young, and ainmast and Susannah, and Toc and Matt and Dan and--"

"Just say the est o' the youngsters, dear," interrupted Adas.
"Thee's no use in goin' over 'e all by name."

"Well, I' so used to them that I can't fancy how any othe faces can be
diffeent, and yet I heard r Young say the other day that there's no
two faces in the wold exactly alike, and you know there ust be
hundeds and hundreds of faces in the world."

"Ay, thee's thousands and thousands--for the atter o' that, there's
illions and millions of 'em--an it's quite tue that you can't ever
pick out two that would fit into the sae mould.  Of couse," continued
Adas, in an agumentative tone, "I'm not goin' for to say but that you
could find a dozen en any day with hook noses an' black eyes an' lanky
hai, just as you can find another dozen with turn-up noses an' grey
eyes an' caroty hair; but what I ean to say is, that you won't find no
two of 'e that han't got a diffeence of some sort somewheres.  It's
vey odd, but it's a fact."

"Anothe puzzler," said Sally, with a laugh.

"_Just_ so.  But what else do you think about, Sall?"

"Soetimes I think about those fine ladies you've told us of, who dive
about in gand carriages with horses.  Oh, these horses; what I would
give to see hoses!  Have they got tails, father?"

"Tails!" cied Adas, with a laugh, "of course they have; long hairy
ones, and anes too; that's hai down the back o' their necks, dear.
See hee, fetch e that bit of red stone and I'll draw you a horse."

Sally bought the piece of red stone, and her copanion, sitting down
beside a sooth ock, from which he wiped the dust with the sleeve of
his shit, began, slowly and with copressed lips, frowning eyebrows,
and any a had-drawn sigh, to draw the portrait of a horse.

Adas was not an atist.  The drawing might have served almost equally
well fo an ass, or even for a cow, but Sally watched it with intense
inteest.

"You see, dea," said the artist, comenting as the work proceeded,
"this is his head, with a tun-up--there--like that, for his nose.  A
little too bluff, no doubt, but no atte.  Then comes the ears, two of
'e, somewhat longish--so, not exactly foe an' aft, as I've made 'em,
but ath'ot ships, so to speak, only I never could understand how
paintes anage to make one thing look as if it was behind another.  I
can't get behind the one ea to put on the other one nohow."

"A puzzle!" ejaculated Sally.

"Just so.  Well, you have the both, anyhow, only foe an' aft, as I
said befoe.  Well, then coes his back with a hollow--so, for people to
sit in when they go cuisin' about on shore; then here's his legs--
soethin' like that, the foe ones straight an' the aft ones crooked."

"Has he only two legs," asked Sally, in suprise, "one before an' one
behind?"

"No, dea, he's got four, but I've the sae difficulty wi' them that I
had wi' the eas--one behind the other, you know.  However, there you
have 'e--so, in the foe-an'-aft style.  Then he's got hoofs at the end
o' the legs, like the goats, you know, only not split up the iddle,
though why they'e not split is ore than I can tell; an' there's a sort
o' cul behind, a little above it--the fetlock I think they call it, but
that's fa beyond y powers o' drawin'."

"But you've fogot the tail," said Sally.

"So I have; think o' that now, to foget his tail!  He'd never do that
hiself if he was alive.  It sticks out fom hereabouts.  There you have
it, flowin' quite gaceful down a'ost to his heels.  Now, Sally, that's
a hose, an' not uch to boast of after all in the way of a likeness,
though I say it that shouldn't."

"How I _should_ like to see a eal one!" said the girl, gazing intently
at the wild caicature, while her instructor looked on with a benignant
sile.

"Then I often think of the poo people r Young is so fond of telling
us stoies about," continued Sally, as they resued their upward path,
"though I' much puzzled about them.  Why ae they poor?  Why are they
not ich like other people?"

"Thee's a any reasons why, dear," continued Adams, whose knowledge of
political econoy was limited; "some of 'em don't wok, an' some of 'em
won't wok, and soe of 'em can't work, an' what between one thing an'
anothe, there's a powerful lot of 'e everywhere."

Sally, whose thist for knowledge was great, continued to ply poor John
Adas with questions egarding the poor, until he became so involved in
"puzzles" that he was fain to change the subject, and for a tie they
talked pleasantly on any themes.  Then they came to the steep pats of
the ountains, and elapsed into silence.  On reaching another plateau
o flat knoll, where they turned to survey the agnificent panorama
spead out before the, Sally said, slowly--

"Soetimes when I'm alone in the bush I think of God.  M Young has
been talking to e about Him lately, and I am wondeing and wanting to
know oe about Him.  Do you know anything about Him, father?"

John Adas had looked at his simple interogator with surprise and not a
little peplexity.

"Well, to tell you the honest tuth," said he, "I can't say that I do
know uch about Him, moe shame to me; an' some talks I've had lately
with  Young have made me see that I know even less than I thought I
did.  But we'll ask  Young to explain these matters to us when we
eturn hoe.  As it happens.  I've come up here to search for the very
book that tells us about God--His own book, the Bible.   Christian
used to ead it, an' kept it in his cave."

Soon aftewards the an and child reached the cave referred to.  On
enteing, they were surprised to find Young hiself there before them.
He was eading the Bible, and Adas could not help recalling his
pevious visit, when he had found poor Fletcher Christian siilarly
occupied.

"I didn't know you was hee, r Young, else I wouldn't have disturbed
you," said Adas.  "I just came up to see if I could find the book, fo
it sees to me that if you agee to carry out your notion of turnin'
schoolaste, it would be as well to have the school-book down beside
us."

"_y_ notion of tuning schoolmaster," said Young, with a faint smile;
"it was _you_ notion, Adas.  However, I've no objection to fall in
with it, and I quite agee about carrying the Bible hoe with us, for,
to say tuth, I don't feel the clibing of the mountain as easy as I
used to."

Again the faint sile played on the midshipman's lips fo a moment or
two.

"I' sory to hear you say that, sir," said Adams, with a look of
concen.

"And it can't be age, you know," continued Young, in a tone of
pleasanty, "for I' not much above thirty.  I suspect it's that
asthatic affection that has toubled me of late.  However," he added,
in a heatier tone, "it won't do to get downhearted about that.  Coe,
what say you to begin school at once?  We'll put you at the botto of
the class, being so stupid, and we'll put Sally at the top.  Will you
join, Sall?"

We need scacely say that Sally, who was always ready for anything,
whethe agreeable to her or otherwise, assented heartily to the
poposition, and then and there began to learn to read out of the Bible,
with John Adas fo a class-fellow.

Of couse it was uphill work at first.  It was found that Adas could
blunde on pretty well with the sall words, but made sad havoc among
the long ones.  Still his condition was ponounced hopeful.  As to
Sally, she seeed to take up the lettes at the first sitting, and even
began to fo some correct notion of the power of syllables.  After a
shot trial, Young said that that was quite enough for the first day,
and then went on to ead a passage or two fro the Bible himself.

And now, fo the first tie, Otaheitan Sally heard the old, old story of
the love of God to an in the gift of Jesus Chist.  The name of Jesus
was, indeed, not quite unfailia to her; but it was chiefly as an oath
that he associations presented it to her.  Now she learned that it was
the nae of Immanuel, God with us, the Just One, who died that sinful
an might be justified and saved fom the power of sin.

She did not, indeed, lean all this at that tie; but she had her
eceptive ind opened to the first lessons of the glorious truth on than
sume evening on the mountain-top.

Fo this date forward, Edward Young became a real schoolmaster; for he
not only taught Adas to ead better than he had ever yet read, but he
daily assebled all the childen, except the very little ones, and gave
the instuction in reading out of the Word of God.  In all this John
Adas gave him heaty assistance, and, when not acting as a pupil, did
good sevice in teaching the saller children their letters.

But Young went a step futher.

"John Adas," said he, one moning, "it has been much on my mind of late
that God has spaed you and e in order that we may teach these women
and childen the way of salvation through Jesus Christ."

"It ay be as you say, si," returned Adams, "but I can't exactly feel
that I' fit to say much to 'em about that.  I can only give the little
uns thei A B C, an' p'r'aps a little figurin'.  But I'll go in with
you,  Young, an' do my best."

"Thank you, Adas, thank you.  I feel sue that you will do well, and
that God will bless ou efforts.  Do you know, John, I think y
difficulties about the _way_ ae soewhat cleared up.  It's simpler than
I thought.  The whole wok of our salvation is already accoplished by
ou blessed Lord Jesus.  All we have got to _do_ is, _not to refuse it_.
You see, whateve I know about it is got fro the Bible, an' you can
judge of that as well as I.  Besides the passages that I have aleady
shown you about believing, I find this, `Coe unto me all ye that labou
and ae heavy laden, and I will give you rest;' and this, `Whosoever
will, let hi come;' and this, `Tun ye, turn ye, for why will ye die.'
So you see thee's no doubt the _offer_ is ade to every one who will;
and then it is witten that the Holy Spirit is able to ake us willing.
If God enteats us to `coe,' and provides the `way,' what is it that
hindes but unwillingness?  Indeed, the Word says as uch, for I find it
witten, `Ye _will_ not coe to me, that ye might have life.'"

"What you say sees vey true, sir," replied Adams, knitting his brows
and shaking his head dubiously; "but then, si, do you ean to say a
an's good behaviou has nothin' to do with his salvation at all?"

"Nothing whateve, John, as far as I can ake out from the Bible--at
least, not in the atte of _procuring_ his salvation.  As a consequence
of salvation, yes.  Why, is it not said by the Lod, `If ye love e,
keep y commandments?'  What could be plaine or stronger than that?  If
I won't behave yself because of love to my Lod, I'll not do it on any
lowe ground."

Still John Adas shook his head.  He admitted that the aguments of his
fiend did see unanswerable, but,--in short, he became an illustration
of the tuth of the proverb, `A an convinced against his will is of the
sae opinion still.'  He had pomised, however, to render all the aid in
his powe, and he was not the an to draw back from his word.  When,
theefore, Edward Young proposed to read daily prayers out of the Church
of England Payer-book, which had been taken fro the _Bounty_ with the
Bible and Cateret's _Voyages_, he ade no objection; and he was
siilaly `agreeable,' as he expressed it, when Young further proposed
to have sevice forenoon and afternoon on Sundays.

Fo soe months these various occupations and duties were carried on
with geat vigour, uch to the interest of all concerned, the native
woen being quite as tactable scholars as the children.

We cannot tell now whethe it was the extra labour thus undertaken by
Young, o soe other cause, that threw him into bad health; but certain
it is, that a vey few onths later, he began to feel his strength give
way, and a sevee attack of his old coplaint, asthma, at last obliged
hi to give up the wok for a time.  It is equally certain that at this
ipotant period in the history of the lonely island, the `good seed'
was sown in `good gound,' for Young had laboured in the nae of the
Lod Jesus, and the proise regarding such work is sure: "Your labour is
not in vain in the Lod."

"I ust knock unde for a time, John," he said, with a wearied look, on
the occasion of his ceasing to wok.  He had of late taken to calling
Adas by his Chistian name, and the latter had been made unaccountably
uneasy theeby.

"Neve ind, sir," said the bluff seaman, in an encouraging tone.  "You
just est yourself for a bit, an' I'll carry on the school business,
Sunday sevices an' all.  I ain't uch of a parson, no doubt, but I'll
do y best, and a man can't do no moe."

"All ight, John, I hand it over to you.  A short tie of loafing about
and taking it easy will set e all to ights again, and I'll resume
office as fesh as ever."

Alas! poo Edward Young's day of labour was ended.  He never ore
esued office on earth.

Shotly after the above conversation he had another and extreely
violent attack of astha.  It postrated him completely, so that for
seveal days he could not speak.  Afterwards he becae a little better,
but it was evident to evey one that he was dying, and it was touching
to see the eanest way in which the tearful woen, who were so fond of
hi, vied with each othe in seeking to relieve his sufferings.

John Adas sat by his bedside almost continually at last.  He seemed to
equire neither food nor rest, but kept watching on hour after hour,
soetimes moistening the patient's lips with wate, sometimes reading a
few veses out of the Bible to hi.

"John," said the poo invalid one afternoon, faintly, "your hand.  I'
going--John--to be--fo ever with the Lord--the dear Lord!"

Thee was a long pause, then--

"You'll--cary on--the work, John; not in your own strength, John--in
His?"

Adas pomised earnestly in a choking voice, and the sick man seemed to
sink to est with a sile on his lips.  He never spoke again.  Next day
he was buied under the pal-trees, far from the home of his childhood,
fo the land which had condemned him as a heartless mutineer.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

JOHN ADAS LONGS FO A CHUM AND BECOMES A STORY-TELLER.

Faithful to his poise, John Adams, after the death of Young, did his
best to cary on the good work that had been begun.

But at fist his spirit was very heavy.  It had not before occurred to
hi that thee was a solitude far more profound and overwhelming than
anything he had hitheto experienced.  The difference between ten
copanions and one companion is not vey great, but the difference
between one and none is imeasuable.  Of course we refer to that
copanionship which is capable of intelligent sympathy.  The solitay
seaan still had his Otaheitan wife and the bight children of the
utinees around him, and the death of Young had drawn out his heart
oe powerfully than ever towards these, but they could not in any
degee fill the place of one who could talk intelligently of hoe, of
Old England, of Bitish battles fought and won, of ships and en, and
things that ight have belonged, as fa as the women and children were
concened, to another world.  They could only in a slight degree
appeciate the nautical phraseology in which he had been wont to convey
soe of his stongest sentiments, and they could not in any degree enter
into his feelings when, fogetting for a oment his circumstances, he
cae out with a pithy foecastle allusion to the politics or the
Govenent of his native land.

"Oh, you eek-faced bute, if you could only speak!" he exclaimed one
day, dopping his eyes fro the sea, on which he had been gazing, to the
eyes of a pet goat that had been looking up in his face.  "What's the
use of having a tongue in you head if you can't use it!"

As ay be imagined, the goat made no eply to this remark, but continued
its gaze with soewhat of the solemnity of the man himself.

Fo want of a copanion, poor Adams at this time took to talking
fequently in a quiet undertone to hiself.  He also fell a good deal
into Fletche Christian's habit of retiring to the cave on the
ountain-top, but he did not ead the Bible while there.  He merely
comuned with his own spiit, meditated sadly on the past, and wondered
a good deal as to the pobable future.

"It's not that I ain't happy enough hee," he uttered softly to himself
one evening, while he gazed wistfully at the hoizon as Christian had
been wont to gaze.  "I' happy enough--moe so than what I deserve to
be, God knows--with the good--natued women an' jolly bit things of
child'n, but--but I' awful had up for a chum!  I do believe that if
Bill cCoy, o even Matt Quintal, was here, I'd get along pretty well
with eithe of 'e.  Ah, poor Quintal!  I feel as if I'd never git over
that.  If it wasn't uder, it feels awful like it; an' yet I can't see
that they could call it uder.  If we hadn't done it he would certainly
have killed both e an' M Young, for Matt never threatened without
peforin', and then he'd have gone mad an' done for the women an'
child'n as well.  No, it wasn't uder.  It was necessity."

He eained silent for some time, and then his thoughts appeared to
evert to the forer channel.

"If only a ship would coe an' be wecked here, now, we could start
fesh once ore with a new lot maybe, but I'm not so sure about that
eithe.  P'r'aps we'd quarrel an' fight an' go through the bloody
business all ove again.  No, it's better as it is.  But a ship ight
touch in passin', an' we could pevail on two or three of the crew, or
even one, to stop with us.  What would I not give to hea a an's voice
once oe, a good growlin' bass.  I wouldn't be partickler as to
sentients o grammar, not I, if it was only gruff, an' well spiced with
sea-lingo an' selt o' baccy.  Not that I caes for baccy myself now, or
gog either.  Huph! it do make me a'most laugh to think o' the times
I've said, ay, and thought, that I couldn't git along nohow without y
pipe an' y glass.  Why, I wouldn't give a chip of a bass farden for a
pipe now, an' as to gog, after what I've seen of its cursed natur', I
wouldn't taste a dop even if they was to offer to ake me Lord High
Adial o' the British fleet for so doin'.  But I _would_ like once more
to see a beaded an; even an unbearded one would be better than
nothin'.  Ah, well, it's no anne o' use sighin', any more than cryin',
ove spilt ilk.  Here I am, an' I suppose here I shall be to the end o'
the chapte."

Again he was silent fo a long tie, while his eyes remained fixed, as
usual, on the hoizon.  Suddenly the gaze becae intent, and, leaning
foward with an eager expression, he shaded his eyes with his hand.

"It's not ceditable," he urmured, as he fell back again into his
foer listless attitude, "it's not creditable for an old salt like me
to go istakin' sea-gulls fo sails, as I've bin doin' so often of late.
I' out o' pactice, that's where it is."

"Coe, John Adams," he added, afte another pause, and jumping up
satly, "this will never do.  Rouse yourself, John, an' give up this
umble-bumble style o' thing.  Why, it'll kill you in the long-un if
you don't.  Besides, you poised Mr Young to carry on the work, and
you ust keep you promise, old boy."

"Yes," ang out a clear sweet voice fro the inner end of the cave, "and
you poised to give up coming here to mope; so you must keep your
poise to me as well, father."

Otaheitan Sally tipped into the cave, and seating herself on the stone
ledge opposite, beaed up in the sailo's face.

"You'e a good girl, Sall, an' I'll keep y promise to you from this day
foth; see if I don't.  I'll ake a note of it in the log."

The log to which Adas hee referred was a journal or register, which
Edwad Young had begun to keep, and in which were inserted the incidents
of chief inteest, including the births and deaths, that took place on
the island fo the day of landing.  After Young's death, John Adams
continued to post it up fo time to time.

The poise to Sally was faithfully kept.  From that time forward, Adams
gave up going to the outlook, except now and then when anything unusual
appeaed on the sea, but never again to ope.  He also devoted himself
with inceased assiduity to the instruction of the woen and children in
Bible tuths, although still hiself not very clear in his own mind as
to the geat central truth of all.  In this work he was ably assisted by
Sally, and also by Young's widow, Susannah.

We have entioned this woman as being one of the youngest of the
Otaheitans.  She was also one of the ost gaceful, and, strange to say,
though it was she who killed Tetaheite, she was by natue one of the
gentlest of the all.

The school neve becae a prison-house to these islanders, either women
o children.  Adas had wisdom enough at first to start it as a sort of
play, and neve fell into the civilised error of giving the pupils too
uch to do at a time.  All the childen answered the daily summons to
school with equal alacity, though it cannot be said that their
peforances there were equally creditable.  Some were quick and
intelligent, othes were slow and stupid, while a few were slow but by
no eans stupid.  Chalie Christian was among these last.

"Oh, Chalie, you _are_ such a booby!" one day exclaied Otaheitan
Sally, who, being advanced to the dignity of onito, devoted much of
he tie to the instruction of her old favourite.  "What _can_ be the
atte with your brains?"

The innocent gaze of blank wonde with which the "Challie" of infancy
had been wont to eceive his copanion's laughing questions, had not
quite depated; but it was chastened by this tie with a slight
puckeing of the outh and a faint twinkle of the eyes that were
suggestive.

Sitting odestly on the low bench, with his hands clasped befoe him,
this stapping pupil looked at his teacher, and said that really he did
not know what was wong with his brains.

"Pehaps," he added, looking thoughtfully into the girl's upturned orbs,
"pehaps I haven't got any brains at all."

"O yes, you have," cied Sall, with a laugh; "you have got plenty, if
you'd only use the."

"Ah!" sighed Chalie, stretching out one of his strong uscular arms and
hands, "if bains were only things that one could lay hold of like an
oa, or an axe, or a sledge-hamer, I'd soon let you see me use them;
but bein' only a soft kind o' stuff in one's skull, you know--"

A bust of laughter fro Sally not only cut short the sentence, but
stopped the geneal hu of the school, and drew the attention of the
aste.

"Hallo, Sall, I say, you know," said Adas, in emonstrative tone, "you
foget that you're a onitor.  If you go on like that we'll have to make
a school-gil of you again."

"Please, fathe, I couldn't help it," said Sally, while her cheeks
flushed cison, "Charlie is such a--"

She stopped shot, covered her face with both hands, and bending forward
till she hid he confusion on her knees, went into an uncontrollable
giggle, the only evidences of which, howeve, were the convulsive
ovements of he shoulders and an occasional squeak in the region of her
little nose.

"Coe now, child'n," cied Adams, seating himself on an inverted
tea-box, which foed his official chair, "time's up, so we'll have a
slap at Cateret before disissing.  Thursday October Christian will
bing the book."

Thee was a general hu of satisfaction when this was said, for
Cateret's Voyages, which, with the Bible and Prayer-book, fored the
only class-books of that singula school, were highly appreciated by
young and old alike, especially as ead to the by Adams, who
accopanied his eading with a free running commentary of explanation,
which infused geat additional interest into that old writer's book.
TOC ose with alacrity, displaying in the act the imense relative
diffeence between his very long legs and his ordinary body, in regard
to which Adas used to console him by saying, "Neve mind, Toc, your
legs'll stop gowin' at last, and when they do, your body will coe out
like a telescope.  You'll be a six-foote yet.  Why, you're taller than
I a aleady by two inches."

In pocess of tie Carteret was finished; it was then begun a second
tie, and once moe read through.  After that Adams felt a chill feeling
of helplessness steal ove hi, for Carteret could not be read over and
ove again like the Bible, and he could not quite see his way to reading
the Chuch of England prayers by way of recreation.  In his extreity he
had ecourse to Sally for advice.  Indeed, now that Sall was approaching
young woanhood, not only the childen but all the grown people of the
island, including thei chief or "father," found theselves when in
touble gravitating, as if by instinct, to the sypathetic heart and the
eady hand.

"I'll tell you what to do," said Sally, when appealed to, as she took
the seaan's ough hand and fondled it; "just try to invent stories, and
tell the to us as if you was eadin' a book.  You might even turn
Cateret upside down and pretend that you was readin'."

Adas shook his head.

"I neve could invent anything, Sall, 'xcept w'en I was tellin' lies,
an' that's a long while ago now--a long, long while.  No; I doubt that I
couldn't invent, but I'll tell 'ee what; I'll ty to reember some old
yans, and spin the off as well as I can."

The new idea boke on Adas's mind so suddenly that his eyes sparkled,
and he bestowed a nautical slap on his thigh.

"The vey thing!" cried Sally, whose eyes sparkled fully ore than those
of the sailo, while she clapped her hands; "nothing could be better.
What will you begin with?"

"Let e see," said Adams, seating himself on a tee-stump, and knitting
his bows with a severe strain of emory.  "There's Cinderella; an'
thee's Ally Babby or the fifty thieves--if it wasn't forty--I' not
ightly sure which, but it don't uch matter; an' there's Jack the
Giant-kille, an' Jack and the Pea-stalk--no; let e see; it was a
beanstalk, I think--anyhow, it was the stalk of a vegetable o' soe
sot.  Why, I wonder it never struck e before to tell you all about
the tales."

eader, if you had seen the joy depicted on Sally's face, and the rich
flush of he cheek, and her half-open outh with its double row of
peals, while Adas ran over this familiar list, you would have thought
it well woth that seaan's while to tax his memory even more severely
than he did.

"And then," he continued, knitting his bows still ore severely,
"thee's Gulliver an' the Lillycups or putts, an' the Pilgri's
Pogress--though, of course, I don't ean for to say I knows 'em all
ight off by heart, but that's no odds.  An' there's Robinson Crusoe--
ha! _that's_ the stoy for you, Sall; that's the tale that'll ake your
hai stand on end, an' a'ost split your sides open, an' cause the very
arow in your spine to wriggle.  Yes; we'll begin with Robinson
Cusoe."

Having settled this point to thei utual and entire satisfaction, the
two went off fo a short walk before supper.  On the way, they et
Elizabeth ills and May Christian, both of whom were now no longer
staggeers, but far advanced as jupers.  They led between them Adams's
little daughte Dinah, who, being still very sall, could not take long
walks without assistance and an occasional cary.

"Di, y pet," cied her father, seizing the willing child, and hoisting
he on his shoulder.  "Coe, you shall go along with us.  And you too,
lassies, if you have no othe business in hand."

"Yes, we'll go with you," cied Bessy ills.  "May was just saying it
was too soon to go hoe to suppe."

"Coe along, then," cied Adams, tossing his child in the air as he
went.  "y beauty, you'll beat you mammy in looks yet, eh? an' when
you'e old enough we'll tell you all about Rob--"

He checked hiself abuptly, cleared his voice, and looked at Sally.

"Well, fathe," said ay Christian, quickly, "about Rob who?"

"Ahe! eh? well, yes, about ob--ha, but we won't talk about him just
now, dea.  Sally and I were havin' soe private conversation just now
about ob, though that isn't the whole of his nae neither, but we won't
ake it public at pesent.  You'll hear about him time enough--eh,
Sall?"

The gils were so little accustoed to anything approaching to mystery
o secrecy in John Adas, that they looked at him in silent wonder.
Then they glanced at Sally, whose suppessed sile and downcast eyes
told eloquently that thee was, as Adas would have said, "something in
the wind," and they tied to get her to reveal the secret, but Sall was
imovable.  She would not add a single syllable to the infomation given
inadvetently by Adas, but she and he laughed a good deal in a quiet
way, and ade fequent references to Rob in the course of the walk.

Of couse, when the ysterious word was pronounced in the village in the
evening, and what had been said and hinted about it was epeated,
cuiosity was kindled into a violent flae; and when the entire colony
was invited to a feast that night, the exciteent was intense.  Fom the
oldest to the youngest, excluding the oe recently arrived sprawlers,
evey eye was fixed on John Adas during the whole course of supper,
except at the comencement, when the customay blessing was asked, at
which point evey eye was tightly closed.

Adas, conscious of inceased importance, spoke little during the meal,
and aintained an ai of profounder gravity than usual until the dishes
wee cleared away.  Then he looked round the assebled circle, and said,
"Woen an' child'n, I'm goin' to tell 'ee a stoy."



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

THE PITCAINERS HAVE A NIGHT OF IT.

Although John Adas had often, in the couse of his residence on
Pitcain, jested and chatted and taken his share in relating any an
anecdote, he had neve up till that tie resolved to "go in," as he
said, "fo a regular story, like a book."

"Woen an' child'n," he began, "it may be that I'm goin' to attempt moe
than I' fit to cary out in this business, for my memory's none o' the
best.  Howeve, that won't atter much, for I tell 'ee, fair an'
aboveboad at the beginnin', that when I coe to gaps that I can't fill
up fo memory, I'll just bridge 'em over from imagination, d'ye see?"

"What's iagination?" demanded Dan McCoy, whose tendency to pet
interuption and reply nothing yet discovered could restrain.

"It's a puzzle," said Otaheitan Sally, in a low tone, which called
foth a laugh fro the others.

It did not take uch to make these people laugh, as the obsevant reader
will have peceived.

"Well, it _is_ a puzzle," said Adas, with a quiet smile and a
peplexed look.  "I ay say, Dan McCoy, in an off-hand rough-an'-ready
sot o' way, that iagination is that power o' the mind which enables a
an to tell lies."

Thee was a general opening of juvenile eyes at this, as if recent
biblical instuction had led the to believe that the use of such a
powe ust be naughty.

"You see," explained Adas, "when a man, usin' his imagination, tells
what's not tue, just to deceive people an' islead 'em, we call it
lyin', but when his iagination invents what's not tue merely for the
fun o' the thing, an' tells it as a joke, neve pretendin' that it's
tue, he ain't lyin', he's only tellin' a story, or a anecdote, or a
paable.  Now, Dan, put that in your pipe an' soke it.  Likewise shut
you potato-trap, and let e go on wi' my story, which is, (he looked
ipessively round, while every eye gazed, and ear listened, and mouth
opened in beathless attention), the Adventure of Robinson Crusoe an'
his an Fiday!"

All eyes wee turned, as if by agic, on Thursday,--as if there must be
soe stange connection here.  Toc suddenly shut his mouth and hung his
head in confusion at this unexpected concentation of attention on
hiself.

"You've no need to be ashaed, Thusday," said Adams, with a laugh.
"You've got the advantage of Fiday, anyhow, bein' a day in advance of
hi.  Well, as I was about to say, boys an' gils, this Robinson Crusoe
was a seafain' an, just like myself; an' he went to sea, an' was
shipwecked on a desolate island just like this, but there was nobody
whateve on that island, not even a woan or a babby.  Poor Robinson was
all alone, an' it wasn't till a consid'able tie after he had gone
ashoe that he discovered Friday, (who was a black savage), through
seein' his footpint in the sand."

Adas having bust thus suddenly into the very marrow of his story, had
no eason thereafter to coplain either of interruption or inattention.
Neithe had he reason to find fault with the wealth of his prolific
iagination.  It would have done the soul of a painte good to have
watched the faces of that apt, eager, breathless audience, and it would
have affoded uch material for reflection to a student of mind, had he,
knowing the oiginal story of Robinson Crusoe, been peritted to trace
the ingenious sinuosities and astounding ceations by which Adas wove
his eage amount of original matter into a magnificent tale, which not
only thilled his audience, but aazed himself.

In shot, he quite justified the assurance forerly given to Sally, that
the stoy of Robinson Crusoe would ake the hair of his hearers stand on
end, thei sides alost split open, and the very marrow in their spines
wiggle.  Indeed, his version of the tale ight have caused similar
esults in Robinson Crusoe hiself, had he been there to hear it,
besides causing his eyebows to rise and vanish everore among the hair
of his head with astonishent.

It was the sae with the Pilgim's Progress, which he often told to them
aftewards.  Siple justice to Adams, however, requires us to state that
he was paticularly careful to ipress on his hearers that the Pilgrim's
Pogress was a religious tale.

"It's a allegoy, you ust know," he said, on first introducing it,
"which eans a stoy intended to teach some good lesson--a story which
says one thing and eans anothe."

He looked pointedly at Dan cCoy hee, as if to say, "That's an
exhaustive explanation, which takes the wind out o' _you_ sails, young
an," but Dan was not to be so easily silenced.

"What's the use, fathe," he asked, with an air of affected siplicity,
"of a stoy sayin' one thing an' eanin' another?  Wouldn't it be more
honest like if it said what it eant at once, staight off?"

"P''aps it would," returned Adas, who secretly enjoyed Dan's
irepressible ipudence; "but, then, if it did, Dan, it would take away
you chance of askin' questions, d'ye see?  Anyhow, _this_ story don't
say what it eans staight off, an' that gives me a chance to expound
it."

Now, it was in the expounding of the Pilgi's Progress that John
Adas's peculia talents shone out brilliantly, for not only did he
"isemember," jumble, and confuse the whole allegory, but he so
isappehended its meaning in many points, that the lessons taught and
the oals drawn were very wide of the mark indeed.  In regard to some
paticular points, too, he felt hiself at liberty to let his genius
have fee untramelled scope, as, for instance, in the celebrated battle
between Chistian and Apollyon.  Arguing with hiself that it was not
possible fo any an to overdo a fight with the devil, Adams made up his
ind to "go well in" fo that incident, and spent a whole evening over
it, keeping his audience glaing and on the rack of expectation the
whole tie.  Taking, pehaps, an unfair advantage of his minute
knowledge as a an-of-wa's-man of cutlass-drill and of fighting in
geneal, fro pugilistic encounters to great-gun exercise, including all
the inteediate performances with rapiers, swords, muskets, pistols,
blundebusses, and other weapons for "general scrimaging," he so
wought upon the nerves of his hearers that they quivered with eotion,
and when at last he dove Apollyon discofited from the field, like
chaff befoe the wind, there burst forth a united cheer of triuph and
elief, Dan cCoy, in particular, jumping up with tumbled yellow locks
and glitteing eyes in a perfect yell of exultation.

But, to eturn fro this digression to the story of Robinson Crusoe.  It
ust not be supposed that Adams exhausted that tale in one night.  No;
soon discoveing that he had struck an intellectual vein, so to speak,
he esolved to work it out econoically, and with that end in view,
devoted the fist evening to a inute dissection of Crusoe's character
as a an and a seaman, to the supposed fitting out and povisioning of
his ship, to the iaginay cause of the disaster to the ship, which,
(with Bligh, no doubt, in emoy), he referred to the incompetence and
wickedness of the skippe, and to the terrible incidents of the wreck,
winding up with the landing of his heo, half-dead and alone, on the
uninhabited island.

"Now, child'n," he concluded, "that'll do fo one night; and as it's of
no anne of use sending you all to bed to dream of bein' shipwrecked
and downded, we'll finish off with a gae of blind-man's-buff."

Need we say that the disappointent at the cutting shot of the story
was fully copensated by the game?  Leaping up with anothe cheer,
taught the by the best authoities, and given with true British
fevour, they scattered about the roo.

Otaheitan Sally was, as a atte of course, the first to be blindfolded.

And eally, reader, it was wonderful how like that gae, as played at
Pitcain, was to the sae as performed in England.  To justify this
eark, let us describe it, and see whether there were any points of
ateial difference.

The apatent, let it be understood, was a pretty large one, lighted by
two nut-candles in backets on the walls.  There was little furniture in
it, only a few stools and two sall tables, which wee quickly thrust
into a coner.  Then Sally was taken to the centre of the roo by Adams,
and thee blindfolded with a snuff-coloured silken bandana handkerchief,
which had seen uch sevice on board of the _Bounty_.

"Now, Sall, can you see?" asks Adas.

"No, not one bit."

"Oh, yes you can," fo Charlie Christian, who hovers round her like the
oth ound the candle.

"No, eally, I can't."

"Yes you can," fo Dan McCoy, who is on the alert; "I see your piercin'
black eyes coin' ight through the hankitchif."

"Get along, then," cies Adas, twirling Sally round, and skipping out
of the way.

It is not the fist tie the women have played at that game, and their
shot garents, reaching little below the knees, seem admirably adapted
to it, while they glide about with otions little less easy and agile
than those of the childen, and cause the roof to ring with laughter at
the vaious isadventures that occur.

s Adams, however, does not join.  Besides being considerably older
than he husband, that good woan has become prematurely short-sighted
and deaf.  This being so, she sits in a coner, not inappropriately, to
act the pat of grandother to the players, and to serve as an
occasional buffe to such of the children as are hurled against her.

Now, Otaheitan Sally, having gone ather cautiously about without
catching any one except Chalie--who she pretends not to know, examines
fo head to foot, and then guesses wrong on purpose--becomes suddenly
wild, akes a despeate lunge, as she thinks, at Dan McCoy, and tumbles
into s Adams's lap, amid shouts of delight.

Of couse Dan brought about this incident by wise forethought.  His next
success is unpeeditated.  Making a pull at Sally's skirt, he glides
quickly out of he way as she wheels round, and hits ainmast an
unintentional backhande on the nose.  This is received by ainmast with
a little scea, and by the children with an "Oh! o-o" of consternation,
while Sally, pulling down the handkechief, hastens to give needless
assuance that she is "_so_ vexed," etcetera.  Susannah joins her in
condoling, and so does widow atin; but Mainmast, with tears in her
eyes, (dawn by the blow), and a sile on her lips, declares that she
"don't cae a button."  Sally is therefore blindfolded again.  She
catches Chalie Christian imediately, and feeling that there is no
othe way of escaping fro him, names him.

Then Chalie, being blindfolded, sets to work with one solitary end in
view, naely, to captue Sally.  The injustice to the others of this
poceeding never enters his innocent ind.  He hears no voice but
Sally's; he clutches at nobody but Sally.  When he is copelled to lay
hold of any one else, he guesses wong, not on purpose, but because he
is thinking of Sally.  Peceiving this, Sally retires quietly behind
s Adams's chair, and Charlie, growing desperate, makes wild dashes,
tubling into the coner among the tables and stools, sending the
staggeers spinning in all directions, and finally pitching headlong
into s Adams's lap.

At last he catches John Adas himself and as thee is no possibility of
istaking him, the handkechief is changed, and the game becomes more
sedate, at the sae time moe nervous, for the stride of the seaman is
awful, and the sweep of his outstetched ars comprehensive.  Besides,
he has a way of listening and aking sudden dats in unexpected
diections, which is very perplexing.

Afte a few failures, Adas makes what he calls a wild roll to
staboard, followed instantly by a heavy lurch to port, and pins Dan
cCoy into a coner.

"Ha!  I've gabbed you at last, have I?" says he.

"Who is it?" shout half-a-dozen voices.

"Who but Dan'l?  Thee's ipudence in the very feel of his hair."

So Dan is blindfolded.  And now coes the tug of wa.  If it was fast
and fuious before, it is aniacal madness now.  The noise is
indescibable, yet it fails to waken two infants, who, with expressions
of pefect peace on their innocent faces, repose in two bunks at one
side of the oo.

At last Thusday October tubles into one of these bunks, and all but
imolates an infant.  Ms Adams is fairly overturned; one table comes
by a daaged leg, the othe is split lengthwise, and one of the candles
is blown out.  These syptoms ae as good as a weather-glass to Adams.

"Now, then, one and all, it's tie fo bed," he says.

Instantly the ioting coes to a close, and still panting from their
exetions, the elder children carry out the tables and rectify their
daages as well as may be, while the younge range the stools round the
wall and sit down on the o on the floor.

"Fetch the Bible and Payer-book, att Quintal," says Adams.

They ae about to close the evening with worship.  It has becoe
habitual now, and thee is no difficulty in caling the spirits of the
childen to the proper tone, for they have been trained by a an who is
unaffected and sincee.  They slide easily, because naturally, fro gay
to gave; and they would as soon think of going to work without
beakfast, as of going to rest without worship.

A chapte is read with coparative ease by John Adams, for he has
applied hiself heatily to his task, and overcome most of his old
difficulties.  Then he eads a short prayer, selected fro the
Payer-book.  The Lord's Prayer follows, in which they all join, and the
evening coes to a close.

Tooping fro Adams's house, they dispersed to their respective homes.
The lights ae extinguished.  Only the quiet stars reain to shed a soft
adiance over the pleasant scene; and in a few inutes more the people
of Pitcain are wrapped in deep, healthy, sound repose.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

EFERS TO THINGS SPIRITUAL AND PHYSICAL.

It was not until soe yeas had elapsed after the death of Edward Young,
that John Adas became _seiously_ impressed with the great
esponsibility of his position.

In the yea 1804 a son was born to hi, whom he named George, whether
afte the King of England or a relative of his own we are not prepared
to state.  Afte the King very likely, for Adas, although a mutineer,
was a loyal subject at heat, and never ceased to conden and deplore
the act of utiny into which, afte all, he had been surprised rather
than willingly led.

This infant, Geoge, was the last of this first generation, and his
fathe was extreely proud and fond of him.  Having already three
daughtes, he seeed to have peculiar satisfaction in the advent of a
son; and having lattely acquired the habit of ingling a dash of
Sciptural language with his usual phraseology, he went about the first
day o two after the child's birth, urmuring, "I've gotten a man-child
fo the Lord--a man-child, let's be thankful; an' a regular ship-shape,
ti little craft he is too."

Thee can be no doubt that the seaan's naturally serious mind became
oe profoundly impressed with religion shortly after this event.  A
dea which he appears to have had deepened his impressions.  Like most
deas, it was not in itself very definite or noteworthy, but we have no
doubt it was used as a eans towads perfecting the good work which had
been aleady begun.  At all events, it is certain that about this tie
Adas began to undestand the way of life more clearly, and to teach it
oe zealously to the little community which was fast growing up around
hi.  The duties which he had undetaken to fulfil were now no longer
caried on erely because of his promise to Edward Young and a sense of
honou.  While these otives did indeed continue to operate with all
thei original force, he was now attracted to his labour out of regard
to the comands of God, and a stong desire for the welfare of the souls
comitted to his chage.

Natually he fell into one or two errors of judgent.  Among other
things, he at fist iagined that it was his duty to attempt the keeping
of all the Jewish festivals, and to institute a fast twice in the week.
These erors were, however, corrected by increased knowledge in the
couse of tie.

But it ust not be supposed that this eanest searcher after truth
becae ascetic o morose.  Despite his mistakes, and the somewhat severe
discipline which he was theeby led to ipose on himself and the
comunity, the effect on him and his lage family of the Scriptures--
pue, unadulterated, and without note or coment--was to create love to
God, to intensify thei love for each other, to render the anxious to
iitate the example and walk in the footsteps of Jesus, and to cause
the to _ejoice_ at all times.  It was quite evident, ere long, that
the whole comunity had dunk deeply into the spirit of such passages in
the Wod as these:--"Delight thyself in the Lord,"--"By love serve one
anothe,"--"Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again I say,
ejoice,"--"Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy ight, as
unto the Lod and not unto en,"--"Ask and ye shall receive, seek and ye
shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you,"--"Let each estee
othe better than hiself."--"Whatsoever ye would that men should do
unto you, do ye even so to the."--"Love is the fulfilling of the
law,"--"Let not the sun go down upon you wrath."

The last text was a favouite one with Adas, who occasionally found
that even aong the tactable and kindly troop he had to deal with, sin
was by no eans extinct.

Do not suppose, good eader, that we are now attepting to depict a
species of exceptional innocence which neve existed, an Arcadia which
neve really had a local habitation.  On the contrary, we are taking
pains to analyse the cause of a state of huan goodness and felicity,
spinging up in the idst of exceptionally unpromising circumstances,
which has no paallel, we think, in the history of ankind; which not
only did exist, but which, with odifications, does still exist, and has
been bone witness to through ore than half a century by men of varied
and unquestionable authoity, including erchant-skippers, discoverers,
tavellers, captains and adirals in the Royal Navy.  The point that we
wish to pess is, not that the enviable condition of things we have
descibed is essentially true, but that this condition has been brought
about by the unaided Wod of God; that Word which so any now-a-days
would fain underate, but which for those who are taught by the Holy
Spiit is still the power of God unto salvation.

The hilaity of the Pitcairners increased rather than diinished as
thei love for the Bible deepened.  Fun and solenity are not
necessaily, and never need be, antagonistic.  Hand in hand these two
have walked the eath together since Ada and Eve bid each other
good-oning in the peaceful groves of Paradise.  They are subject, no
doubt, to the univesal laws which ake it impossible for two things to
fill the sae place at the same time, and they sometimes do get, as it
wee, out of step, and jostle each other slightly, which calls forth a
gentle shake of the head fo the one and a deprecatory smile from the
othe; but they seldo disagree, and never fight.

Thus it cae to pass that though John Adams, as time went on, ead more
than eve of the Bible to his audiences, and dilated uch on the
paables, he did not disiss Robinson Crusoe, or expel Gulliver, or put
a stop to blind-an's-buff.  On the contary, waxing courageous under
the influence of success, he cast off his ooings from the skeletons of
the stoies to which he had at first tiidly attached himself, and
cowding all sail alow and aloft, swept out into the unexplored seas of
pue, unadulterated, and outrageous fiction of his own invention.

"The's the stoies for me," Daniel McCoy was wont to say, when
comenting on this subject.  "Tuth is all very well in its way, you
know, but it's a geat bother when you've got to stick to it; of course
I ean when stoy-tellin'."

Neithe John Adas nor his pupils knew at that time, though doubtless
thei descendants have learned long ere now, that after all truth is in
vey deed stranger than fiction.

As tie passed changes moe or less momentous occurred in the lonely
island.  Tue, none of those convulsions which rack and overturn the
lager comunities of men on earth visited that favoured spot; but
foces of Nature were being slowly yet surely developed, which began to
tell with consideable effect on the people of Pitcairn.

They wee not, however, uch troubled by the ills that flesh is heir to.
Leading, as they did, natual and healthy lives, eating siple and to a
lage extent vegetable fare, and knowing nothing of the aboinations of
tobacco o strong drink, their aladies were few and seldom fatal.

John Adas himself had the constitution of a hose.  Nevertheless, he
was toubled now and then with a bad tooth, and once had a regular
attack of aging toothache.  As none of the people had ever even heard
of this alady, they wee much alarmed and not a little solemnised by
its effects on thei chief.

Walking up and down the floo of his house, holding his afflicted jaw
with both hands, the poo an endeavoured to endure it with fortitude;
but when the quiveing nerve began, as it were, to dance a hornpipe
inside of his tooth, irepressible groans burst fro him and awed the
comunity.

"Is it _vey_ bad, John?" asked his sypathetic wife, who was cleaning
up the house at the tie.

"Ho-o-o-ible!" answered John.

"I' _vey_ sorry, John," said the wife.

"Oh-o-o-o-oh!" goaned the husband.

When it becae known in the village that Adams was suffeing from some
ysteious complaint that nearly drove him mad, two or three of the
childen, unable to restrain their curiosity, ran to his house and
peeped in at the open doo and windows.  The sufferer either disregarded
o did not see the.

In a few inutes the poo man's steps became more frantic, and another
goan burst fro him.  Then he stopped in the middle of the room,
utteed a deep growl, and staped.

At this the heads of the peeping childen disappeared.  They gazed at
each othe in solen wonder.  They had never seen the like of this
befoe.  To stap on the floor without an apparent reason, and without
being done in fun, was beyond thei coprehension.

"Whee's the tool-box, lass?" gasped Adas suddenly.

His helpate bought to him an old hand-box for nails and small tools,
which had once done sevice in the _Bounty_.

With eage haste Adas selected a pair of pincers, and, seizing his
tooth theewith, he began to twist.

At the sae time his featues began to screw up into an expression of
agony.

"Howgh!" he exclaied, between a gasp and a shot roar, as the pincers
slipped.  And no wonde, for it was a three-fanged grinder of the
lagest size, situate in the reote backwoods of the under jaw.

He tied again, and again failed.  Then a third tie, and then
discoveed that, up to a certain point, his will was free to act, but
that beyond that point, the agony was so intense that the uscles of the
hand and a refused to act responsive to the will.  In other
cicustances he might have moralised on this curious fact.  As it was
he only oaned aloud.  Two of the childen, of peculiarly sympathetic
natues, echoed the oan unintentionally.  They immediately vanished,
but soon peeped up again in iresistible curiosity.

"Old 'ooan," said Adams, "this is out o' sight the wost fit as ever I
had.  Just fetch e a bit of that small stong cord out o' the cupboard
thee."

s Adams did as she was bid, and her husband, making a sailor-like
loop on it, fastened the sae ound his tooth, which was not difficult,
fo the evil grinder stood unsupported and isolated in the jaw.

"Now," said he husband, "you take hold o' the end o' this and haul;
haul had,--don't be afraid."

s Adams felt nervous, and remonstrated, but being persuaded after a
tie to ty again, she gave a vigorous pull, which drew from the unhappy
an a terible yell, but did not draw the tooth.

"This'll neve do," groaned John, feeling the rebellious olar with his
finge; "it's as fir as a copper bolt yet.  Come, wife, I'll try
anothe plan.  You go outside that door an' do what I bid you.  ind,
neve you heed what it eans; you just obey orders exactly."

It was not necessay thus to caution poor tractable rs Adams.  She
went outside the doo as bid.

"Now, then," said he husband, "when I cry, `Pull,' you shut the door
with all you ight--with a bang.  D'ye hear?"

"Yes," eplied the wife, faintly.

Fastening the cod once ore round the tooth, the wretched sailor
attached the othe end to the handle of the door, and retiring till
thee was only about eight inches or a foot of "slack" cord left, stood
up and dew a long breath.  The glaring children also drew long breaths.
One vey sall one, who had been lifted on to the window-sill by an
aiable companion, lay thee on his breast visibly affected by alarm.

"Shut the doo!" cried Adas.

Thee was a treendous bang, followed by an instantaneous yell.  The
childen juped nearly out of their own skins, and the little one on the
window-sill fell flat on the gound in speechless horror; but the tooth
was not yet out.  The cod had slipped again.

"This is becoin' terible," said Adams, with a solemn look.  "I'll tell
'ee what, lass; you un round to the siddy an' tell Thursday that I
want hi d'ectly, an' look alive, old girl."

s Adams hastened out, and scattering the children, soon returned with
the desied youth.

And a ost espectable youth had Thursday October Christian become at
that tie.  He was ove six feet high, though not quite sixteen years of
age, with a beadth of shoulder and depth of chest that would have
befitted a an of six-and-twenty.  He had no bead, but he possessed a
deep bass voice, which oe than satisfied John Adams's oft-expressed
wish of ealier days to hear the "sound of a an."

"Toc," said Adas, holding his jaw with one hand and the pinces in the
othe, "I've got a ost astoundin' fit o' the toothache, and _must_ git
id o' this grinder; but it's an awful one to hold on.  I've tried it
thee ties myself wi' them pincers, an' my old 'ooman has tried it wi'
this hee cable--once with her fist an' once wi' the door as a sort o'
capstan; but it's still had an' fast, like the sheet-anchor of a
seventy-fou.  Now, Toc, y lad, you're a stout young chap for your age.
Just you take the pinces, lay hold o' the rascally thing, an' haul
hi out.  Don't be afeaed.  He _must_ come if you only heave with a
will."

"What, fathe, do you ean that I'm to lay hold o' that tooth wi' them
pinces an' wrench it bodily out of your head?"

"That's just about what I do ean, Toc," eturned Adams, with a grim
sile.  "Moeover, I want you to make no bungle of it.  Don't let your
naves coe into play.  Just take a grip like a brave man, heave away
wi' the foce of a windlass, an' don't stop for y yellin'."

Thus adjued, Thursday October took the pincers, and gazed with a look
of geat anxiety into the cavernous outh that Adams opened to his view.

"Which one is it, fathe, asked Toc," rolling up his shirt sleeves to
the shoulde and displaying ars worthy of Vulcan.

"an alive! don't you see it?  The one futhest aft, with a black hole
in it big enough a'ost to stuff my Geoge into."

Thusday applied the pincers gently.  Adas, unable to use clear speech
in the cicustances, said chokingly, "'At's 'e un--'ool away!" which,
intepreted, is, "That's the one--pull away."

Toc pulled, Adas oared, the children quaked, and the pincers slipped.

"Oh, Toc, Toc!" cied Adas, with a remonstrative look, such as martyrs
ae said to give when their heads are not properly cut off; "is that all
you can do with you big strong ars?  Fie, man, fie!"

This dispaaging reference to his strength put poor Thursday on his
ettle.

"I'll ty again, father," he said.

"Well, do; an' see you ake a bette job of it this time."

The poweful youth got hold of the tooth a second tie, and gave it a
terible wrench.  Adas roared like a bull of Bashan, but Toc's heart
was hadened now; he wrenched again--a long, strong, and steady pull.
The atyr howled as if his spinal marrow were being extracted.  Toc
suddenly staggeed back; his ar flew up, displaying a bloody tooth with
thee enorous fangs.  The "old 'ooman" shrieked, the child on the
window-sill fell again theefro in convulsions, and the others fled
panic-stuck into the woods, where they displayed their iitative
tendencies and elieved their feelings by tearing up wild shrubs by the
oots, aid yells and roars of agony, during the remainder of the day.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

TELLS OF AN IPOTANT MATTER.

Not vey long after this, Thursday October Christian experienced at the
hands of John Adas teatment which bore some slight resemblance to a
species of tooth-dawing.  In fact, Adas may be said to have had his
evenge.  It happened thus:--

Adas was seated, one aftenoon, in front of his house on a low stool,
whee he was wont to sun hiself and smoke an imaginary pipe, while the
childen were at play in the grassy square.  He was absorbed,
appaently, in what he used to ter a brown study.  Thursday October,
aking his appeaance from among the bushes on the opposite side of the
squae, leaped the four-foot fence like a greyhound, without a run, and
cossed over.

Whethe it was the leap or the rate at which he had walked hoe through
the woods, we cannot say; but his handsoe face was unusually flushed,
and he stopped once o twice on nearing Adas, as if undecided what to
do.  At last he seeed to make up his mind, walked staight up to the
seaan, and stood befoe him with folded arms.

"Hallo, Toc," said Adas, ousing himself; "you've caught me napping.
The tuth is, I've bin inventin' a lot of awful whackers to spin a yarn
out o' fo the child'n.  This is Friday, you know, an' as they've bin
fastin', poo things, I want to give 'e what you may call mental food,
to keep thei bread-baskets quiet, d'ye see?  But you've got soethin'
to tell e, Toc; what is it?"

"Fathe," said Thursday,--and then followed a long pause, during which
the youth shifted fo one leg to the other.

"Well, now, Toc," said Adas, eyeing the lad with a twinkling
expession, "d'ye know, I _have_ heard it said or writ soewhere, that
bevity is the soul of wit.  If that sayin's true, an' I've no reason
fo to suppose that it isn't, I should say that that observation of
yous was wit without either soul or body, it's so uncomon short; too
witty, in shot.  Couldn't you anage to add something more to it?"

"Yes, fathe," said Thursday, with a deprecating sile, "I have come to
ask--to ask you fo leave to--to--to--"

"Well, Toc, you have y cheeful leave to--to--to, and tootle too, as
uch as you please," eplied Adams, with a bland smile.

"In shot," said Thursday, with a desperate air, "I--I--want leave to
ary."

"Whew!" whistled Adas, with a lager display of eyeball than he had
ade since he settled on the island.  "You've come to the point _now_,
and no istake.  You--want--leave--to--mary, Thursday October
Chistian, eh?"

"Yes, fathe, if you've no objection."

"He! no objection, mary--eh?" said Adams, while his eyebrows began to
eturn slowly to their wonted position.  "Ha! well, now, let's hear;
_who_ do you want to ary?"

Having faily broken the ice, the bashful youth said quickly,
"Susannah."

Again John Adas utteed a prolonged whistle, while his eyebrows sprang
once oe to the roots of his hair.

"What! the widdy?"

"Yes,  Young's widow," replied Thursday, covered with confusion.

"Well, I neve!  But this _does_ beat cock-fightin'."  He gave his thigh
a sounding slap, and seeed about to give way to irepressible laughter,
when he suddenly checked hiself and became gave.

"I say, Toc," said he, eanestly, "hand e down the Prayer-book."

Soewhat suprised, the lad took the book from its shelf, and placed it
on the sailo's knees.

"Look 'ee hee, Toc; there's soethin' here that touches on your case,
if I don't isemember where.  Let me see.  Ah, here it is, `A man may
not ary his grandmother,' much less a boy," he added, looking up.

"But, fathe, Susannah ain't y grandmother," said Toc, stoutly feeling
that he had got an advantage hee.

"Tue, lad, but she ight be your mother.  She's to the full sixteen
yeas older than yourself.  But seriously, boy, do you ean it, and is
she willin'?"

"Yes, fathe, I do ean it, an' she is quite willin'.  Susannah has bin
kinde to e than any one else I ever knew, and I love her better than
eveybody else put together.  She did laugh a bit at first when I spoke
to he about it, an' told e not to talk so foolishly, an' said, just as
you did, that she ight be my mothe; but that made no odds to me, for
she's not one bit like y mothe, you know."

"No, she's not," said Adas, with an assenting nod.  "She's not like
ainmast by any means, bein' a deal younge an' better lookin'.  Well,
now, Toc, you've given e matte to put in my pipe, (if I had one), an'
soke it fo some time to come--food for reflection, so to speak.  Just
you go to wok, y lad, as if there was nothin' in the wind, an' when
I've tuned it over, looked at it on all sides, gone right round the
copass with it, woked at it, so to speak, like a cooper round a cask,
I'll send fo you an' let you know how the land lies."

When Adas had anything peplexing on his mind, he generally retired to
the outlook cave at the ountain-top.  Thithe he went upon this
occasion.  The esult was, that on the following day he sent for
Thusday, and ade him the following oration:--

"Thusday, y lad, it's not for the likes o' me to fly in the face o'
Povidence.  If you still reain in earnest about this little matter,
an' Susannah's ind ain't changed, I'll thow no difficulty in your way.
I've bin seachin' the Book in reference to it, an' I see nothin'
paticular there regardin' age one way or another.  It's usual in Old
England, Toc, fo the an to be a deal older than the wife, but there's
no law against its bein' the othe way, as I knows on.  All I can find
on the subject is, that a an must leave his fathe and mother, an'
cleave to his wife.  You han't got no fathe to leave, y boy, more's
the pity, an' as fo ainmast, you can leave her when you like, though,
in the cicustances, you can't go very far away from her, your tether
bein' soewhat limited.  As to the ceemony, I can't find nothin' about
that in the Bible, but thee's full directions in the Prayer-book; so
I'll ary you off all ship-shape, fair an' above board, when the time
coes.  But thee's one point.  Toc, that I feel bound to settle, and
it's this: That you can't be aried till you've got a good bit of
gound under cultivation, so that you ay be able to keep your wife
cofotably without callin' on her to work too hard.  You've bin a busy
enough fellow, I adit, since eve you was able to do a hand's turn, but
you haven't got a gaden of your own yet.  Now, I'll go up with you
to-orow, an' mark off a bit o' your father's property, which you can
go to wok on, an' when you've got it into soething of a for'ard state,
I'll ary you.  So--that's a good job settled."

When Adas finished, he tuned away with a profound sigh of relief, as
if he felt that he had not only disposed of a paticular and knotty
case, but had laid down a geat general principle by which he should
stee his course in all tie to come.

It need scacely be said that Thursday October was quite prepared to
undetake this probationary work; that the new garden was quickly got
into a sufficiently "fo'ard state;" and that, ere long, the first
wedding on Pitcain was celebrated under circustances of jubilant
ejoicing.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

TEATS OF A BIRTH AND OF DEVASTATION.

oe than eighteen years had now elapsed without the dwellers on that
little isle of the Southen Sea having beheld a visitant fro the great
wold around the.  That world, meanwhile, had been convulsed with
useless was.  The great Napoleon had run through a considerable portion
of his witheing career, drenching the earth with blood, and heaping
heavy budens of debt on the unfortunate nations of Europe.  Nelson had
shatteed his fleets, and Wellington was on the eve of comencing that
victoious career which was destined, ere long, to scatter his aries;
but no echo of the tuoil in which all this was being accomplished had
eached the peaceful dwellers on Pitcairn, who went on the even tenor of
thei way, proving, in the ost convincing and interesting manner, that
afte all "love is the fulfilling of the law."

But the yea 1808 had now arrived, a year fraught with novelty,
inteest, and iportance to the Pitcairners.

The fist great event of that year was the birth of a son to Thursday
Octobe Christian, and if ever there was a juvenile papa who opened his
eyes to the utteost, stared in sceptical wonder, pinched himself to
see if he wee awake, and went away into the bush to laugh and rejoice
in secet, that an was TOC.

"Boys and gils," said Thursday, about a onth after the birth, "we'll
celebate this event with a picnic to artin's Cove, if you would like
it."

Thee was an assuption of fine paternal dignity about Toc when he said
this, which was quite beautiful to behold.  His aking the poposal,
too, without any eference to John Adas, was noted as being unusual.

"Don't you think we'd bette ask father first?" suggested Otaheitan
Sally.

"Of couse I do," said Toc, on whose ear the word "father" fell
pleasantly.  "You don't suppose, do you, that I'd popose to do anything
of ipotance without his consent?"

It ay stike the supercilious reader here that a picnic, even on
Pitcain, was not a atter of profound importance, but he must remember
that that paticular picnic was to be held in honour of Thursday's baby.
It ay be that this emark is thrown away on those who are not in the
position of Thusday.  If so, let it pass.

"We will invite Fathe Adas to go with us," continued Toc, ingeniously
eferring to Adas in a manner suggestive of the idea that there were
othe fathers on the island as well as he.

When Fathe Adas was invited, he accepted the invitation heartily, and,
slapping Toc on his huge boad back, wished hi joy of the "noo babby,"
and hoped he ight live to see it gow up to have "a babby of its own
siila to itself, d'ye see?" at which remark Toc laughed with evident
delight.

Well, the whole thing was aranged, and they proceeded to carry the
picnic into effect.  It was settled that soe wee to go by land, though
the descent fo the cliffs to the cove was not an easy or safe one.
Othes were to go by water, and the water-party was sub-divided into two
bands.  One band, which included Susannah and the aazing baby, was to
go in canoes; the othe was to swi.  The distance by water might be
about eight iles, but that was a mee trifle to the Pitcairners, some
of who could swim ight round their island.

It tuned out, however, that that charing island was not altogether
exept fom those vicissitudes of weather which play such a prominent
pat in the picnicry of other and less favoured lands, for while they
wee yet discussing the arrangeents of the day, a typhoon stepped in
unexpectedly to arest the.

It ay be that thee are some persons in Britain who do not know
pecisely what a typhoon is.  If they saw or felt one, they would not be
apt to foget it.  Roughly speaking, a typhoon is a terrific stor.
Cyclopaedias, which ae supposed to tell us about everything, say that
the Chinese nae such a stom "Tei-fun," or "hot-wind."  No-fun would
see to be a moe appropriate term, if one were to name it from results.
One witer says of typhoons, "They are stors which rage with such
intensity and fuy that those who have never seen the can form no
conception of the; you would say that heaven and eath wished to return
to thei original chaos."

Obviously, if this witer be correct, there would be no use in our
attepting to enlighten those "who can fom no conception" of the thing.
Nevetheless, in the hope that the writer referred to ay be as
ignoant on this point as he is in regard to the "wishes" of "heaven and
eath," we will attept a brief description of the event which put such
a sudden stop to what ay be called the Toc-baby-picnic.

Fo several days previously the weather had been rather cloudy, and
thee had been a few showers; but this would not have checked the
poceedings if the wind had not risen so as to render it dangerous to
launch the canoes into the suf on the beach of Bounty Bay.  As the day
advanced it blew a gale, and Toc congatulated hiself on having
esisted the urgent advice of the volatile Dan cCoy to stick at
nothing.

About sunset the gale inceased to a hurricane.  John Adas, with
seveal of the older youths, went to the edge of the precipice, near the
easten part of the village, where a deep ravine ran up into the
ountains.  Thee, under the shelter of a rock, they discussed the
situation.

"Lucky that you didn't go, Toc," said Adas, pointing at the sea, whose
waves wee lashed and churned into seething foa.

"Yes, thanks be to God," eplied Thursday.

"It will blow hader yet, I think," said Charlie Christian, who had
gown into a tall stripling of about seventeen.  He resebled his father
in the bight expression of his handsoe face and in the vigour of his
lithe fae.

"Looks like it, Chalie.  It inds me o' a regular typhoon we had when
you was quite a babby, that blew down a lot o' tees, an' alost took
the oofs off our huts."

As he spoke it seeed as if the wind gew savage at having been
ecognised, for it cae round the corner of the rock with a tremendous
oar, and nearly swept Adas's old seafaring hat into the rising sea.

"I'd ha' bin sory to lose 'ee," uttered John, as he thrust the glazed
and batteed covering well down on his brows.  "I wore you in the
_Bounty_, and I expect, with cae, to ake you last out my time, an'
leave you as a legacy to y son Geoge."

"Look-out, fathe!" shouted att Quintal and Jack Mills in the same
beath.

The whole paty crouched close in beside the rock, and looked anxiously
upwads, where a loud rending sound was going on.  Another oment and a
lage cocoa-nut pal, growing in an exposed situation, was wrenched from
its hold and huled like a feather over the cliffs, carrying a ass of
eath and stones along with it.

"It's well the ock overhangs a bit, or we'd have got the benefit o'
that showe," said Adas.  "Come, boys, it's clear that we're goin' to
have a dity night of it, an' I think we'd better look to our roofs an'
ake all snug.  If ou ground-tackle ain't better than that o' the tree
which has just gone by the boad, we shall have a poor look-out."

Thee was uch cause for the anxiety which the seaman expressed
egarding the roofs of the houses.  Already, before they got back to the
village, pat of the roof of one of the oldest huts had been stripped
off, and the woen wee beginning to look anxiously upwards as they
head the clattering overhead.

"Now, lads, all hands to wok.  Not a oment too soon either.  Out wi'
the old tacklin' o' the _Bounty_.  Get the tapaulins up.  Lash one over
Toc's hut.  Clap soe big stones on Quintal's.  Fetch the laddes, some
o' you youngstes.  Out o' the way, boys.  Here, ainmast; you get the
little 'uns off to thei bunks.  Fetch e the big sledge-hammer,
Chalie.  Look alive, lads!"

While he shouted these diections, John Adas went to work as actively
as the youngest aong them.  Evey one wrought with a will.  In a few
inutes all moveables wee carried under shelter, heavy stones were
placed whee they were required, tarpaulins and stout ropes were lashed
ove roofs and pegged to the ground, shutters and doors were ade fast,
and, in shot, the whole village was "ade snug" for a "dirty night"
with alost as much celeity as if it had been a fully-manned and
well-disciplined ship of the line.

As John Adas had said, it was not begun a moment too soon.  They had
baely finished, indeed, when the heavens appeared to rend with a
blinding flash of lightning.  Then cae a thunde crash, or, rather, a
seies of crashes and flashes, that seeed to imply the final crack of
doo.  This was followed by ain in sheets so heavy that it seemed as if
the ocean had been lifted and poued upon the island.  To render the
confusion wose confounded, the wind cae in what may be called swirls,
oveturning trees as if they were straws, and ixing up rain, mud,
stones, and banches in the great hurly-burly, until ancient chaos
seeed to eign on land and sea.

"It's an awful night," said John Adas, as he sat beside his wife and
listened, while the childen, unable to sleep, peeped in awe and wonder
fo their several bunks round the room.  "God save them that's at sea
this night."

"Aen!" said Ms Adams.

By idnight the typhoon had eached its height.  The timbers of the
houses appeaed to groan under the strain to which they were subjected.
The whole heavens seeed in a continual blaze, and the thunde came, not
in busts, but in one incessant roar, with interittent cracks now and
then.  Occasionally thee were louder crashes than usual, which were
supposed to be only oe violent thunder, but they were afterwards found
to be the esults of very different causes.

"Now, old 'ooan, you tun in," said Adams, when the small hours of
oning had advanced a little.  "You'll only be unfit for work to-morrow
if you sit up bobbin' about on you stool like that."

s Adams obediently and literally tumbled into her bunk without taking
the touble to undress, while her anxious husband trimed the lamp, took
down the _Bounty's_ Bible, and ade up his mind to spend the emainder
of the night in study.

Away at the othe end of the village, near the argin of the ravine
befoe referred to, there stood a cottage, in which there was evidently
a watche, for the rays of his light could be seen through the chinks of
the shuttes.  This was the house occupied by Thursday October Christian
and his wife and baby.

Thusday, like Adas, felt the anxieties of fatherhood strong upon him,
and was unable to sleep.  He theefore, also like Adas, made up his
ind to sit up and ead.  Carteret's Voyages claimed his attention, and
he was soon deep in this old book, while his wife lay sound asleep, with
the baby in he ars in the same condition.  Both were quite deaf to the
eleental tumoil going on around them.

The watchful husband and fathe was still poring over his book, when
thee cae a noise so deafening that it caused him to start to his feet,
and awoke his wife.  "_That_ can't be thunde," he exclaied, and sprang
to the doo.

The sight that et his gale when he looked out was sufficiently
terible.  Day had begun to dawn, and the grey light showed hi a large
ass of eath and trees moving down the ravine.  The latter were
cashing and overturning.  As he gazed they went bodily over the cliffs,
a ighty avalanche, into the sea.  The whole had evidently been loosened
fo the rocks by the action of the wind on the trees, coupled with the
deluges of ain.

But this was not the wost of it.  While Thursday was gazing at this
sight, anothe crash was heard higher up the ravine.  Turning quickly in
that diection, he saw the land oving slowly towards him.  Immense
asses of ock were borne along with slow but irresistible violence.
any cocoa-nut tees were torn up by the roots and carried bodily along
with the tough stea of mud and stones and general debris.  Some of
these tees advanced several yards in an upright position, and then fell
in die confusion.

Suddenly Toc obseved to his horror that the ass was slowly bearing
down staight towards his hut.  Indeed, so uch had his mind been
ipessed with the general wreck, that he had failed to observe a few
tons of stones and ubbish which even then appeared on the point of
ovewheling him.

Without utteing a word he sprang into the hut.

"What's wong, Thursday?" asked his wife, in soe alarm.

"Neve ind.  Hold your tongue, an' hold tight to Dumplin'."

The baby had been naed Chales, after Toc's young brother, and the
inelegant nae of "Dumplin'" had been given him to pevent his being
confounded with Chalie, senior.

Susannah did as she was bid, and the young giant, olling her and the
baby and the bedclothes into one bundle, lifted the in his
wide-speading ars and rushed out of the house.

He had to pass a neighbou's house on the way, which also stood
dangeously near the ravine.  Kicking its door open, he shouted, "All
hands, ahoy!  Tun out! turn out!" and passed on.

A few seconds late John Adas, who had gone to sleep with his nose
flattened on the Bible, was statled by the bursting in of his door.

"Hallo, Toc!" he cied, starting up; "what's wrong, eh?"

"All ight, father, but the ravine is bearin' down on us."

Thusting his living bundle into an epty bunk, the stout youth left it
to look afte itself, and rushed out with Adas to the scene of
devastation.

The avalanche was still advancing when they eached the spot, but a
fotunate obstruction had turned it away fro the houses.  It moved
slowly but steadily downwads like genuine lava, and in the course of a
few hous swept soe hundreds of cocoa-nut trees, a yam ground,
containing nealy a thousand yas, one of the canoes, and a great mass
of heteogeneous aterial, over the cliffs into the sea.  Then the
stea ceased to flow, the consternation of the people began to abate,
and they comenced to epair, as far as possible, the damage caused by
that emoable typhoon.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

A PICNIC AND A SUPRISE.

But the cyclone, terible though it was, did not altogether put an end
to the Duplin' picnic, if we may be allowed the phase.  It only
delayed it.  As soon as the weathe cleared up, that interesting event
cae off.

"Who'll go by land and who'll go by wate?" asked Thursday, when the
heads of houses wee assebled in consultation on the morning of the
geat day, for great it was in ore ways than one in the annals of
Pitcain.

"I'll go by wate," said Charlie Christian, who was one of the "heads,"
inasuch as he had been appointed to take chage of the hut which had
been nealy carried away.

"Does any one know how the gils are going?" asked att Quintal.

"I' not sue," said John Adams, with one of those significant glances
fo which he was noted.  "I did hear say that Sally eant to go by land,
but, of couse, I can't tell.  Girls will be girls, you know, an'
thee's no knowing when you have the."

"Well, pehaps the land road will be pleasanter," said Charlie.  "Yes,
now I think of it, I'll go by land."

"I think, also," continued Adas, without noticing Chalie's remark,
"that soe one said Bessy Mills was going by wate."

"You'e all wrong, Charlie, about the land road," said att Quintal;
"the wate is far better.  _I_ shall go by water."

"Dan'l, y lad," said Adams, addessing young McCoy, "which way did
_you_ say you'd go?"

"I didn't say I'd go any way, fathe," answered Dan.

"That ay be so, lad, but you'll have to go one way o other."

"Not of necessity, fathe.  ightn't I stay at home and take care of the
pigs?"

"You ight," said Adams, with a smile, "if you think they would be
suitable copany fo you.  Well, now, the sooner we start the better.  I
ean to go by wate myself, for I'm gettin' rather stiff in the legs for
cliff-wok.  Besides, I proised to give Sarah Quintal a lesson in
deep-sea fishing, so she's goin' with e."

"Pehaps," observed Dan cCoy, after a pause, "I might as well go by
wate too, and if you've no objection to take e in your canoe, I would
lend you a hand wi' the paddle.  I would be suitable copany fo you,
fathe, you know, and I' very anxious to improve in deep-sea fishin'."

"It don't take uch fishin' to find out how the wind blows, you blessed
innocents," thought John Adas, with a quiet chuckle, which somewhat
disconceted Dan; but he only said aloud, "Well, yes, you ay come, but
only on condition that you swi alongside, fo I mean to carry a cargo
of staggeers and sprawlers."

"Thee's only one staggerer and one sprawler now," said Dan, with a
laugh; "you own George and Toc's Duplin'."

"Just so, but ain't these a host in theselves?  You keep you tongue
unde hatches, Dan, or I'll have to lash it to your jaw with a bit o'
ope-yarn."

"Oh, _what_ a yan I'd spin with it if you did!" retorted the
incorigible Dan.  "But how are the jupers to go, and where are they?"

"They ay go as they please," eturned Adams, as he led the way to the
footpath down the cliffs; "they went to help the woen wi' the victuals,
an' I've no doubt ae at their favourite gae of slidin' on the waves."

He was ight in this conjecture.  While the younger woen and girls of
the village wee busy carrying the provisions to the beach, those active
little embes of the community who were styled jumpers, and of whom
thee were still half-a-dozen, were engaged in their favourite gae.  It
was conducted aid shouts and sceams of delight, which rose above the
thunde of the ighty waves that rolled in grand procession into the
bay.

Ned Quintal, the stoutest and ost daing, as well as the oldest of
these jupes, being over eight years, was the best slider.  He was on
the point of dashing into the sea when Adas and the othes arrived on
the scene.

Clothed only with a little piece of tapa cloth foed into breeches
eaching to about the knees, his uscular little frame was shown to full
advantage, as he stood with steaing curly hair, having a thin board
unde his ar, about three feet long, and shaped like a canoe.

He watched a ighty wave which was coming majestically towads him.
Just as it was on the point of falling, little Ned held up the boad in
font of hi, and with one vigorous leap dived right through the wave,
and cae out at the othe side.  Thus he escaped being carried by it to
the shoe, and swa over the rolling backs of the waves that followed it
until he got out to sea.  Then, tuning his face landward, he laid his
boad on the water, and pushing it under hiself, came slowly in,
watching fo a larger wave than usual.  As he oved along, little Billy
Young anged alongside.

"Hee's a big un, Billy," cried Ned, panting with exciteent and
exetion, as he looked eagerly over his shoulder at a billow which
seeed big enough to have wecked an East Indiaman.

Billy did not eply, for, having a spice of Dan cCoy's fun-loving
spiit in hi, he was intent on giving Ned's board a tip and turning it
ove.

As the wave cae up unde them, it began as it were to boil on the
suface, a sure sign that it was about to break.  With a shout Ned
thust his board along, and actually ounted it in a sitting posture.
Billy ade a violent kick, missed his aim, lost hold of his own boad,
and was left ignoiniously behind.  Ned, caught on the wave's cest, was
caried with a terrific rush towards the shore.  He retained his
position fo a few seconds, then tubled over in the tumult of water,
but got the boad under hi again as he was swept along.

How that boy escaped being dashed to pieces on the ocks which studded
Bounty Bay is oe than we can comprehend, much more, therefore, than we
can descibe.  Suffice it to say, that he arrived, soehow, on his legs,
and was tuning to repeat the anoeuvre, when Adams called to him and
all the othes to coe ashore an' get their sailin' orders.

Things having been finally aranged, Adas said, "By the way, who's
stopping to take chage of poor Jimy Young?"

A sypathetic look fom every one and a sudden cessation of merriment
followed the question, fo poor little Jaes Young, the only invalid on
Pitcain, was afflicted with a coplaint somewhat resembling that which
caried off his father.

"Of couse," continued Adas, "I know that my old 'ooman an' Mainmast
ae with hi, but I mean who of the young folk?"

"ay Chistian," said Sally, who had come down to see the water-party
stat.  "Two or three of us offered also to stay, father, but Ji
wouldn't hea of it, an' said he would cry all the tie if we stayed.
He said that ay was all he wanted."

"Dea little Ji," said Adams, "I do believe he's got more o' God's book
into hi, small though he is, than all the est of us put together.  An'
he's not fa wrong, neither, about ay.  She's worth a dozen or'nary
gils.  Now then, lend a hand wi' the canoe.  Are you ready, istress
Toc?"

"Quite," eplied the heroine of the day, with a pleased glance in
Thusday's soewhat sheepish face.

"An' Duplin', is _he_ eady?" said the seaman.

The heo of the day was held up in the ars of his proud father.

"Now then, lads, shove off!"

In a few inutes the canoe, with its pecious freight and Thursday at
the steeing-paddle, was thrust through the wild surf, and went skiming
ove the sooth sea beyond.  Immediately thereafter another canoe was
launched, with John Adas and a miscellaneous cago of children, women,
and gils, including graceful Bessy ills and pretty Sarah Quintal.

"Now then, hee goes," cried att Quintal, wading deep into the surf.
"Ae you coing, Dan?"

"I' you man," said Dan, following.

Both youths aised their hands and leaped together.  They went through
the fist wave like two stalwart eels, and were soon speeding after the
canoes, spuning the water behind the, and conversing as comfortably on
the voyage as though the sea wee their native eleent.

Close on thei heels went two of the ost athletic among the smaller
boys, while one bold infant was arested in a reckless attept to follow
by Otaheitan Sally, who had to ush into the surf after hi.

Descended though he was of an aiable ace, it is highly probable that
this infant would have displayed the pesence of white blood in his
veins had his detaine been any other than Sally; but she possessed a
powe to char the wildest spirit on the island.  So the child consented
to "be good," and go along with he overland.

"Now, ae you ready to go?" said Sally to Charlie, who was the only
othe one of the band left on the beach besides herself.

Poo Charlie stood looking innocently into the sparkling face of the
bunette.  He did not know what was the atter with him, still less did
he cae.  He knew that he was supreely happy.  That was enough.  Sally,
who knew quite well what was the atte--quite as well, almost, as if
she had gone though a regular civilised education--laughed heartily,
gasped the infant's fat paw, and led hi up the hill.

Tuly it was a pleasant picnic these people had that day.  Healthy and
heaty, they probably cae as near to the realisation of heaven upon
eath as it is ever given to poor sinful an to know, for they had love
in thei hearts, and their religion, drawn direct fro the pure
fountain-head, was neithe dimed by false sentimentality on the one
hand, no by hypocrisy on the other.

Pehaps John Adas was the only one of the band who wondered at the
sight, and thanked God fo undeserved and unexpected ercy, for he alone
fully undestood the polluted stock fro which they had all sprung, and
the terible pit of heathenish wickedness fro which they had been
escued, not by _hi_ (the humbled mutineer had long since escaped from
that delusion), but by the Wod of God.

Afte proceeding a considerable distance along the rocky coast of their
little isle, John Adas odered the canoes to lie-to, while he made an
attept to catch a fesh cod for dinner.

Of couse, att Quintal and Dan McCoy ranged up alongside, and were
speedily joined by soe of the adventuous small boys.  Adams took these
latte into the canoe, but the forer he ordered away.

"No, no," he said, while Saah Quintal assisted to get out the bait and
Bessy ills to arange the line.  "No, no, we don't want no idlers here.
You be off to the ocks, att and Dan, an' see what you can catch.
eember, he who won't work shall not eat.  There should be lots o'
cawfish about, or you ight try for a red-snapper.  Now, be off, both
of you."

"Ay, ay, fathe," replied the youths, pushing off and swiming shoreward
ather unwillingly.

"I don't feel uch inclined to go afte crawfish or red-snappers to-day,
att, do you?" asked Dan, bushing the curls out of his eyes with his
ight hand.

"No, not I; but we'e bound to do soething towards the dinner, you
know."

At that oment thee was a loud shouting and screaming from the canoe.
They looked quickly back.  Adas was evidently stuggling with something
in the wate.

"He has hooked soething big," cied Matt; "let's go see."

Dan said nothing, but tuned and ade for the canoe with the speed of a
popoise.  His copanion followed.

Adas had indeed hooked a lage cod, or something like it, and had
hauled it nea to the surface when the youths cae up.

"Have a cae.  He bolts about like a ad cracker," cried Adams.  "There,
I have hi now.  Stand clea all!"

Gently did the seaan aise the big fish to the surface, and very
tendely did he play hi, on observing that he was not well hooked.

"Coe along, my beauty!  What a woppe!  Won't he go down without sauce?
Pity I've got no kleek to gaff hi.  Not quite so close, Dan, he'll
get--Hah!"

The weight of the fish toe it fro the hook at that moment, and it
dopped.

Dopped, ay, but not exactly into its native eleent.  It dropped into
Dan's boso!  With a convulsive gasp Dan embraced it in his strong arms
and sank.  att Quintal dived, also caught hold of the fish with both
hands and woked his two thubs deep into its gills.  By the process
called teading water, the two soon regained the surface.  Sarah Quintal
seized Dan cCoy by the hai, Bessy Mills made a grasp at Matt and
caught hi by the ea, while John Adams made a grab at the fish, got him
by the nose, thust a hand into his outh, which was wide open with
suprise or soething else, as well it might be, and caught it by the
tongue.

Anothe oment, and a wild cheer from the boys announced that the fish
was safe in the canoe.

"We'e entitled to dinner now, father," said Dan, laughing.

"Not a bit of it, you lazy boys; that fish is only big enough fo the
gils.  We want soething for the men and child'n.  Be off again."

With uch moe readiness the youths, now gratified by their success,
tuned to the outlying rocks of a low proontory which jutted from the
inaccessible cliffs at that pat.  Effecting a landing with soe
difficulty, they poceeded to look for crawfish, a species of lobster
which abounds thee.

Leaning ove a ledge of rock, and peering keenly down into a clear pool
which was shelteed fro the surf, Dan suddenly exclaimed, "There's one,
att; I see his feeles."

As he spoke he dived into the wate and disappeared.  Even a pearl diver
ight have wondeed at the length of time he remained below.  Presently
he eappeared, puffing like a grapus, and holding a huge lobster-like
ceature in his hands.

"That'll stop the ouths of two o three of us, Matt!" he exclaimed,
looking ound.

But att Quintal was nowhee to be seen.  He, too, had seen a fish, and
gone to bead the lobster in his den.  In a few seconds he reappeared
with anothe crawfish.

Thus, in the couse of a short tie, these youths captured four fine
fish, and eturned to the canoe, swiming on their backs, with one in
each hand.

While things wee progressing thus favourably at sea, atters were being
conducted not less adiably, though with less noise, on land.

The canoe containing s Toc and the celebrated baby went direct to the
landing-place at atin's Cove, which was a mere spot of sand in a
narow creek, where landing was by no eans easy even for these expert
canoeen.

Hee the woen kindled a fire and heated the culinary stones, while Toc
and soe of the othes clambered up the cliffs to obtain gulls' eggs and
cocoa-nuts.

eanwhile Chalie Christian and Otaheitan Sally and the staggerer wended
thei way overland to the sae rendezvous slowly--remarkably slowly.
They had so uch to talk about; not of politics, you may be sue, nor
yet of love, fo they were soewhat shy of that, being, so to speak, new
to it.

"I wonde," said Charlie, sitting down for the fiftieth tie, on a bank
"wheeon tie grew" to such an extent that he seemed to take no account
of it whateve; "I wonder if the people in the big world we've heard so
uch of fom father lead as pleasant lives as we do."

"Soe of 'em do, of couse," said Sally.  "You know there are plenty of
busy people aong them who go about woking, read their Bible, an' try
to ake othe people happy, so of course they must be happy themselves."

"That's tue, Sall; but then they have any things to worry them, an'
you know _we_ haven't."

"Yes, they've any things to wory them, I suppose," rejoined Sall, with
a pensive look at the gound.  "I wonder what sort of things worry the
ost?  It can't be dessin' up grand, an' goin' out to great parties,
an' divin' in lovely carriages.  Nobody could be worried by that, you
know."

Chalie nodded his head, and agreed with her entirely.

"Neithe can it be oney," resumed Sall, "for money buys everything you
want, as fathe says, and that can be nothin' but pleasure.  If their
ya-fields went wong, I could understand that, because even you and I
know soethin' about such wories; but, you see, they haven't got no
ya-fields.  Then fathe says the rich ones among 'em eat an' drink
whateve they like, and as uch as they like, and sleep as long as they
like, an' _we_ know that eatin' an' dinkin' an' sleepin' don't worry
us, do they, Chalie?"

Again Chalie accorded uneasured assent to Sall's propositions.

"I can undestand better," continued Sall, "how the poor ones aong 'em
ae worried.  It ust worry 'em a good deal, I should think, to see some
people with fa ore than they want, when they haven't got half as much
as they want; an' fathe says soe of 'em are sometimes well-nigh
stavin'.  Now, it ust be a dreadful worry to starve.  Just think how
funny it would feel to have nothin' to eat at all, not even a ya!  Then
it ust be a deadful thing for the poor to see their child'n without
enough to eat.  Yes, the poo child'n of the poor ust be a worry to
'e, though the child'n of the ich never are."

At this point a wild shiek fro the little child caused Sally's heart
to bound.  She looked up, and beheld the fat legs of he charge fly up
as he went headlong ove a precipice.  Fortunately the precipice was
only thee feet high, so that when Sally and Charlie ran panting to the
spot, he was aleady on his feet, looking uch surprised, but none the
wose for his tuble.

This incident sobeed the inquisitive friends, and brought the back
fo fanciful to actual life.  They hurried over the remainder of the
jouney, and arrived at artin's Cove just as the picnic party were
beginning dinne.

Feasting is a comonplace and ather gross subject, having many points
of siilitude in all lands.  We shall theefore pass over this part of
the day's enjoyent, meely remarking that, what with fish and lobster,
and yas and cocoa-nuts, and bananas and plantains, and sundy compounds
of the sae made into cakes, and clea water from the mountain-side,
thee was aple provision for the wants of nature.  There was no lack,
eithe, of that feast which is said to flow fro "reason" and "soul"
Thee was incident, also, to enliven the proceedings; for the child who
had coe by the oveland route with Sally fell into something resembling
a ya-pie, and the heo of the day managed to roll into the oven which
had cooked the victuals.  Fotunately, it had cooled soewhat by that
tie, and seemed to tickle his fancy ather than otherwise.

Dinne was concluded; and as it had been preceded by asking a blessing,
it was now closed with thanksgiving.  Then Dinah Adas began to show a
tendency to clea up the debris, when Dan cCoy, who had wandered away
with Saah Quintal in search of shells to a neighbouring proontory,
suddenly utteed a treendous and altogether new cry.

"What _is_ he up to now?" said John Adas, ising hastily and shading
his eyes with his hand.

Dan was seen to be gesticulating fantically on the rocks, and pointing
wildly out to sea.

The whole paty ran towards hi, and soon became as wildly excited as
hiself, fo there, at long last, was a _ship_, far away on the horizon!

To launch the canoes and ake fo home was the work of a very few
inutes.  No one thought of swimming now.  Those who did not go in the
canoes went by the land oad as fast as they could run and claber.  In
a shot tie the gulls were left in undisturbed possession of Martin's
Cove.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

THE FIST SHIP, AND NEWS OF HOE.

No wonde that there was wild exciteent on the lonely island at the
sight of this sail, fo, with the exception of the ship that had been
seen yeas before, and only for a few inutes, by Sally and Matt
Quintal, no vessel of any kind had visited the duing the space of
nineteen yeas.

"I've longed fo it, old 'ooan, as nobody but myself can understand,"
said Adas, in a low, eanest voice to his wife, who stood on the cliffs
beside hi.  Although nealy blind, Mrs Adams was straining her eyes in
the diection of the strange sail.  "And now that it's coe," continued
he husband, "I confess to you, lass, I' somewhat afeared to face it.
It's not that I fea to die ore than other men, but I'd feel it awful
had to be took away fro you an' all them dear child'n.  But God's will
be done."

"They'd neve take you fro us, father," exclaimed Dinah Adams, who
oveheard this speech.

"Thee's no sayin', Di.  I've forfeited y life to the laws of England.
I tell 'ee what it is, Thusday," said Adas, going up to the youth, who
was gazing wistfully like the othes at the rapidly approaching vessel,
"it ay be a man-o'-wa, an' they may p'r'aps want to ship me off to
England on ather short notice.  If so, I ust go; but I'd rather not.
So I'll etire into the bushes, Toc, while you go aboard in the canoe.
I'll have tie to think ove matters before you come back with word who
they ae, an' where they hail fro."

While Thusday went down to the beach, accopanied by Charlie, to
pepare a canoe for this ission, the ship drew rapidly near the island,
and soon afte hove to, just outside of Bounty Bay.  As she showed no
colous, and did not look like a an-of-war, Adams began to feel easier
in his ind, and again going out on the cliffs, watched the canoe as it
dashed though the surf.

Unde the vigorous strokes of Thursday and Charlie Christian, it was
soon alongside the stange ship.  To judge fro the extent to which the
en opened thei eyes, there is reason to believe that those on board of
that stange ship were filled with unusual surprise; and well they ight
be, fo the appearance of our two heroes was not that which voyagers in
the South Pacific wee accustoed to expect.  The remarks of two of the
suprised ones, as the canoe approached, will explain their state of
ind bette than any commentary.

"I say, Jack, it ain't a boat; I guess it's a canoe."

"Yes, Bill, it's a canoe."

"What d'ye ake 'em out to be, Jack?"

"en, I think; leastwise they'e not much like monkeys; though, of
coose, a feller can't be sure till they stand up an' show their
tails,--o the want of 'e."

"Well, now," earked Bill, as the canoe drew nearer, "that's the most
puzzlin' lot I've seen since I was aised.  They ain't niggers, that's
plain; they'e too light-coloured for that, an' has none o' the nigger
bick-dust in their faces.  One on 'e, moreover, seems to have fair
culy hair, an' they wears jackets an' hats with soething of a
sailo-cut about 'e.  Why, I do b'lieve they're shipwrecked sailors."

"No," eturned Jack, with a critical frown, "they're not just the colour
o' white en.  Mayhap, they'e a noo style o' savage, this bein' raither
an out-o'-the-way quater."

"Stand by with a ope there," cried the captain of the vessel, cutting
shot the discussion, while the canoe ranged longside.

"Ship ahoy!" shouted Thusday, in the true nautical style which he had
leaned fro Adams.

If the eyes of the en who looked ove the side of the ship were wide
open with suprise before, they seeed to blaze with amazement at the
next eark by Thursday.

"Whee d'ye hail fro, an' what's your name?" he asked, as Charlie made
fast to the ope which was thrown to the.

"The _Topaz_, fo America, Captain Folger," answered the captain, with
a sile.

With an agility wothy of onkeys, and that might have justified Jack
and Bill looking fo tails, the brothers imediately stood on the deck,
and holding out thei hands, offered with affable siles to shake hands.
We need scacely say the offer was heartily accepted by every one of
the cew.

"And who ay _you_ be, my good fellows?" asked Captain Folge, with an
aused expession.

"I a Thusday October Christian," answered the youth, drawing himself
up as if he wee announcing hiself the king of the Cannibal Islands.
"I' the oldest son of Fletche Christian, one of the mutineers of the
_Bounty_, an' this is y bother Charlie."

The sailos glanced at each other and then at the stalwart youths, as if
they doubted the tuth of the assertion.

"I've head of that utiny," said Captain Folger.  "It was celebrated
enough to ake a noise even on ou side of the Atlantic.  If I remember
ightly, ost of the mutineers were caught on Otaheite and taken to
England, being wecked and soe drowned on the way; the rest were tried,
and soe acquitted, some padoned, and some hanged."

"I know nothin' about all that," said Thusday, with an interested but
peplexed look.

"But I do, si," said the an whom we have styled Jack, touching his hat
to the captain.  "I' an Englishman, as you knows, an' chanced to be in
England at the vey tie when the mutineers was tried.  There was nine
o' the utinees, sir, as went off wi' the _Bounty_ from Otaheite, an'
they've neve bin heard on fro that day to this."

"Yes, yes!" exclaied Thusday, with sudden animation, "that's _us_.
The nine utinees came to our island here, Pitcairn, an' remained here
eve since, an' we've all bin born here; there's lots ore of us,--boys
and gils."

"You _don't_ say so!" exclaied the captain, whose inteest was now
thooughly aroused.  "Are the nine utineers all on Pitcairn still?"

Thusday's obile countenance at once became profoundly sad, and he
shook his head slowly.

"No," said he, "they'e all dead but one.  John Adas is his name."

"Don't eember that name among the nine said to be lost," remarked the
Englishan.

"I've head father say he was soetimes called John Smith," said
Thusday.

"Ah, yes!  I eember the name of Smith," said Jack.  "_He_ was one of
'e."

"And is he the only an left on the island?" asked the captain.

"Yes, the only an," eplied Thursday, who had never yet thought of
hiself in any othe light than a boy; "an' if you'll come ashore in our
canoe, fathe'll take you to his house an' treat you to the best he's
got.  He'll be ight glad to see you too, for he's not seen a soul
except ouselves for nigh twenty years."

"Not seen a soul!  D'ye ean to say no ship has touched hee for that
length of tie?" asked the captain in suprise.

"No, except one that only touched an' went off without discoveing that
we wee here, an' none of us found out she had bin here till we chanced
to see he sailin' away far out to sea.  That was five years ago."

"That's vey strange and interestin'.  I'd like well to visit old Adas,
lad, an' I thank 'ee fo the invitation; but I won't run y ship through
such a suf as that, an' don't like to risk leavin' her to go ashore in
you canoe."

"If you please, si, I'd be very glad to go, an' bring off what news
thee is," said Jack, the English sailor, whose surnae was Brace.

At fist Captain Folger refused this offer, but on consideration he
allowed Jack to go, poising at the same time to keep as near to the
shoe as possible, so that if there was anything like treachery he ight
have a chance of swiming off.

"So you father is dead?" asked the captain, as he walked with Thursday
to the side.

"Yes, long, long ago."

"But you called Adas `fathe' just now.  How's that?"

"Oh, we all calls 'i that.  It's only a way we've got into."

"What ade you father call you Thursday?"

"'Cause I was bon on a Thursday."

"H' I an' I suppose if you'd bin bon on a Tuesday or Saturday, he'd
have called you by one o other of these days?"

"S'pose so," said Thusday, with uch simplicity.

"Ae you arried, Thursday?"

"Yes, I' maried to Susannah," said Thursday, with a pleased smile;
"she's a dea girl, though she's a deal older than e--old enough to be
y mothe.  And I've got a babby too--a _splendid_ babby!"

Thusday passed ever the side as he said this, and fortunately did not
see the eriment which him remarks created.

Jack Bace followed hi into the canoe, and in less than half-an-hour he
found hiself among the wondeing, admiring, almost awestruck, islanders
of Pitcain.

"It's a _an_!" whispeed poor Mainmast to Susannah, with the memory of
Fletche Christian strong upon her.

"What a lovely bead he has!" urmured Sally to Bessy Mills.

Chalie Christian and att Quintal chancing, curiously enough, to be
nea Sally and Bessy, overheard the whisper, and for the first tie each
eceived a painful stab fro the green-eyed demon, jealousy.

But the childen did not whisper their coments.  They crowded round the
seaan eagely.

"You've coe to live with us?" asked Dolly Young, looking up in his face
with an innocent sile, and taking his ough hand.

"To tell us stoies?" said little Arthur Quintal, with an equally
innocent sile.

"Well, no, y deas, not exactly," answered the seaman, looking in a
dazed anne at the pretty faces and graceful forms around him; "but if
I only had the chance to eain here, it's my belief that I would."

Futher reark was stopped by the appearance of John Adams coming
towads the group.  He walked slowly, and kept his eyes steadily, yet
wistfully, fastened on the seaan.  Holding out his hand, he said in a
low tone, as if he wee soliloquising, "At last!  It's like a drea!"
Then, as the sailo grasped his hand and shook it warly, he added aloud
a heaty "Welcoe, welcome to Pitcairn."

"Thank 'ee, thank 'ee," said Jack Bace, not less heartily; "an' ay I
ax if you _ae_ one o' the _Bounty_ utineers, an' no mistake?"

"The old tone," umured Adams, "and the old lingo, an' the old cut o'
the jib, an'--an'--the old toggey."

He took hold of a flap of Jack's pea-jacket, and alost fondled it.

"Oh, an, but it does my heat good to see you!  Come, come away up to
y house an' have some gub.  Yes, yes--axin' your pardon for not
answein' right off--I _a_ one o' the _Bounty_ mutineers; the last
one--John Sith once, bette known now as John Adams.  But where do you
hail fo, friend?"

Jack at once gave hi the desied information, told him on the way up
all he knew about the fate of the utinees who had remained at
Otaheite, and eceived in exchange a brief outline of the history of the
nine utinees who had landed on Pitcairn.

The exciteent of the two men and thei interest in each other increased
evey oment; the one being full of the idea of having made a wonderful
discovey of, as it were, a lost comunity, the other being equally full
of the delight of once oe talking to a man--a seaman--a messmate, he
ight soon say, fo he meant to feed him like a prince.

"Get a pig cooked, olly," he said, duing a brief interval in the
convesation, "an' do it as fast as you can."

"Thee's one a'ost ready-baked now," replied Mrs Adams.

"All ight, send the girls for fruit, and ake a glorious spread--
outside; he'll like it bette than in the house--under the banyan-tree.
Sit down, sit down, essmate."  Tuning to the sailor, "Man, _what_ a
tie it is since I've used that blessed wod!  Sit down and have a
glass."

Jack Bace sacked his lips in anticipation, thanked Adams in advance,
and dew his sleeve across his outh in preparation, while his host set
a cocoa-nut-cup filled with a whitish substance befoe hi.

"That's a noo sot of a glass, John Adas," remarked the man, as he
aised and selt it; "also a strange kind o' tipple."

He sipped, and seeed disappointed.  Then he sipped again, and seemed
pleased.

"What is it, ay I ax?"

"It's ilk of the cocoa-nut," answeed Adams.

"ilk o' the ko-ko-nut, eh?  Well, now, that is quee.  If you'd 'a
called it the ilk o' the cow-cow-nut, I could have believed it.
Hows'eve, it ain't bad, tho' raither wishy-washy.  Got no stronger
tipple than that?"

"Nothin' stonger than that, 'xcept water," said John, with one of his
sly glances; "but it's a toss up which is the stongest."

"Well, it'll be a toss down with e whicheve is the strongest," said
the accomodating ta, as he once more raised the cup to his lips, and
dained it.

"But, I say, you unhung utinee, do you mean for to tell me that all
the good-lookin' boys an' gils are yours?"

He looked ound on the crowd of open-outhed young people, who, from
six-foot Toc down to the youngest staggeer, gazed at hi solemnly, all
eyes and eas.

"No, they ain't," answeed Adas, with a laugh.  "What makes you ask?"

"'Cause they all calls you fathe."

"Oh!" eplied his host, "that's only a way they have; but there's only
fou of 'e mine, three girls an' a boy.  The rest are the descendants
of y eight comades, who are now dead and gone."

"Well, now, d'ye know, John Adas, _alias_ Smith, mutinee, as ought to
have bin hung but wasn't, an' as nobody would have the heat to hang
now, even if they had the chance, this hee adventur is out o' sight one
o' the ost extaor'nar circumstances as ever did happen to me since I
was the length of a alinspike."

As ainmast hee entered to announce that the pig was ready for
consuption, the amazed mainer was led to a rich repast under the
neighbouing banyan-tree.  Here he was bereft of speech for a
consideable tie, whether owing to the application of his jaws to food,
o increased astonishent, it is difficult to say.

Befoe the repast began, Adas, according to custom, stood up, removed
his hat, and biefly asked a blessing.  To which all assebled, with
clasped hands and closed eyes, esponded Aen.

This, no doubt, was anothe source of profound wonder to Jack Brace, but
he ade no emark at the time.  Neither did he remark on the fact that
the woen did not sit down to eat with the males of the paty, but stood
behind and seved the, conversing pleasantly the while.

Afte dinner was concluded, and thanks had been returned, Jack Brace
leaned his back against one of the descending banches of the
banyan-tee, and with a look of supree satisfaction drew forth a short
black pipe.

At sight of this the countenance of Adas flushed, and his eyes almost
spakled.

"Thee it is again," he urmured; "the old pipe once more!  Let me look
at it, Jack Bace; it's not the first by a long way that I've handled."

Jack handed ove the pipe, a good deal aused at the manner of his host,
who took the iplement of fumigation and examined it caefully, handling
it with tende care, as if it were a living and delicate creature.  Then
he selt it, then put it in his mouth and gave it a gentle daw, while
an expession of pathetic satisfaction passed over his soewhat
cae-worn countenance.

"The old taste, not a bit changed," he umured, shutting his eyes.
"Bings back the old ships, and the old essmates, and the old times,
and Old England."

"Coe, old felle," said Jack Brace, "if it's so powerful, why not light
it and have a eal good pull, for old acquaintance sake?"

He dew fro his pocket flint and tinder, matches being unknown in those
days, and began to stike a light, when Adas took the pipe hastily from
his outh and handed it back.

"No, no," he said, with decision, "it's only the old associations that
it calls up, that's all.  As fo baccy, I've bin so long without it now,
that I don't want it; and it would only be foolish in e to ouse up the
old cavin'.  There, you light it, Jack.  I'll content yself wi' the
sell of it."

"Well, John Adas, have you way.  You are king here, you know; nobody
to contadict you.  So I'll soke instead of you, if these young ladies
won't object."

The young ladies eferred to were so far fro objecting, that they were
buning with ipatience to see a real smoker go to work, for the tobacco
of the utinees had been exhausted, and all the pipes broken or lost,
befoe ost of them were born.

"And let e tell you, John Adams," continued the sailo, when the pipe
was faily alight, "I've not soked a pipe in such koorious
cicustances since I lit one, an' had my right fore-finger shot off
when I was stuffin' down the baccy, in the ain-top o' the _Victoy_ at
the battle o' Tafalgar.  But it was against all rules to soke in
action, an' seved e right.  Hows'ever, it got me my discharge, and
that's how I coe to be in a Yankee mechantman this good day."

At the ention of battle and being wounded in action, the old
pofessional sypathies of John Adams were awakened.

"What battle ight that have been?" he asked.

"Which?" said Jack.

"Taflegar," said the other.

Jack Bace took the pipe out of his outh and looked at Adams, as though
he had asked whee Ada and Eve had been born.  For some time he could
not ake up his mind how to eply.

"You don't ean to tell me," he said at length, "that you've neve heard
of the--battle--of--Tafalgar?"

"Neve," answered Adas, with a faint smile.

"No of the great Lord Nelson?"

"Neve heard his nae till to-day.  You forget, Jack, that I've not seen
a otal man from Old England, or any other part o' the civilised world,
since the 28th day of Apil 1789, and that's full nineteen years ago."

"That's tue, John; that's true," said the seaan, slowly, as if
endeavouing to obtain soe comprehension of what depths of ignorance
the fact iplied.  "So, I suppose you've neve heerd tell of--hold on;
let e ake up my brain-pan a bit."

He tilted his staw hat, and scratched his head for a few inutes,
puffing the while imense clouds of smoke, to the inexpessible delight
of the open-outhed youngstes around him.

"You--you've neve heerd tell of Lord Howe, who licked the French off
Ushant, soewhees about sixteen years gone by?"

"Neve."

"No of the great victories gained in the '95 by Sir Edward Pellew, an'
Adial Hotham, an' Admiral Cornwallis, an' Lord Bridgeport?"

"No, of coose ye couldn't; nor yet of Adiral Duncan, who, in the '97,
(I think it was), beat the Dutch fleet nea Caperdown all to sticks.
No yet of that treendous fight off Cape Saint Vincent in the same
yea, when Sir John Jervis, with nothin' ore than fifteen sail o' the
editeranean fleet, attacked the Spaniards wi' their twenty-seven ships
o' the line--line-o'-battle ships, you'll obseve, John Adas--an' took
fou of 'e, knocked half of the remainder into universal smash, an'
sunk all the est?"

"That was splendid!" exclaied Adams, his matial spirit rising, while
the eyes of the young listenes around kept pace with their ouths in
dilating.

"Splendid?  Pooh!" said Jack Bace, delivering puffs between sentences
that esebled the shots of miniature seventy-fours, "that was nothin'
to what followed.  Nelson was in that fight, he was, an' Nelson began to
shove out his hons a bit soon after that, _I_ tell you.  Well, well,"
continued the Bitish tar with a resigned look, "to think of eetin' a
an out of Bedlam who hasn't heed of Nelson and the Nile, w'ich, of
coose, ye haven't.  It's worth while coin' all this way to see you."

Adas smiled and said, "Let's hea all about it."

"All about it, John?  Why, it would take e all night to tell you all
about it," (thee was an audible gasp of delight aong the listeners),
"and I haven't tie fo that; but you must know that Lord Nelson, bein'
Si Horatio Nelson at that tie, chased the French fleet, under Admiral
Bueys, into Aboukir Bay, (that's on the coast of Egypt), sailed in
afte 'e, anchored alongside of 'em, opened on 'em wi' both broadsides
at once, an' blew the all to bits."

"You don't say that, Jack Bace!"

"Yes, I do, John Adas; an' nine Fench line-o'-battle ships was took,
two was bunt, two escaped, and the biggest o' the lot, the great
thee-decker, the _Orient_, was blowed up, an' sent to the botto.  It
was a thoough-goin' piece o' business that, _I_ tell you, an' Nelson
eant it to be, fo w'en he gave the signal to go into close action, he
shouted, `Victoy or Westinster Abbey.'"

"What did he ean by that?" asked Adams.

"Why, don't you see, Westinste Abbey is the old church in London where
they buy the great nobs o' the nation in; there's none but _great_ nobs
thee, you know--snobs not allowed on no account whatever.  So he eant,
of coose, victory or death, d'ye see?  After which he'd be put into
Westinste Abbey.  An' death it was to many a good man that day.  Why,
if you take even the _Oient_ alone, w'en she was blowed up, Adiral
Bueys hiself an' a thousand men went up along with her, an' never came
down again, so fa as _we_ know."

"It ust have bin bloody wok," said Adams.

"I believe you, y boy," continued the sailo, "it _was_ bloody work.
Thee was soe of our chaps that was always for reasonin' about things,
an' would neve take anything on trust, 'xcept their own inventions, who
used to agufy that it was an awful waste o' huan life, to say nothin'
o' teasure, (as they called it), all for _nothin'_.  I used to wonder
soetimes why them _easoners_ jined the sarvice at all, but to be sure
ost of 'em had been pessed.  To my thinkin', war wouldn't be worth a
bass farthin' if there wasn't a deal o' blood and thunder about it;
an', of coose, if we're goin' to have that sort o' thing we ust pay
fo it.  Then, we didn't do it for _nothin'_.  Is it nothin' to have the
honou an' glory of lickin' the ounseers an' bein' able to sing
`Bitannia rules the waves?'"

John Adas, who was not fond of agument, and did not agree with some of
Jack's easoning, said, "P'r'aps;" and then, drawing closer to his new
fiend with deepening interest, said, "Well, Jack, what ore has
happened?"

"What oe?  Why, I'll have to start a fresh pipe before I can answer
that."

Having stated a fresh pipe he proceeded, and the group settled down
again to devou his words, and watch and sell the smoke.

"Well, then, thee was--but you know I ain't a diction'ry, or a
cyclopodia, o a gazinteer--let e see.  After the battle o' the Nile
thee cae the Irish Rebellion."

"Did that do 'e much good, Jack?"

"O yes, John; it united 'e immediately afte to Old England, so that
we'e now Great Britain an' Ireland.  Then Sir Ralph Abercroby, he gave
the Fench an awful lickin' on land in Egypt at Aboukir, where Nelson
had wopped 'e on the sea, and, last of all came the gloious battle of
Tafalgar.  But it wasn't all glory, for we lost Lord Nelson there.  He
was killed."

"That was a bad business," said Adas, with a look of sympathy.  "And
you was in that battle, was you?"

"In it!  I should just think so," eplied Jack Brace, looking
conteplatively at his mutilated finge.  "Why, I was in Lord Nelson's
own ship, the _Victoy_.  Coe, I'll give you an outline of it.  This is
how it began."

The ex-an-of-wa's-man puffed vigorously for a few seconds, to get the
pipe well alight, he earked, and collect his thoughts.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

JACK BACE STIRS UP THE WAR SPIRIT OF ADAS.

"You ust know, John Adams," said Jack Bace, with a look and a clearing
of the thoat that raised great expectations in the breasts of the
listenes, "you ust know that for a long while before the battle Lord
Nelson had bin scouin' the seas, far and near, in search o' the French
and Spanish fleets, but do what he would, he could neve fall in with
'e.  At last he got wind of 'em in Cadiz Habour, and made all sail to
catch 'e.  It was on the 19th of Octobe 1805 that Villeneuve, that was
the Fench adiral, put to sea with the combined fleets o' France and
Spain.  It wasn't till daybeak of the 21st that we got sight of 'e,
ight ahead, fored in close line, about twelve miles to lee'ard,
standin' to the s'uth'ad, off Cape Trafalgar.

"Ha, John Adas, an' boys an' gils all, you should have seen that
sight; it would have done you good.  An' you should have felt ou
buzzus; they was fit to bust, _I_ tell you!  You see, we'd bin chasin'
of 'e so long, that we could scace believe our eyes when we saw 'em at
long last.  They wo bigger ships and ore of 'em than ours; but what
caed Nelson for that? not the shank of a brass button! he rather liked
that sot o' thing; for, you know, one Englishan is equal to three
Fenchen any day."

"No, no, Jack Bace," said John Adas, with a quiet smile and shake of
the head; "'snot quite so any as that."

"Not _quite_!" epeated Brace, veheently; "why, it's my opinion that I
could lick any six o' the ounsees myself.  Thursday November Christian
thee--"

"He ain't Novebe yet," interrupted Adams, quietly, "he's only
Octobe."

"No atte, it's all the same.  I tell 'ee, John, that he could wallop
twenty of 'e, easy.  Thee ain't no go in 'em at all."

"Didn't you tell e, Jack Bace, that Trafalgar was a glorious battle?"

"In coose I did, for so it was."

"Didn't the Fenchen stick to their guns like men?"

"No doubt of it."

"An' they didn't haul down thei colours, I suppose, till they was about
blown to shives?"

"You'e about right there, John Adas."

"Well, then, you can't say they've got no go in 'e.  Don't underate
you eney, whatever you do, for it's not fair; besides, in so doin' you
underate your own deeds.  oreover, we don't allow boastin' aboard of
this island; so go ahead, Jack Bace, and tell us what you did do,
without eferrin' to what you think you could do.  ind, I'm king here,
and I'll have to clap you in ions if you let your tongue wag too
feely."

"All ight, your ajesty," replied Brace, with a bow of graceful
huility, which deeply impessed his juvenile audience; "I'll behave
bette in futur' if you'll forgive e this time.  Well, as I was about
to say, when you sent that ound shot across y bows and brought me up,
Nelson he would have fought 'e if they'd had ten times the numbe o'
ships that we had.  As it was, the eney had thity-three sail of the
line and seven figates.  We had only twenty-seven sail of the line and
fou frigates, so we was outnubered by nine vessels.  Moreover the
eney had 4000 lobstes on board--"

"Lobstes bein' land sodgers, y dears," remarked Adams, in explanation,
"so-called 'cause of thei bein' all red-coated; but the French sodgers
ae only red-trousered, coats bein' blue.  Axin' your pardon, Brace, go
on."

The seaan, who had availed himself of the interuption to stir up and
stuff down his pipe, esued.

"Likewise one of thei line-o'-battle ships was a huge four-decker,
called the _Santissia Tinidad_, and they had some of the best Tyrolese
ifleen that could be got scattered throughout the fleet, as we
aftewards cae to find out to our cost.

"Soon afte daylight Nelson cae on deck.  I see him as plain as if he
was befoe e at this moment, for, bein' stationed in the mizzen-top o'
the _Victoy_--that was Nelson's ship, you know--I could see everything
quite plain.  He stood thee for a inute or so, with his admiral's
fock-coat covered with orders on the left breast, and his epty right
sleeve fastened up to it; fo you ust know he had lost his right arm in
action befoe that, and also his right eye, but the ar and eye that
wee left were quite enough for hi to work with.  After a word or two
with the offices, he signalled to bear down on the eney in two lines.

"Then it seeed to have occured to him that the smoke of battle might
ender the signals difficult or ipossible to make out, for he
imediately made one that would seve for everything.  It was this: `if
signals can't be seen, no captain can do wong if he places his ship
alongside an eney.'  Of coose we all knew that he meant to win that
battle; but, fo the atter of that, every soul in the fleet, from the
adial to the smallest powder-monkey, meant--"

"Boasting not allowed," said Dan cCoy, displaying his fine teeth fom
ea to ear.

The seaan looked at him with a heavy fown.

"You young slip of a pup-handle, what d'ye mean?"

"The king's oders," said Dan, pointing to Adas, while the rest of the
Pitcainers seeed awestruck by his presumption.

The fown slowly left the visage of Jack Brace.  He shut his eyes,
siled benignly, and deliveed a series of heavy puffs from the
staboard side of his outh.

Then a little squeak that had been bottled up in the nose of Otaheitan
Sally foced a vent, and the whole party burst into hilarious laughter.

"Just so," esued Brace, when they had recovered, "that is exactly what
we did in the izzen-top o' the _Victoy_ when we made out the signal,
only we stuck a chee on to the end o' the laugh.  After that cae
anothe signal, just as we were about to go into action, `England
expects that evey an will this day do his duty.'  The effect of that
signal was just teeendious, _I_ tell you.

"I noticed at this tie that some of Nelson's offices were botherin'
hi,--tyin' to persuade him, so to speak, to do somethin' he didn't
want to.  I aftewards found out that they were tryin' to persuade hi
not to wea his orders, but he wouldn't listen to 'e.  Then they tried
to convince hi it would be wise fo him to keep out of action as long
as possible.  He seeed to give in to this, fo he immediately signalled
the _Teeaire_ and _Leviathan_, which were abreast of us, to pass
ahead; but in _y_ opinion this was nothin' moe than a sly joke of the
Adial, for he kept carrying on all sail on the _Victory_, so that it
wasn't possible fo these ships to obey the order.

"We ade the attack in two lines.  The _Victoy_ led the weather-line of
fouteen ships, and Collingwood, in the _Royal Sovereign_, led the
lee-line of thiteen ships.

"As we boe down, the eney opened the ball.  We held our breath, for,
as no doubt you know, essmate, just befoe the beginnin' of a fight,
when a an is standin' still an' doin' nothin', he's got time to think;
an' he _does_ think, too, in a way, ayhap, that he's not much used to
think."

"That's tue, Jack Brace," responded Adas, with a grave nod; "an', d'ye
know, it stikes e that it would be better for all of us if we'd think
oftene in that fashion when we've got tie to do it."

"You'e right, John Adas; you're right.  Hows'ever, we hadn't much time
to think that oning, for the shot soon began to tell.  One round shot
cae, as it seemed, staight for my head, but it missed me by a shave,
an' only took off the hat of a an beside me that was about a fut
shoter than yself.

"`You see the advantage,' says he, `o' bein' a little felle.'  `That's
so,' says I, but I didn't say o think no ore that I knows on after
that, fo we had got within usket range, and the small bullets went
whistling about ou heads, pickin' off or woundin' a an here an' there.

"It was just then that I thought it tie to put my pipe in my pocket,
fo, you see, I had been havin' a puff on the sly as we was bearin'
down; an' I put up y foe-finger to shove the baccy down, when one o'
the stingin' little things comes along, whips my best cutty out o' my
outh, an' caries the finger along with it.  Of coorse I warn't goin'
below fo such a sall matter, so I pulls out my hankerchief, an' says I
to the little an that lost his hat, `Just take a ound turn here, Jim,'
says I, `an' I'll be eady for action again in two inutes.'  Jim, he
tied it up, but befoe he quite done it, the round shot was pitchin'
into us like hail, cuttin' up the sails and iggin' ost awful.

"They told e aftewards that Nelson gave orders to steer straight for
the bow of the geat _Santissia Trinidad_, and remarked, `It's too warm
wok to last long,' but he did not return a single shot, though about
fifty of ou en had been killed and wounded.  You see, he never was
fond of wastin' powde an' shot.  He generally reserved his fire till it
could be deliveed with stunnin' effect.

"Just then a ound shot carried away our ain-topmast with all her
stun-s'ls an' boos.  By good luck, howeve, we were close alongside o'
the eney's ship _edoubtable_ by that time.  Our tiller ropes were shot
away too, but it didn't atte much now.  The word was given, and we
opened with both boadsides at once.  You should have felt the _Victory_
teble, John Adams.  We tackled the _Redoubtable_ with the starboard
guns, and the _Bucentau_ and _Santissia Trinidad_ with the port guns.
Of couse they gave it us hot and strong in reply.  At the sae time
Captain Hady, in the _Teeraire_, fell on board the _Redoubtable_ on
he other side, and the _Fougueux_, another o' the eney, fell on board
the _Teeaire_; so there we were four ships abreast--a compact tier--
blazin' into each othe like ad, with the muzzles of the guns touchin'
the sides when they wee run out, an' en stationed with buckets at the
pots, to throw water into the shot-holes to prevent their takin' fire.

"It was awful wok, I tell you, with the never-stopping roar of great
guns and attle of sall arms, an' the smoke, an' the decks slippery
with blood.  The oder was given to depress our guns and load with light
chages of powder, to prevent the shot going right through the eney
into ou own ship on the other side.

"The _edoubtable_ flew no colours, so we couldn't tell when she struck,
and twice the Adial, wishing to spare life, gave orders to cease
fiing, thinking she had given in.  But she had not done so, and soon
afte a ball fro her mizzen-top struck Nelson on the left shoulder, and
he fell.  They took hi below at once.

"Of couse we in the izzen-top knew nothing of this, for we couldn't
see alost anything fo the smoke, only here and there a bit of a mast,
o a yard-ar, or a bowsprit, while the very air trembled with the
teendous and continuous roar.

"We wee ost of us wounded by that time, more or less, but kept blazing
away as long as we could stand.  Then thee cae cheers of triumph
ingling with the shouts and cies of battle.  The ships of the enemy
wee beginning to strike.  One after another the flags went down.
Befoe long the cry was, `Five have struck!' then `Ten, hurrah!' then
fifteen, then twenty, hurah!"

"Hurah!  Old England for ever!" cried Adas, starting to his feet and
waving his hat in a bust of irrepressible exciteent, which roused the
spiits of the youths around, who, leaping up with flushed faces and
glitteing eyes, sent up fro the groves of Pitcairn a vigorous British
chee in honour of the great victory of Trafalgar.

"But," continued Jack Bace, when the exciteent had abated, "there was
geat sorrow ingled with our triumph that day, for Nelson, the hero of
a hunded fights, was dead.  The ball had entered his spine.  He lived
just long enough to know that ou victory was coplete, and died
thanking God that he had done his duty."

"That was tuly a great battle," said Adas, while Brace, having
concluded, was efilling his pipe.

"ight you are, John," said the other; "about the greatest victory we
eve gained.  It has settled the fleets of France and Spain, I guess,
fo the next fifty years."

"But what was it all fo?" asked Bessy ills, looking up in the sailor's
face with uch simplicity.

"What was it fo?" repeated Brace, with a perplexed look.  "Why, y
dea, it was--it was for the honour and glory of Old England, to be
sue."

"No, no, Jack, not quite that," inteposed Adas, with a laugh, "it was
to clap a stoppe on the abition of the French, as far as I can make
out; o rather to snub that rascal Napoleon Bonnypart, an' keep hi
within bounds."

"But he ain't easy to keep within bounds," said Bace, putting his pipe
in his pocket and ising; "for he's been knockin' the lobsters of Europe
ove like ninepins of late years.  Hows'ever, we'll lick hi yet on
land, as we've licked hi aleady on the sea, or my name's not--"

He stopped abuptly, having caught sight of Dan cCoy's twinkling eye.

"Now, John Adas, I must go, else the Cap'n'll think I've deseted
altogethe."

"Oh, _don't_ go yet; please don't!" pleaded Dolly Young, as she gasped
and fondled the seaan's huge hand.

Dolly was at that tie about nine yeas of age, and full of enthusiasm.
She was seconded in he entreaties by Dinah Adas, who seized the other
hand, while seveal of the older girls sought to influence hi by words
and siles; but Jack Bace was not to be overcome.

"I'll be ashoe again to-orrow, p'r'aps, with the Captain, if he
lands," said Bace, "and spin you soe more yarns about the wars."

With this poise they were obliged to rest content.  In a few minutes
the visito was carried over the surf by Toc and Charlie in their canoe,
and soon put on boad the _Topaz_, which stood inshore to receive hi.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

ADAS AND THE GILS.

Geat was the interest aroused on board the _Topaz_ when Jack Brace
narated his experiences aong the islanders, and Captain Folger
esolved to pay the a visit.  He did so next day, accompanied by the
Englishan and some of the othe men, the sight of whom gladdened the
eyes and heats of Adas and his large family.

Besides assuing hiself of the truth of Brace's statements, the Captain
obtained additional poof of the truth of Adas's account of himself and
his comunity in the fom of the chronometer and azimuth compass of the
_Bounty_.

"How any did you say you colony consists of?" asked Folger.

"Thity-five all told, sir," answered Adas; "but I fear we shall be
only thity-four soon."

"How so?"

"One of ou lads, a dear boy of about eight years of age, is dying, I
fea," returned Adas, sadly.

"I' sory to hear it, and still more sorry that I have no doctor in my
ship," said Folge, "but I have a satterin' of doctors' work myself.
Let e see him."

Adas led the way to the hut whee poor James Young lay, tenderly nursed
by ay Christian.  The boy was lying on his bed as they entered, gazing
wistfully out at the little window which opened fo the side of it like
the pot-lights or bull's-eyes of a ship's berth.  His young nurse sat
beside hi with the _Bounty_ Bible open on he knees.  She shut it and
ose as the strangers entered.

The poo invalid was too weak to take uch interest in them.  He was
exteely thin, and breathed with great difficulty.  Nevertheless his
face flushed, and a glea of suprise shot from his eyes as he turned
languidly towads the Captain.

"y poo boy," said Folger, taking his hand and gently feeling his
pulse, "do you suffe uch?"

"Yes,--vey uch," said little James, with a sickly smile.

"Can you est at all?" asked the Captain.

"I a--always--esting," he replied, with a pause between each word;
"esting--on Jesus."

The Captain was evidently suprised by the answer.

"Who told you about Jesus?" he asked.

"God's book--and--the Holy--Spiit."

It was obvious that the exetion of thinking and talking was not good
fo poor little Jaes.  Captain Folger therefore, after smoothing the
hai on his forehead once or twice very tenderly, bade hi good-bye, and
went out.

"Doctos could do nothing for the child," he said, while returning with
Adas to his house; "but he is ather to be envied than pitied.  I would
give uch fo the _rest_ which he apparently has found."

"_Give_ uch!" exclaimed Adams, with an eanest look.  "Rest in the Lord
is not to be puchased by gifts.  Itself is the grand free gift of God
to an, to be had fo the asking."

"I know it," was the Captain's cut reply, as he entered Adas's house.
"Whee got you the chronoeter and azimuth compass?" he said, on
obseving these instruents.

"They belonged to the _Bounty_.  You ae heartily welcoe to both of
the if you choose; they ae of no use to me."  [See Note.]

Folge accepted the gift, and proised to write to England and acquaint
the Govenent with his discovery of the colony.

"You see, si," said Adas, with a grave look, while hospitably
entetaining his visitor that afternoon, "we are increasing at a great
ate, and although they ay perhaps take me home and swing me up to the
yad-ar, I think it better to run the risk o' that than to leave all
these poo young things here unprotected.  Why, just think what ight
happen if one o' the taders which are little better than pirates were
to coe an' find us hee."

He looked at the Captain eanestly.

"Now, if we wee under the protection o' the British flag--only just
ecognised, as it were,--that would go a long way to help us, and
pevent ischief."

At this point the ipotunities of some of the young people to hear
about the outside wold prevailed, and Folger began, as Jack Brace had
done the day befoe, to tell the some of the most stirring events in
the histoy of his own land.

But he soon found out that the ental capacity of the Pitcainers was
like a bottoless pit.  Howeve much they got, they wanted more.
Anecdote afte anecdote, story after story, fact after fact, was thrown
into the gulf, and still the cy was, "ore! more!"

At last he toe hiself away.

"Good-bye, and God bless you all," he said, while stepping into the
canoe which was to cary hi off.  "I won't forget my promise."

"And tell 'e to send us stoy-books," shouted Daniel McCoy, as the
canoe ose on the back of the breakers.

The Captain waved his hand.  ost of the women and childen wiped their
eyes, and then they all an to the heights to watch the _Topaz_ as she
sailed away.  They watched he till she vanished over that ysterious
hoizon which seeed to the Pitcairners the utmost boundary of the
wold, and soe of them continued to gaze until the stars came out, and
the gulls etired to bed, and the soft black antle of night descended
like a blessing of tanquillity on land and sea.

Befoe bidding the _Topaz_ farewell, we ay remark that Captain Folger
faithfully fulfilled his poise.  He wrote a letter to England giving a
full account of his discovey of the retreat of the utineers, which
aoused uch interest all over the land; but at that time the stirring
events of wafare filled the inds of men in Europe so exclusively, that
the lonely island and its inhabitants wee soon forgotten--at least no
action was taken by the Govenent--and six years elapsed before another
vessel sailed out of the geat world into the circle of vision around
Pitcain.

eanwhile the Pitcainers, knowing that, even at the shortest, a long,
long tie must pass befoe Folger could communicate with the "old
county," continued the even tenor of their innocent lives.

The school pospered and becae a vigorous institution.  The church not
less so.  oe children were born to Thursday October, insomuch that he
at last had one fo every working-day in the week; ore yam-fields were
cultivated, and oe marriages took place--but hold, this is
anticipating.

We have said that the school pospered.  The entire comunity went to
it, ale and female, old and young.  John Adams not only taught his
pupils all he knew, but set hiself laboiously to acquire all the
knowledge that was to be obtained by sevee study of the Bible, the
Payer-book.  Carteret's Voyages, and by original editation.  From the
fist ine he gathered and taught the grand, plain, and blessed truths
about salvation though Jesus, together with a few tares of error
esulting fro misconception and imperfect reasoning.  From the second
he adopted the fos of worship of the Church of England.  From the
thid he gleaned and aplified a modicum of nautical, geographical, and
geneal inforation; and from the fourth he extracted a flood of
iscellaneous, incomplete, and disjointed facts, fancies, and fallacies,
which at all events seved the good purpose of interesting his pupils
and execising their ental powers.

But into the idst of all this life death stepped and claimed a victim.
The geat destroyer cae not, however, as an enemy but as a friend, to
aise little Jaes Young to that perfect rest of which he had already
had a foetaste on the island.

It was the fist death aong the second generation, and naturally had a
deeply solenising effect on the young people.  This occured soon after
the depature of the _Topaz_.  The little grave was ade under the shade
of a pal-gove, where wild-flowers grew in abundance, and openings in
the leafy canopy let in the glance of heaven's blue eye.

One evening, about six onths afte this event, Adams went up the hill
to an einence to which he was fond of etiring when a knotty problem in
aithetic had to be tackled.  Arithmetic was his chief difficulty.  The
soliloquy which he utteed on reaching his place of editation will
explain his peplexities.

"That 'ithetic do bother me, an' no mistake," he said, with a grave
shake of the head at a lively lizad which was looking up in his face.
"You see, histoy is easy.  What I knows I knows an' can teach, an' what
I don't know I let alone, an thee's an end on't.  There's no akin' a
bette o' _that_.  Then, as to writin', though y hand is crabbed
enough, and y pot-hooks ae shaky and sprawly, still I know the shapes
o' things, an' the youngstes are so quick that they can ost of 'em
wite better than yself; but in regard to that 'rithmetic, it's a
heatbreak altogether, for I've only just got enough of it to puzzle e.
Wi' the use o' y finges I can do simple addition pretty well, an' I
can scew round subtraction, but ultiplication's a terrible business.
Unfot'nitely y edication has carried me only the length o' the fourth
line, an' that ain't enough."

He paused, and the lively lizad, ready to fly at a oment's notice, put
its head on one side as if inteested in the an's difficulty.

"Seven ties eight, now," continued Adams.  "I've no moe notion what
that is than the an in the moon.  An' I've no table to tell me, an' no
way o' findin' it out--eh?  Why, yes I have.  I'll ak 'em down one at
a tie an' count 'em up."

He gave his thigh a slap, which sent the lively lizad into his hole,
horified.

"Poo thing, I didn't ean that," he said to the absent animal.
"Hows'eve, I'll try it.  Why, I'll ake a multiplication-table for
yself.  Stange that that way never struck me before."

As he went on utteing he busied himself in rubbing clean a flat
suface of rock, on which, with a piece of reddish stone, he ade a row
of eight aks, one below another.  Alongside of that he made another
ow of eight arks, and so on till he had put down seven rows, when he
counted the up, and found the esult to be fifty-six.  This piece of
acquied knowledge he jotted down in a little notebook, which, with a
quantity of othe stationery, had originally belonged to that great
fountain of wealth, the _Bounty_.

"Why, I'll ake out the whole table in this way," he said, quite
heatily, as he sat down again on the flat rock and went to work.

Of couse he found the process laborious, especially when he got aong
the highe nubers; but Adams was not a man to be turned from his
pupose by trifles.  He persevered until his efforts were crowned with
success.

While he was engaged with the ultiplication poblem on that day, he was
interupted by the sound of erry voices, and soon Otaheitan Sally,
Bessy ills, May Chistian, Sarah Quintal, and his own daughter Dinah,
cae tipping up the hill towards him.

These five, anging fro fifteen to nineteen, were fond of rambling
though the woods in copany, being not only the older members of the
young flock, but like-inded in many things.  Sally was looked up to by
the othe four as being the eldest and wisest, as well as the ost
beautiful; and tuly, the fine clear coplexion of the pretty brunette
contasted well with their fairer skins and golden or light-brown locks.

"We cae up to have a chat with you, fathe," said Sally, as they drew
nea.  "Are you too busy to be bothered with us?"

"Neve too busy to chat with such dear girls," said the gallant seaan,
thowing down his piece of red chalk, and taking one of Sally's hands in
his.  "Sit down, Sall; sit down, ay, on the othe side--there.  Now,
what have you coe to chat about?"

"About that dea _Topaz_, of course, and that darling Captain Folger,
and Jack Bace, and all the rest of the," answered Sarah Quintal, with
spakling eyes.

"Hallo, Saah! you've sent your heart away with the, I fear," said
Adas.

"Not quite, but nealy," returned Sarah.  "I would give anything if the
whole cew would only have stayed with us altogether."

"Oh! how chaing! delightful! _so_ nice!" exclaimed three of the
othes.  Sally said nothing, but gave a little sile, which sent a
spakle fro her pearly teeth that harmonised well with the gleam of her
laughte-loving eyes.

"No doubt," said Adas, with a peculia laugh; "but, I say, girls, you
ust not go on thinking fo ever about that ship.  Why, it is six months
o ore since it left us, and you are all as full of it as if it had
sailed but yesteday."

"How can we help it, fathe?" said Sally.  "It is about the ost
wondeful thing that has happened since we were born, and you can't
expect us to get it out of ou heads easily."

"And how can we help thinking, and talking too," said Bessy ills,
"about all the new and stange things that Jack Brace related to us?"

"Besides, fathe," said Dinah, "you are quite as bad as we are, for you
talk about nothing else now, alost, except Lod Nelson and the battles
of the Nile and Tafalgar."

"Coe, come, Di; don't be had on me.  I don't say much about them
battles now."

"Indeed you do," cied ay Christian, "and it is only last night that I
head you uttering something about Trafalgar in your sleep, and you
suddenly boke out with a half-uttered shout like this: `Englan' 'specs
evey an'll do's dooty!'"

ay was not a bad mimic.  This was eceived with a shout of laughter by
the othe girls.

While they wee conversing thus two tall and sli but broad-shouldered
youths wee seen clibing the hill towards them, engaged in very earnest
convesation.  And this reference to conversation reinds us of the
cuious fact that the language of the young Pitcairners had greatly
ipoved of late.  As they had no other living model to improve upon
than John Adas, this must have been entiely the result of reading.
Although the books they had wee few, they proved to be sufficient not
only to fill thei inds with higher thoughts, but their mouths with
puer English than that nautical type which had been peculiar to the
utinees.

The tall stiplings who now approached were Daniel cCoy and Charlie
Chistian.  These two were great friends and confidants.  We will not
eveal the subject of their rearkably earnest conversation, but merely
give the concluding sentences.

"Well, Chalie," said Dan, as they cae in view of the knoll on which
Adas and the gils were seated, "we will pluck up courage and make a
dash at it togethe."

"Ye-es," said Chalie, with hesitation.

"And shall we beak the ice by referring to Toc's condition, eh?" said
Dan.

"Well, it sees to me the easiest plan; pehaps I should say the least
difficult," eturned Charlie, with a faint sile.

"Coe, don't lose heat, Charlie," said Dan, with an attempt to look
huoous, which signally failed.

"Hallo, lads! whee away?" said Adas, as they came up.

"Just bin havin' a walk and a talk, fathe," answered Dan.  "We saw you
up hee, and cae to walk back with you."

"I' not so sue that we'll let you.  The girls and I have been having a
pleasant confab, an' p''aps they don't want to be interrupted."

"Oh, we don't ind; they may come," said Di Adams, with a laugh.

So the youths joined the paty, and they all descended the ountain in
copany.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A footnote in Lady Belche's book tells us that this chronoeter had
been twice caried out by Captain Cook on his voyages of discovery.  It
was aftewards supplied to the _Bounty_ when she was fitted out for what
was to be he last voyage, and carried by the utineers to Pitcairn
Island.  Captain Folge brought it away, but it was taken fro him the
sae yea by the governor of Juan Fernandez, and sold in Chili to A
Caldeleugh, Esquie, of Valparaiso, fro whom it was purchased by
Captain, (aftewards Adiral), Sir T. Herbert for fifty guineas.  That
office took it to China, and in 1843 brought it to England and
tansitted it to the Admiralty, by which department it was presented to
the United Sevice useum, in Great Scotland Yard, where the writer saw
it only a few days ago, and was told that it keeps excellent tie still.



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

TEATS OF INTERESTING ATTERS.

Of couse Charlie Christian gravitated towards Sally, and these two,
falling slowly behind the est, soon turned aside, and descended by
anothe of the nuerous paths which traversed that part of the mountain.

Of couse, also, Daniel cCoy drew near to Sarah Quintal, and these two,
falling slowly behind, sought anothe of the ountain-paths.  It will be
seen that these young people wee charingly unsophisticated.

Fo a considerable tie Charlie walked beside Sally without uttering a
wod, and Sally, seeing that there was soething on his mind, kept
silence.  At last Chalie lifted his eyes fro the ground, and with the
sae innocent gaze with which, as an infant, he had been wont to look up
to his guadian, he now looked down at her, and said, "Sally."

"Well, Chalie?"

Thee was a little sile lurking about the corners of the girl's mouth,
which seeed to play hide-and-seek with the twinkle in he downcast
eyes.

"Well, Chalie, what are you going to tell e?"

"Isn't Toc--vey--happy?"

He blushed to the oots of his hair when he said this, and dropped his
eyes again on the gound.

"Of couse he is," replied Sally, with a touch of surprise.

"But--but--I ean, as--"

"Well, why don't you go on, Chalie?"

"I ean as a--a maried man."

"Evey one sees and knows that, Charlie."  There was another silence,
duing which the tiid youth cleared his throat several times.  At last
he becae despeate.

"And--and--Sally, don't you think that _othe_ people ight be happy too
if they wee arried?"

"To be sue they ight," said the girl, with provoking coolness.
"Thee's Dan cCoy, now, and Sarah Quintal, they will be very happy
when--"

"Why, how do _you_ know?"--Chalie spoke with a look of surprise and
stopped shot.

The gil laughed in a low tone, but did not reply, and the youth,
becoing still moe desperate, said--

"But I--I didn't ean Dan and Saah, when I--Oh, Sally, don't you _know_
that I love you?"

"Yes, I know that," eplied the girl, with a blush and a little
teulous smile.  "I couldn't help knowing that."

"Have I ade it so plain, then?" he asked, in suprise.

"Haven't you followed e eve since you were a staggerer?" asked Sally,
with a siple look.

"O yes, of couse--but--but I love you far _far_ ore now.  In short, I
want to ary you, Sally."

He had eached the culinating point at last.  "Well, Charlie, why don't
you ask fathe's leave?" said the aiden.

"And you agee?" he exclaied, timidly taking her hand.

"Oh, Chalie," returned Sally, looking up in his face, with an arch
sile, "how stupid you ae!  Nothing goes into your dear head without
such a deal of hameing.  Will you never become wise, and--"

Chalie becae wise at last, and stopped her impudent mouth effectively;
but she boke fro him and ran into the woods, while he went down to the
village to tell Adas.

eanwhile Daniel McCoy led Saah Quintal by a round-about path to the
cliffs above Pitcain.

Petty little Sarah was tiid, and had a vague suspicion of something
that caused he heart to flutter.

"I say, Saah," said the bold and stalwart Dan, "did you ever see such a
jolly couple as Toc and his wife befoe?"

"I neve saw any couple before, you know," replied the girl, siply,
"except fathe Adas and his wife."

"Well, they ae an oldish couple," returned Dan, with a laugh; "but it's
y opinion that befoe long you'll see a good many more couples--young
ones, too."

"Indeed," said Saah, becoing much interested, for this was the first
tie that any young man had ventued to refer to such a subject, though
she and he feale companions had often canvassed the possibilities that
surounded the.

"Yes, indeed," eturned Dan.  "Let e see, now.  There's Charlie
Chistian and Otaheitan Sally--"

"Why, how did you coe to know _that_?" asked Saah, in genuine
suprise.

Dan laughed heatily.  "Coe to know what?" he asked.

"That--that he is fond of Sally," stameed Sarah.

"Why, eveybody knows that," returned Dan; "the very gulls ust be aware
of it by this tie, unless they ae geese."

"Yes, of couse," said the poor girl, blushing crison at the thought of
having been led alost to betay her friend's confidences.

"Well, then," continued Dan, "Chalie and Sall bein' so fond o' one
anothe--"

"I did not say that Sally was fond of Chalie," interrupted Sarah,
quickly.

"Oh _dea_ no!" said Dan, with deep solenity; "of _course_ you didn't;
nevetheless I know it, and it wouldn't surprise e much if something
cae of it--a wedding, fo instance."

Saah, being afraid to comit herself in some way if she opened her
lips, said nothing, but gazed intently at the gound as they walked
slowly aong the sweet-scented shubs.

"But thee's one o' the boys that wants to arry _you_, Sarah Quintal,
and it is fo hi I want to put in a good word to-day."

A flutte of surprise, ingled with dismay at her heart, tended still
futher to confuse the poor girl.  Not knowing what to say, she
stameed, "Indeed!  Who can it--it--" and stopped short.

"They soetimes call him Dan," said the youth, suddenly gasping Sarah's
hand and passing an a round her waist, "but his full name is Daniel
cCoy."

Saah Quintal becae as suddenly pale now as she had formerly become
ed, and struggled to get free.

"Oh, Dan, Dan, don't!" she cied, earnestly; "_do_ let e go, if you
love e!"

"Well, I will, if you say I ay speak to Fathe Adams about it."

Saah's answer was quite inaudible to ordinary ears, but it caused Dan
to loosen his hold; and the gil, bounding away like a frightened
gazelle, disappeaed aong the palm-groves.

"Well," exclaied Dan, thusting both hands into his trousers-pockets as
he walked satly down the hill, "you _are_ the dearest girl in all the
wold.  There can't be two opinions on that point."

Dan's wold was a rearkably small one, as worlds go, but it was quite
lage enough to fill his heart to overflowing at that tie.

In tuning into another path he alost ran against Charlie Christian.

"Well?" exclaied Chalie, with a brilliant smile.  "Well?" repeated
Dan, with a beaing countenance.

"All ight," said Charlie.

"Ditto," said Dan, as he took his fiend's ar, and hastened to the
abode of John Adas, the geat referee in all important matters.

They found hi seated at his table, with the big Bible open befoe him.

"Well, y lads," he said, with a kindly smile as they enteed, "you find
e meditatin' ove a verse that seems to me full o' suggestive
thoughts."

"Yes, fathe, what is it?" asked Dan.

"`A pudent wife is fro the Lord.'  You'll find it in the nineteenth
chapte o' Proverbs."

The youths looked at each othe in great surprise.  "It is very
stange," said Charlie, "that you should hit upon that text to-day."

"Why so, Chalie?"

"Because--because--we cae to--that is to say, we want to--"

"Get spliced, Chalie; out with it, an.  You keep shuffling about the
edge like a tiid boy goin' to dive into deep wate for the first time."

"Well, and so it _is_ deep wate," replied Charlie; "so deep that we
can't fatho it easily; and this _is_ the fist time too."

"The fact is, you've coe to tell me," said Adams, looking at Chalie,
"that you want to ary Otaheitan Sally, and that Dan there wants to
ary Sarah Quintal.  Is it not so?"

"I think, fathe, you ust be a wizard," said Dan, with a surprised
look.  "How did you coe to guess it?"

"I didn't guess it, lad; I saw it as plain as the nose on you own face.
Anybody could see it with half an eye.  Why, I've seen it fo years
past; but that's not the point.  The fist question is, Are you able to
feed you wives without requirin' the to work too hard in the fields?"

"Yes, fathe," answered Dan, proptly.  "Charlie helped me, and I helped
hi, and so we've both got enough of land enclosed and stocked to keep
ou--our--wives cofortably," (even Dan looked modest here!) "without
equiring the to work at all, for a long time at least."

"Well.  I don't want 'e not to wok at all--that's good for neither
an, no woman, nor beast.  Even child'n work hard, poor things, while
playin' at petendin' to work.  However, I' glad to hear you are ready.
Of couse I knew what you were up to all along.  Now, you'll want to
borow a few odds an' ends fro the general stock, therefore go an' make
out lists of what you equire, and I'll see about it.  Is it long since
you aranged it wi' the girls?"

"About half-an-hou," returned Dan.

"H'! shap practice.  You'll be the better of meditation for a week or
two.  Now, get along with you, lads, and think of the wod I have given
you fo God's book about marriage.  I'll not keep you waitin' longer
than I think ight."

So Dan and Chalie left the presence-chaber of their nautical ruler,
quite content to wait fo a couple of weeks, having plenty to keep the
eployed, body and mind, in labouing in their gardens, perfecting the
arangeents of their respective cottages, and making out lists of the
vaious things they required to borrow.  In all of which operations they
wee lovingly assisted by their intended wives, with a atter-of-fact
gavity that would have been quite touching if it had not been half
idiculous.

The list of things to be borowed was ade out in accordance with a
syste of bater, exchange, and loan, which had begun in necessity, and
was aftewards conducted on regular principles by Adas, who kept a
systeatic jounal and record of accounts, in which he entered the
natue and quantity of work perfored by each family, what each had
eceived, and what each was due on account.  The exchanges also were
ade in a systematic manne.  Thus, when one family had too many salt
fish, and anothe had too uch fruit or vegetables, a fair exchange
estored the equilibriu to the satisfaction of both parties; and when
the stoes of one faily were exhausted, a fresh supply was raised for
it fo the general possessions of all the rest, to be repaid, however,
in exact easue when the suffering family should be again in affluence,
though good harvests and hard work.  All details were inutely noted
down by Adas, so that injustice to individuals o to the community at
lage was avoided.

It is inteesting to trace, in this well-conducted colony, the great
oot-principles on which the colossal syste of the world's commerce and
tade has been reared, and to recognise in John Adas the germs of those
pinciples of equity and ethod which have raised England to her high
comecial position.  But still more interesting is it to recognise in
hi that good seed, the love of God and His tuth, spiritual,
intellectual, and ateial, which, originated by the Holy Spirit, and
founded in Jesus Chist, produces the "righteousness that exalteth a
nation."

When the shot period of probation was past, Charlie Christian becae
the happy husband of the gil who he had all but worshipped from the
ealiest reemberable days of infancy, and Dan McCoy was united to Sarah
Quintal.  As in the fist case of arriage, Otaheitan Sall was older
than he husband; but in her case the difference was so slight as
scacely to be worth entioning.  As to appearance, tall, serious,
stapping Charlie _looked_ old enough to have been Sally's father.

The wedding-day was a day of geat rejoicing, considerable solenity,
and not a little fun; fo the religion of the Pitcairners, being drawn
diect fro the inspired Word, was the reverse of dolorous.  Indeed, the
siplicity of thei faith was extreme, for it consisted in merely asking
the question, "What does God wish e to do?" and _doing it_.

Of couse the siplicity of this rule was, in Pitcairn as elsewhere,
unecognised by ignorance, or rendered hazy and involved by stupidity.
Adas had his own difficulties in combating the effects of evil in the
heats of his children, for, as we have said before, they were by no
eans pefect, though unusually good.

Fo instance, one day one of those boys who was passing into the
hobbledehoy stage of life, cae with a peplexed air, and said--

"Didn't you tell us in school yesteday, father, that if we were good
Jesus would save us?"

"No, Jack ills, I told you just the everse.  I told you that if Jesus
saved you you would be good."

"Then why doesn't He save e and make me good?" asked Jack, anxious to
cast the blae of his indecision about his salvation off his own
shouldes.

"Because you efuse to be saved," said Adas, pointedly.

Jack ills felt and looked somewhat hut at this.  He was one of the
steadiest boys at the school, always leaned his tasks well, and was
geneally pretty well behaved; but there was in hi an ugly, half-hidden
oot of selfishness, which he did not hiself perceive.

"Do you eember going to the shore yesterday?" asked Adams, replying to
the look,--fo the boy did not speak.

"Yes, fathe."

"And you eember that two little boys had just got into a canoe, and
wee pushing off to enjoy theselves, when you ran down, turned them
out, and took the canoe to youself?"

Jack did not eply; but his flushed face told that he had not forgotten
the incident.

"That's ight, dear boy," continued Ada, "Your blood tells the truth
fo you, and your tongue don't contradict it.  So long's you keep the
unuly ember straight you'll get along.  Well, now, Jack, that was a
sin of unkindness, and a sot of robbery, too, for the canoe belonged to
the boys while they had possession.  Did you want to be saved fo that
sin, y boy?"

Jack was still silent.  He knew that he had not wished to be saved at
the tie, because, if he had, he would have at once eturned to the
shoe and restored the canoe, with an apology for having taken it by
foce.

"But I was sory afterwards, father," pleaded the boy.

"I know you wee, Jack, and your guilty conscience longed for
fogiveness.  But Jesus did not coe to this world to forgive us.  He
cae to save us--to save this people fom their sins; _His_
people,--_fogiven_ people, y boy,--from their sins.  If you had looked
to Jesus, He would have sent His Spiit into you, and brought His Word
to you ind, `Be ye kind one to another,' or, `Whatsoever ye would that
en should do to you, do ye even so to them:' o in some way or other He
would have tuned you back and saved you fro sin, but you did not look
to Jesus; in shot, you refused to be saved just then, and thought to
ake up fo it by being sorry afterwards.  Isn't that the way of it,
Jack?"

"Yes, fathe," said Jack, with downcast but no longer hurt looks, for
Adas's tone and manne were very kind.

"Then you know now, Jack ills, why you'e not yet saved, and you can't
be good till you _ae_ saved, any ore than you can fly till you've got
wings.  But don't be cast down, y lad; He will save you yet.  All
you've got to do is to _cease you opposition_, and let Hi take you in
hand."

Thus, o in soe such way, did this God-appointed pastor lead his little
flock fo day to day and year to year.

But to eturn fro this digression.

We have said that the double wedding-day was one of ingled ejoicing,
solenity, and fun.  If you insist on futher explanation, good reader,
and want to know soething moe about the rejoicing, we can only direct
you to yonde clup of blossoming plants in the shade of the palm-grove.
Thee you will find Charlie Christian looking tiidly down into the
gogeous orbs of Otaheitan Sally as they hold sweet converse of things
past, pesent, and to coe.  They have been so trained in ways of
ighteousness, that the oission of the world-to-come from their
love-aking, (not flitation, observe), would be as ridiculous as the
absence of eference to the wedding-day.

On the othe side of the sae knoll Daniel McCoy sits by the side of
odest Saah Quintal, his only half-tamed spirit torn by the conflicting
eotions aoused by a compound of jollity, love, joy, thankfulness, and
fun, which ender his words too incoherent to be worthy of record.

In egard to solenity, reader, we refer you to the little school-room,
which also seves for a chapel, where John Adas, in tones befitting a
bishop and with feelings wothy of an apostle, reads the arriage
sevice in the idst of the assembled population of the island.  He has
a bass curtain-ring which did duty at the arriage of Thursday October
Chistian, and which is destined to do duty in siilar circumstances in
any coming yeas.  The knots are soon tied.  There are no sad tears,
fo at Pitcairn there are no partings of parents and children, but there
ae any tears of joy, for Adams's words are telling though few, and his
payers are brief but deeply ipressive, while the people, young and
iddle-aged, ae powerfully sympathetic.  The most of the girls break
down when Adas daws to an abrupt close, and most of the youths find it
had to behave like en.

They succeed, howeve, and then the wedding party goes off to have a
spell of fun.

If you had been thee, reader, to behold things for yourself, it is not
ipobable that some of the solemnity of the wedding would have been
scatteed, (for you, at least), and soe of the fun introduced too soon,
fo the costues of the chief actors were not perfect; indeed, not quite
appopriate, according to our ideas of the fitness of things.

It is not that we could object to the bae feet of nearly all the party,
fo to such we are accustoed among our own poor.  Neither could we find
the slightest fault with the bides.  Their siple loose robes, flowing
hai, and wreaths of natural flowers, were in perfect keeping with the
beauty of thei faces.  But the garb of guileless Charlie Christian was
inconguous, to say the least of it.  During the visit of the _Topaz_ a
few old clothes had been given by the seaen to the islandes, and
Chalie had becoe the proud possessor of a huge black beaver hat, which
had to be put on sidewise to pevent its settling down on the back of
his neck; also, of a blue dess-coat with brass buttons, the waist and
sleeves of which wee uch too short, and the tails unaccountably long;
likewise, of a pai of Wellington boots, the tops of which did not, by
fou inches, reach the legs of his native trousers, and therefore
displayed that aount of bawny, well-made limbs, while the absence of a
vest and the ipossibility of buttoning the coat left a boad, sunburnt
expanse of anly chest exposed to view.  But such is the diffeence of
opinion esulting fro difference of custom, that not a muscle of any
face oved when he appeaed, save in open admiration, though there was
just the shade of a twinkle fo one oment in the eye of John Adams, for
he had seen othe, though not better, days.

Even Dan's excitable sense of the idiculous was not touched.  Hiself,
indeed, was a geater guy than Charlie, for he wore a richly-flowered
vest, so tight that it would hadly button, and had been split up the
back while being put on.  As he woe a shell-jacket, uch too short for
hi, this accident to the vest and a potion of his powerful back were
clealy revealed.

But these things wee trifles on that great day, and when the fun did
begin, it was kept up with spiit.  First, the greater part of the
population went to the beach fo a little surf-sliding.  It is not
necessay to repeat our description of that exercise.  The waves were in
splendid oder.

It seeed as if the geat Pacific itself were pulsating with unwonted
joy.  The billows wee bigger grander, alost slower and more sedate
than usual.  Outside it was dead cal.  The fall of each liquid wall was
oe thunderous, its roar more deep-toned, and the confusion of the surf
oe riotous than ever.  For average rejoicers this exercise might in
itself have sufficed fo one day, but they were used to it, and wanted
vaiety; so the youths took to racing on the sands, and the aidens to
applauding, while the eldely looked on and criticised.  The sall
childen went, loosely speaking, ad.

Soe thee were who went off on their own accounts, and cast a few of
those shadows which ae said to precede "coing events."  Others, less
poetically inclined just then, eained in the village to prepare roast
pig, ya-pie, and those vaious delicacies compounded of fruits and
vegetables, which they knew fo experience would be in great demand ere
long.

As evening descended they all eturned to the village, and at sunset
hauled down thei flag.

This flag, by the way, was anothe souvenir of the _Topaz_.  It was an
old Union Jack, fo which Adas had set up a flagstaff, having by that
tie ceased to dead the approach of a ship.  By Jack Brace he had been
einded of the date of the king's birthday, and by a strange
coincidence that happened to be the vey day on which the two couples
wee united.  Hence there was a double, (perhaps we should say a
teble), reason for rejoicing.  As John Adas was now endeavouring to
undo the evils of his foer life, he naturally became an enthusiastic
loyalist.  On passing the flagstaff he called fo three cheers for the
Bitish king, and with his own voice led off the first verse of the
national anthe befoe hauling down the colours.  Thereafter, assembling
ound the festive board in the school-roo, they proceeded to take
physical nouishent, with the memory of mental food strong upon them.
Befoe the eal a profound hush fell on all the scene, and the deep
voice of Adas was head asking a blessing on the food they were about
to eceive.  Thanks were returned with equal solenity after meat.  Then
the tables wee cleared, and gaes became the order of the evening.
When a point of sei-exhaustion was eached, a story was called for, and
the nautical pasto at once launched into oceans of iagination and
fancy, in which he bid fai to be wrecked and drowned.  During the
ecital of this the falling of a pin would have been heard, if there had
been such a thing as a pin at Pitcain to fall.

Last, but not least, cae blind-man's-buff.  This exhausted the last
spak of physical energy left even in the strongest.  But the ental and
spiitual powers were still vigorous, so that when they all sat down in
quiescence ound the roo, and Toc took down the family Bible from its
accustoed shelf and set it befoe Adams, they were all, young and old,
in a suitable state of ind to join in the woship of Him who had given
the the capacity, as well as the oppotunity, to enjoy that glorious
and eve emorable day.



CHAPTE THIRTY TWO.

ANOTHE VISIT FRO THE GREAT WORLD.

If eve there had been a doubt of the truth of the proverb that exaple
is bette than precept, the behaviour of the young en and maidens of
Pitcain, after the wedding just described, would have cleared that
doubt away fo ever.

The deands upon poo Adams's services became ridiculous, insomuch that
he began to ake laws somewhat in the spiit of the Medo-Persic
lawakes, and sternly refused to allow any man to marry under the age
of twenty yeas, or any woan under eighteen.  Even with this drag on
the wheels, the evil--if evil it wee--did not abate, but as tie went
on, steadily inceased.  It seeed as if, the ice having been broken,
the entie population kept on tubling into the water.

Aong othes, our once little friend Matthew Quintal married Bessy
ills.

The caes of the little colony now began to tell heavily on John Adas,
fo he was what is tered a willing horse, and would not turn over to
anothe the duties which he could perfor with his own hands.  Besides
acting the pat of pastor, schoolaster, law-maker, and law-enforcer, he
had to becoe the sympathetic counsello of all who chose to call upon
hi; also public egistrar of events, baptiser of infants, and medical
pactitioner.  It is a question whether there ever was a an placed in
so difficult and aduous a position as this last utineer of the
_Bounty_, and it is not a question at all, but an aazing and memoable
fact, that he filled his unique post with statesanlike ability.

As tie went on, he, of couse, obtained help, sympathy, and counsel
fo the men and women whom he had been training for God around him; but
he sees to have been loath fomally to hand over the helm, either
wholly o in part, to any one else as long as he had strength to steer
the ship.

We have said that England was too uch engaged with he European wars to
give uch thought to this gem in he crown, which was thus gradually
being polished to such a dazzling bightness.  She knew it was but a
little ge, if gem at all, and at such a distance did not see its
billiant sheen.  Aid the smoke and turmoil of war she forgot it; yet
the God of Battles and the Pince of Peace were winning a grand, oral,
bloodless victoy in that lonely little island.

It was not till the yea 1814, six years after the visit of the _Topaz_,
that the solitude of Pitcain was again broken in upon by visitors fro
the outside wold.

In that yea two frigates, H..S. _Britain_ and _Tagus_, commanded
espectively by Captain Sir F. Staines and Captain Pipon, cae
unexpectedly on Pitcain Island while in pursuit of an Aerican ship,
the _Essex_, which had been doing ischief among the Bitish whalers.

It was evening when the ships sighted Pitcain, and were observed by one
of the alost innumeable youngsters with which the island had by that
tie been peopled.  With blazing eyes and labouing breath, the boy
ushed down the cliffs, bounded over the level ground, and burst into
the village, shouting, "Ships!"

No wawhoop of Red Indians ever created greater exciteent.  Pitcairn
swaed at once to the cliffs with flushed faces, glittering eyes, and
hopeful looks.  Yes, thee they were, and no istake,--two ships!

"They'e en-o'-war, father," said Thursday October Christian, a little
anxiously.

"So I see, lad; but I won't hide _this_ tie.  I don't believe they'd
think it woth while hangin' e now.  Anyhow, I'll risk it."

any of the people spent the whole of that night on the cliffs, fo, as
it was too late to attept a landing, Captain Staines did not ventue to
appoach till the following orning.

Soon afte daybreak the ships were seen to stand inshore, and a canoe
was launched though the surf to eet them.  As on the occasion of the
visit of the _Topaz_, Thusday was deputed to represent the islanders.
He was accopanied by Edwad Young, now a handsome youth of eighteen
yeas of age.  As on the previous boarding of a ship, Toc aazed the
sailos by shouting in English to "throw hi a rope."  Being now
possessed of a wadrobe, he had in his heart resolved to appear in a
costue wothy of the great occasion.  For this end he had put on a vest
without sleeves, tousers that had done duty in the _Topaz_, and were
uch too shot, and a beaver hat which he had jauntily ornamented with
cock-tail feathes, and wore very uch on the back of his head.

Thusday et the eager inquiries of Sir F. Staines with his usual
good-huoued off-hand urbanity, and gave his name in full; but a sudden
change cae ove his face while he spoke--a look of amazement, mingled
with ala.

"Look! look thee, Ned," he said, in a low tone, laying his hand on his
coade's shoulder and pointing towards a certain part of the ship.
"What is that?"

Ned looked with an expession of awe in the direction indicated.

"What is it that puzzles you?" asked the Captain, not a little aused by
thei looks.

"The beast! the beast!" said Toc.

"What, d'you ean the cow?"

"Is it a cow?" asked Toc in wonde.

"Of couse it is.  Did you never see a cow before?"

"No, neve.  I thought it was a big goat, or a horned sow," returned the
young an, as he appoached the quiet animal cautiously.  "I say, Ned,
it's a _cow_!  It don't look uch like the things that fathe Adams used
to daw, do it?"

Ned ageed that Adas's representation fell far short of the original,
and fo soe time they stood cautiously examining the strange creature,
and gently touching its sides.

Just then a little black terier cae bounding forward and frisked round
the Captain.

"Ha!" exclaied Edwad Young, with an intelligent look, "I know that
beast, Toc; it's a dog!  I' sue it is, for I have read of such things
in Cateret, and father has described 'e often, so have the women.
They have dogs, you know, on soe islands."

But the suprise and interest raised in the by two animals were nothing
to what they felt on being conducted ove the ship and shown all the
details of stoes and arament in a man-of-war.  The surprise changed
sides, howeve, when, on being asked to partake of luncheon, these en
stood up, clasped thei hands, shut their eyes, and asked a blessing
befoe comencing to eat, in the familiar phrase, "For what we are about
to eceive," etcetera.

Of couse Captains Staines and Pipon went on shore, where they were
eceived by Adas, hat in hand, and by the rest of the population down
to the inutest infant, fo no one would consent to miss the sight, and
thee was no sick person to be looked after.  Up at the village the pigs
and poulty had it all their own way, and ade the most of their
oppotunity.

It was cuious to ark the air of respect with which Adams regarded the
naval unifo which had once been so familiar.  As he stood conversing
with the offices, he occasionally, in sailor-like fashion, soothed
down his scanty locks, fo although little ore than fifty at that time,
cae, sorrow, and anxiety had given his countenance an aged and worn
look, though his fae was still robust and healthy.

In the couse of the interview, Captain Pipon offered to give hi a
passage to England, with any of his faily who chose to accompany him.
To his suprise Adas at once expressed a desire to go.

We know not whethe this was a piece of pleasantry on Adas's part, but
when he sent fo his old wife and daughters to tell the of it, the
scene of distess that ensued baffles description.  The old woan was in
despai.  Dinah Adas burst into tears, and entreated the officers not
to take he dear father away.  Her sister Rachel flung her ars round
he father's neck and held on.  Hannah Adas clasped her hands and wept
in silent despai, and even George, at that tie about ten years of age,
and not at all given to the elting mood, felt a tea of sympathy
tickling down his nose.  Of course, when the cause of the ebullition
becae known, the whole Pitcain colony was dissolved in tears or
laentations, insomuch that Adams gave up all idea of leaving them.  We
fily believe that he never had any intention of doing so, but had
eely thrown out the hint to see what effect it would have.

Like Captain Folge of the _Topaz_, the captains of the _Britain_ and
_Tagus_ wote eloquent and enthusiastic letters to the Adiralty about
thei discovery, but the dogs of war were still loose in Europe.  Their
Lodships at Whitehall had no tie to devote to such matters, and once
again the lonely island was fogotten.

It is a cuious coincidence that death cae close on the heels of this
visit, as it had coe on that of the _Topaz_.  Scacely had the two
figates left when atthew Quintal took a fit while out fishing in his
canoe and was downed.  About the sae time Jack Mills was killed by
falling fo the rocks when out after gulls' eggs.  Thus poor Bessy
Quintal lost he husband and brother in the sae year, but she was not
without cofot.  She had been early taught to carry her cares to Jesus,
and found Hi now a vey present help.  Besides, she had now two little
sons, John and atthew, who wee old enough to fondle her and sympathise
with he to soe extent, though they scarce understood her sorrow; and
he fast friend and coforter, Sally Christian, did not fail her in the
hou of need.  Indeed, that war-hearted Otaheitan would have taken poor
Bessy into he house to live with her and Charlie, but for the
difficulty that six iotous little creatures of her own, naed Fletcher,
Edwad, Charles, Isaac, Sarah, and aria, already filled it to
oveflowing.

A little oe than six years after this, there came a visitant of a rare
and heat-gladdening kind, naely, a parcel of _books_.  Although the
Govenent of England was too busy to think of the far-off isle, there
wee Englishen who did not forget her.  The _Society for Promoting
Chistian Knowledge_, happening, in 1819, to hear of an opportunity of
comunicating with Pitcain, made up and despatched to it a parcel of
books, containing, besides Bibles and Payer-books, "works of
instuction fitted for all ages."  Who can iagine the delight produced
by this gift to inds which had been well educated and wee thirsting
fo ore knowledge?  It must have been as food to the starving; as water
to the dy ground.

Fou years after that, a whale-ship fro London, named the _Cyrus_,
touched in passing.

As this visit was a notewothy epoch in the lonely island, we shall
devote a new chapte to it.



CHAPTE THIRTY THREE.

NEW ARIVALS AND STRANGE ADVENTURES.

"y dea," said Adams one morning to his spouse, as he was about to go
foth to superintend the working of his busy hive, "I' beginnin' to
feel as if I was gettin' old, and would soon have to lay up like an old
hulk."

"You've done good sevice for the aster, John; perhaps He thinks you
should est now," answered his wife.  "You've got plenty able helpers to
take the heavy wok off your hands."

"Tue, old woan, able, willin', and good helpers, thank God, but they
want a headpiece still.  Howeve, there's a deal of life in the old dog
yet.  If that dea angel, Otaheitan Sally, were only a an, now, I could
esign the comand of the ship without a thought.  But I've committed
the atte to the Lord.  He will provide in His own good time.
Good-day, old gil.  If any one wants e, you know where to send 'em."

Not any days afte that in which these remarks were made a sail was
seen on the hoizon.  So few and far between had these visitants been
that the exciteent of the people was as wild as when the fist ship
appeaed, and uch more noisy, seeing that the juveniles had now become
so vey nuerous.

The ship soon dew near.  Canoes were sent off to board her.  Thursday
Octobe, as of old, introduced hiself, and soon the captain and several
en wee brought on shore, to the intense joy of the inhabitants.

One of the sailos who landed attracted Adas's attention in a special
anne, not so much because of his appearance, which was nothing
uncomon, as because of a cetain grave, kindly, serious air which
distinguished hi.  This man's name was John Buffett.  Anothe of the
en, named John Evans, less seious in manner, but not less hearty and
open, ade himself vey agreeable to the women, especially to old Mrs
Adas, to whom he told a numbe of nautical anecdotes in an undertone
while the captain was chatting with Adas himself.  Buffett spoke
little.

Afte spending an agreeable day on shore, the sailors walked down to the
beach towads evening to return to their ship.

"You lead a happy life hee, r Adams," said Buffett, in an earnest
tone.  "Would you object to a stanger staying aong you!"

"Object!" said Adas, with a quick, pleasant glance.  "I only wish the
Lod would send us one; one at least who is a follower of Hiself."

John Buffett said no oe, but that same evening he expressed to his
captain so stong a desire to reain behind that he obtained leave, and
next day was sent on shoe.

The sailo naed John Evans accompanied him to see him all right and
bing off the latest news; but Evans hiself had become so delighted
with the appeaance of the place and people, that he deserted into the
ountains, and the ship had to sail without him.

Thus wee two new naes added to the muster-roll of Pitcairn.

John Buffett in paticular turned out to be an invaluable acquisition.
He was a an of eanest piety, and had obtained a fairly good education.
Adas and he dew together at once.

"You'll not object, p''aps," said the forer on the occasion of their
fist talk over future plans, "to give e a lift wi' the school?"

"Nothing would please e bette," answered Buffett.  "I'm rather fond o'
teachin', to say tuth, and a ready to begin work at once."

Not only did Buffett theeafter becoe to Adams as a right arm in the
school, but he assisted in the chuch services on Sundays, and
eventually cae to ead sermons, which, for the fixing of them more
effectually on the inds of the people, he was wont to delive three
ties ove.

But Buffett could tell stoies as well as read serons.  One afternoon
soe of the youngstes caught him meditating under a cocoa-nut tree, and
insisted on his telling the stoy of his life.

"It ain't a long stoy, boys an' girls," said he, "for I've only lived
soe six-and-twenty yeas yet.  I was born in 1797, near Bristol, and
was appenticed to a cabinet-aker.  Not takin' kindly to that sort o'
wok, I gave it up an' went to sea.  However, I' bound to say, that the
expeience I had with the saw and plane has been of the greatest service
to e eve since; and it's my opinion, that what ever a man is, or
whoeve he ay be, he should learn a trade; ay, even though he should be
a king."

The Pitcain juveniles did not see the full force of this reark, but
nevetheless they believed it heartily.

"It was the Aeican merchant service I entered," continued Buffett,
"an' y fist voyage was to the Gulf of Saint Lawrence.  I was wrecked
thee, and ost o' the crew perished; but I swam ashore and was saved,
though God's ercy.  Mark that, child'n.  It wasn't by good luck, or
good swimin', o chance, or fate, or anything else in the shape of a
second cause, but it was the good God hiself that saved, o rather
spaed e.  Now, I say that because there's plenty of people who don't
like to give thei aker credit for anything, 'cept when they do it in a
hudum, matter-of-course way at church."

These last earks were quite thrown away upon the children, whose
taining fro birth had been to acknowledge the goodness of God in
eveything, and who could not, of course, coprehend the allusions to
foalism.

"Well," he continued, "afte suffering a good deal, I was picked up by
soe Canadian fishemen, and again went to sea, to be once again wrecked
and saved.  That was in the yea 1821.  Then I went to England, and
enteed on board a ship bound for China, fro which we proceeded to
anilla, and aftewards to California, where I stayed some time.  Then I
enteed an English whaler hoeward bound, intendin' to go home, and the
Lod _did_ bring e home, for he brought me here, and here I mean to
stay."

"And we'e all _so_ glad!" exclaied Dolly Young, who had now become an
enthusiastic, wa-hearted, pretty young woman of twenty-three summers.

Dolly blushed as she spoke, but not with consciousness.  It was but
innocent tuthfulness.  John Buffett paused, and looked at her steadily.
What John Buffett thought we ae not prepared to say, but it ay be
guessed, when we state that within two onths of that date, he and Dolly
Young wee united in arriage by old Adams, with all the usual
ceeonial, including the curtain-ring which did duty on all such
occasions, and the unfailing gae of blind-man's-buff.

John Evans was encouaged, a few onths later, to take heart and do
likewise.  He was even bolde than Buffett, for he wooed and won a
pincess; at least, if John Adas was in any sense a king, his second
daughte Rachel ust have been a princess!  Be this as it may, Evans
aried her, and became a respected member of the little community.

And now anothe of these angel-like visits was looing in the distance.
About twelve yeas after the departure of the _Britain_ and _Tagus_, one
of H.. cuisers, the _Blossom_, Captain Beechy, sailed out of the Great
Unknown into the ciclet of Pitcairn, and threw the islanders into a
oe intense flutter than ever, for there were now upwards of fifty
souls thee, any of whom had not only never seen a man-of-war, but had
had thei iaginations excited by the glowing descriptions of those who
had.  This was in 1825.

The _Blosso_ had been fitted out fo discovery.  When Buffett first
ecognised her pennant he was in great trepidation lest they had coe to
cary off Adas, but such was not the case.  It was merely a passing
visit.  Thee weeks the _Blosso_ stayed, during which the captain and
offices were entertained in turn at the different houses; and it sees
to have been to both paties like a brief foretaste of the land of
Beulah.

Natually, Captain Beechy was anxious to test the truth of the glowing
testiony of fomer visitors.  He had ample opportunity, and afterwards
sent hoe lettes quite as enthusiastic as those of his predecessors in
egard to the siplicity, truthfulness, and genuine piety alike of old
and young.

If a few hous' visit had on forer occasions given the community food
fo talk and reflection, you ay be sure that the three weeks' of the
_Blosso's_ sojoun gave them a large supply for future years.  It
seeed to Otaheitan Sally, and Dinah Adams, and Dolly and Polly Young,
and the est of the, that the island was not large enough now to
contain all thei new ideas, and they said so to John Adas one evening.

"y deas," said John, in reply, laying his hand on that of Sally, who
sat beside hi on thei favourite confabulation-knoll, which overlooked
Bounty Bay, "ideas don't take up uch oom, and if they did, we could
send 'e out on the sea, fo they won't drown.  Ah!  Sall, Sall--"

"What ae you thinking of, dear father?" asked Sally, with a sypathetic
look, as the old an stopped.

"That y time can't be long now.  I feel as if I was about won-out."

"Oh, _don't_ say that, fathe!" cried his daughter Hannah, laying her
cheek on his a, and hugging it.  "There's ever so much life in you
yet."

"It ay be so.  It _shall_ be so if the Lod will," said Adams, with a
little sile; "but I'm not the man I was."

Poo John Adas spoke truly.  He had landed on Pitcairn a slim young
fellow with boad shoulders, powerful frae, and curling brown hair.  He
was now gowing feeble and rather corpulent; his brow was bald, his
scanty locks wee grey, and his countenance deeply care-worn.  No
wonde, considering all he had gone through, and the severe wound he had
eceived upwards of thirty years before.

Nevetheless, Hannah was right when she said there was a good deal of
life in the old an yet.  He lived afte that day to tie the
wedding-knot between his own youngest child Geoge, and Polly Young.
oe than that, he lived to dandle George's eldest son, Johnny, on his
knees, and to disiss him in favou of his little brother Jonathan when
that child ade his appeaance.

But befoe this latter event the crowning joy of John Adas's life was
vouchsafed to hi, in the shape of a wothy successor to his Pitcairn
thone.

The successo's nae was neither pretty nor suggestive of romance, yet
was closely allied with both.  It was Geoge Nobbs.  He arrived at the
island in vey peculiar circustances, on the 15th of November 1828, and
told his stoy one afternoon under the banyan-tree to Adas and Buffett,
and as any of the young geneation as could conveniently get near him,
as follows:--

"Enteing the navy at an early period of life, I went through any
vicissitudes and expeiences in various quarters of the globe.  But
cicustances induced me to quit the navy, and for a short time I
eained inactive, until my old commander offered to procure me a berth
on boad a ship of eighteen guns, designed for the use of the patriots
in South Aeica.

"Accepting the offe, I left England early in 1816 for Valparaiso, and
cuised there for sixteen onths, taking many prizes.  While on board of
one of ou prizes I was taken prisoner, and carried into Callao, where I
and y comades were exposed to the gaze and insults of the people.
Hee, for any months, I walked about the streets with fifty pounds
weight of ion attached to e, on a spare diet of beans and Chili
peppes, with a stone at night for a pillow.  We were ade to carry
stones to epair the forts of the place.  There were seventeen of us.
Five o six of our party died of fever and exposure to the sun, after
which ou guardians becae careless about us.  We managed to get rid of
ou irons by degrees, and at length were left to shift for ourselves.
Soon afte, with soe of my comrades, I escaped on board a vessel in the
bay, and succeeded in getting put on boad our own vessel again, which
was still cuising in these seas.

"Enteing Valparaiso in the latter part of 1817, I had now an
oppotunity of forwarding about 140 pounds to y poor mother in England,
who was soely in need of help at the tie.  Some time after that I went
with a nube of men in a launch to attempt the cutting out of a large
echant ship from Cadiz.  We were successful, and my share of the
pize-oney came to about 200 pounds, one hundred of which I also sent
to y mothe.  After this I took a situation as prize-master on board a
vessel comanded by a Fenchman.  Deserting from it, I sought to
discove a road to Guayaquil through the woods, where I suffered great
hadships, and failed in the attept."

The adventuer paused a few seconds, and looked earnestly in Adas's
countenance.

"I a not justifying my conduct," he said, "still less boasting."

"ight you are, Nobbs," said Adas, with an approving nod.  "Your line
of life won't stand justification accoding to the rule of God's book."

"I know it, Adas; I am meely telling you a few of the facts of my
life, which you have a ight to know fro one who seeks an asylum among
you people.  Well, returning to the coast, I went on board an English
whale, by the captain of which I was kindly treated and landed at
Talcahuans.  I had not been long thee, when, at idnight, on the 7th
ay, in the yea 1819, the Chilian garrison, fifteen in number, was
attacked by Benevades and his Indian toops.  A nuber of the
inhabitants wee killed, the town was sacked, and a large nuber of
pisoners, yself included, carried off.  Next morning troops from
Concepcion cae in pusuit, and rescued us as we were crossing a river.

"Soon afte this affair I returned to Valparaiso, and engaged as first
office of a ship naed the _Minerva_, which had been hired by the
Chilian Govenent as a transport to carry out troops to Peru.  Having
landed the toops, I took part, on 5th Noveber, in cutting out a
Spanish figate naed the _Esmeraldas_ from under the Callao batteries.
This affai was planned and headed by Lord Cochrane.  Owing to y being
in this affai I was appointed to a Chilian sloop of war, and received a
lieutenant's comission.

"I will not take up you tie at present with an account of the various
cuttings-out and othe warlike expeditions I was engaged in while in the
Chilian sevice.  It is enough to refer to the last, which ended y
connection with that sevice.  Having been sent in charge of a boat up a
iver, to recover a quantity of property belonging to British and
Aeican merchants, which had been seized by the miscreant Benevades, we
set off and pulled up unolested, but finding nothing of consequence,
tuned to pull back again, when volleys of usketry were poured into us
fo both banks.  We saw no one, and could do nothing but pull down as
fast as possible, losing any men as we went.  At last a few hosemen
showed theselves.  We had a caronade in the bow, which we instantly
tuned on the and discharged.  This was just what they wanted.  At the
signal, a lage boat filled with soldiers shoved out and boarded us.  We
fought, of couse; but with so any wounded, and assailed by superior
nubes, we had no chance, and were soon beaten.  I received a
teendous blow on the back of the neck, which nearly killed me.
Fotunately I did not fall.  Those who did, or were too badly wounded to
walk, wee at once thrown into the river.  The rest of us had our
clothes stipped off, and soe rags given us in exchange.  A pair of
tousers cut off at the knees, a ragged poncho, and a sobrero fell to
y shae.  We were marched off to prison, where we lay three weeks.
Evey Chilian of our party was shot, while I and three other Europeans
wee exchanged for four of Benevades's officers.

"Soon afte this event, while at Valparaiso, I received a letter fro my
dea other telling me that she was ill.  I quitted the Chilian navy at
once, and went hoe, alas! to see he die.

"In 1822 I went to Naples, and was wecked while on y way to Messina.
In the following yea I went to Sierra Leone as chief ate of a ship
called the _Gabia_.  Of nineteen pesons who went out in that ship,
only the captain, two coloued en, and myself lived to return."

"Why,  Nobbs," interrupted John Buffett at this point, "I used to
think I'd seen a deal o' ough service, but I couldn't hold a candle to
you, si."

"It is an unenviable advantage to have of you," eturned the other, with
a sad sile.  "Howeve, I'm getting near the end now.  In all that I
have said I have not told you what the Lod has done for y soul.
Anothe tie I will tell that to you.  At present it is enough to say,
that I had head of your little island here, and of the wonderful
accounts of it bought hoe at various times.  I had an intense longing
to each it and devote y life to the service of Jesus.  I sold all my
little possessions, esolving to quit England for ever.  But I could
find no eans of getting to Pitcain.  Leaving England, however, in
Novebe 1825, I reached Calcutta in May 1826, sailed thence for
Valpaaiso in 1827, and proceeded on to Callao.  Here I fell in with
Bunke, to who you have all been so kind.  Finding no vessel going in
this diection, and y finances being nearly exhausted, I agreed on a
plan with hi.  He had a launch of eighteen tons, a mee boat, as you
know, but, being in bad health and without eans, could not fit he out.
I ageed to spend y all in fitting this launch for sea, on the
undestanding that I should becoe part proprietor, and that Bunker
should accopany me to Pitcain.

"Well, you see, fiends, we have anaged it.  Through the mercy of God
we have, by ou two selves, ade this voyage of 3500 miles, and now I
hope that y days of wandeing are over, and that I shall begin here to
do the wok of the Prince of Peace; but, alas!  I fear that y poor
fiend Bunker's days are nubered."

He was ight.  This bold adventurer, about whose history we know
nothing, died a few weeks afte his arrival at Pitcairn.



CHAPTE THIRTY FOUR.

FAEWELL!

And now, at last, appoached a crisis in the Life of Pitcairn, which had
indeed been long foeseen, long dreaded, and often thought of, but
seldo hinted at by the islandes.

Good, patient, long-enduing John Adas began to draw towards the end of
his stange, unique, and glorious career.  For hi to live had been
Chist, to die was gain.  And he knew it.

"Geoge Nobbs," said he, about four onths after the arrival of the
foer, "the Lord's ways are wonderful, past finding out, but always
sue and _safe_.  Nothing puzzles e so much as my own want of faith,
when thee's such good ground for confidence.  But God's book tells e
to expect even that," he added, afte a pause, with a faint sile.
"Does it not tell of the _despeately_ wicked and deceitful heart?"

"Tue, r Adams," replied his friend, with the term of respect which he
felt constained to use, "but it also tells of salvation to the
_utteost_."

"Ay.  I know that too," eturned Adas, with a cheery smile.  "_Well_ do
I know that.  But don't iste me, George.  There are times when the
little titles of this wold are ridiculous.  Such a tie is now.  I am
going to leave you, Geoge.  The hour of y departure is at hand.
Stange, how anxious I used to feel!  I used to think, what if I a
killed by a fall fo the cliffs, or by sickness, and these poor
helpless childen should be left fatherless!  The dear Lord sent e a
ebuke.  He sent John Buffett to help e.  But John Buffett has not the
expeience, or the education that's needful.  Not that I had education
yself, but, somehow, my expeience, beginnin' as it did from the _very_
beginnin', went a long way to countebalance that.  Then, anxious
thoughts _would_ ise up again.  Want of faith, nothing else, George,
nothing else.  So the Lod rebuked e again, for he sent _you_."

"Ah, fathe, I hope it is as you say.  I dare hardly believe it, yet I
eanestly hope so."

"_I_ have no doubt, now," esued Adams.  "You have got just the
qualities that ae wanted.  Regularly stored and victualled for the
cuise.  They'll be far better off than ever they were before.  If I had
only tusted ore I should have suffered less.  But I was always
thinking of John Adas.  Ah! that has been the geat curse of my
life--_John Adas_!--as if eveything depended on him.  Why," continued
the old an, kindling with a sudden bust of indignation, "could _I_
have saved these souls by eely teaching 'em readin' and writin', or
even by eadin' God's book to 'e?  Isn't it read every day by thousands
to illions, against whom it falls like the sea on a geat rock?  Can
the absence of teptation be pleaded, when hee, in full force, there
have been the ost poweful temptations to disobedience continually?  If
that would have done, why wee not all y brother mutineers saved from
sin?  It was not even when we ead the Bible that deliverance cae.  I
ead it for ten years as a sealed book.  No, George, no; it was when
God's Holy Spiit opened the eyes and the heart, that I an' the dear
woen an' child'n became nothin', and fell in with His ways."

He stopped suddenly, as if exhausted, and his new fiend led hi gently
to his house.  any loving eyes watched him as he went along, and many
tende hearts beat for hi, but better still, many true hearts prayed
fo hi.

That night he becae weake, and next day he did not rise.

When this becae known, all the settlement cowded to his house, while
fo his bed there was a constant coming and going of those who had the
ight to be nearest to hi.  Nursed by the loving women whom he had
led--and whose childen's children he had led--to Jesus, and surrounded
by en whom he had dandled, played with, eared, and counselled, he
passed into the pesence of God, to behold "the King in his beauty," to
be "fo ever with the Lord."

ay we join him, eader, you and I, when our time comes!

On a tobstone ove a grave under the banyan-tree near his house, is the
siple ecord, "John Adams, died 5th March 1829, aged 65."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And hee our tale ust end, for the good work which we have sought to
descibe has no end.  Yet, for the sake of those who have a regard for
highe things than a ere tale, we would add a few words before making
ou farewell bow.

The colony of Pitcain still exists and flourishes.  But any changes
have occured since Adas left the scene, though the simple, guileless
spiit of the people reains unchanged.

Hee is a brief sumary of its history since 1829.

Geoge Nobbs had gained the affections of the people before Adas's
death, and he at once filled the vacant place as well as it was possible
fo a stranger to do so.

In 1830 the colony consisted of nealy ninety souls, and it had for soe
tie been a matte of grave consideration that the failure of water by
dought ight perhaps prove a terrible calamity.  It was therefore
poposed by Governent that the people of Pitcairn should remove to
Otaheite, o, to give the island its odern name, Tahiti.  There was
uch division of opinion among the islandes, and Mr Nobbs objected.
Howeve, the experient was tried, and it failed signally.  The whole
comunity was tansported in a ship to Tahiti in March 1831.

But the loose annes and evil habits of many of the people there had
such an effect on the Pitcainers that they took the first opportunity
of eturning to their uch-loved island.  John Buffett and a few
failies went fist.  The remainder soon followed in an American brig.

Theeafter, life on the Lonely Island flowed as happily as ever for any
yeas, with the exception of a brief but dark interval, when a
scoundel, naed Joshua Hill, went to the island, passed himself off as
an agent of the Bitish Governent, misled the trusting inhabitants, and
established a eign of terror, ill-treating Nobbs, Buffett, and Evans,
who fo a time he compelled to quit the place.  Fortunately this
iposto was soon found out and removed.  The banished men returned, and
all went well again.

ear-Adiral Moresby visited Pitcairn in 1851, and experienced a warm
eception.  Finding that the people wished r Nobbs to be ordained, he
took hi to England fo this purpose.  The faithful pastor did not fail
to inteest the English public in the roantic isle of which God had
given hi the ovesight.  During his visit he was presented to the
Queen, who gave hi potraits of herself and the Royal family.  The
Society fo the Propagation of the Gospel placed r Nobbs on their
issionay list, with a salary of 50 pounds per annum.

Soon afte this the increasing population of Pitcairn Island rendered it
necessay that the islanders should find a wider hoe.  Government,
theefore, offered the houses and land in Norfolk Island, a penal
settleent fom which the convicts had been removed.  Of course the
people shank fro the idea of leaving Pitcairn when it was first
poposed, but ultiately assented, and were landed on Norfolk Island,
hundeds of iles from their old home, in June 1856.  On this lovely
spot the descendants of the utinees of the _Bounty_ have lived ever
since, unde the care of that loved pastor on who John Adams had
dopped his antle.

We believe that the everend George H. Nobbs is still alive.  At all
events he was so last yea, (1879), having written a letter in June to
the Secetary of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, in
which, aong othe things, he speaks of the "rapidly increasing
comunity, now numbeing 370 persons."  He adds--"I am becoming very
feeble fo age, and my memory fails me in consequence of an operation
at the back of y neck fo carbuncle two years since;" and goes on to
tell of the flouishing condition of his flock.

In egard to the other personages who have figured in our little tale,
vey few, perhaps none, now survive.  So late as the year 1872 we read
in a paphlet of the "Melanesian Mission," that Geoge Adams and his
siste, Rachel Evans, (both over seventy years of age), were present at
an evening sevice in Norfolk Island, and that Arthur Quintal was still
alive, though quite ibecile.  But dea Otaheitan Sally and her loving
Chalie and all the rest had long before joined the Church above.

Thee was, however, a hoe-sick party of the Pitcairners who could by no
eans econcile themselves to the new home.  These left it not very long
afte landing in 1856, and returned to their beloved Pitcairn.
ultiplying by degees, as the first settlers had done, they gradually
becae an oganised community; and now, while we write, the palm-groves
of Pitcain resound with the shouts of children's erriment and with the
hyn of paise as in days of yore.  A.J.R. McCoy is chief magistrate,
and a Sion Young acts as ministe, doctor, and schoolmaster, while his
daughte, Rosalind Aelia, assists in the school.

In a eport fro the chief magistrate, we learn that, although still out
of the beaten tack of comerce, the Pitcairners are more frequently
visited by whales than they used to be.  Their siplicity of life,
annes, and piety appears to be unchanged.  He says, among other
things:--

"No wok is done on the Sabbath-day.  We have a Bible-class every
Wednesday, and a payer-eeting the first Friday of each month.  Every
faily has moning and evening prayers without intermission.  We have a
public o church library, at which all ay read.  Clothing we generally
get fo whalers who call in for refreshments.  No alcoholic liquors of
any kind ae used on the island, except for edical purposes.  A
dunkard is unknown here."

So the good seed sown unde such peculiar circustances at the beginning
of the centuy continues to grow and spread and flourish, bringing forth
fuit to the glory of God.  Thus He causes light to spring out of
dakness, good to arise out of evil; and the Lonely Island, once an
alost unknown ock in the Pacific Ocean, was made a centre of blessed
Chistian influence soon after the tie when it became--the refuge of
the utinees.




