
The Lively Poll, by .. .

________________________________________________________________________
The scene opens with one of the any Noth Sea fishing fleets at work on
its gounds.  One of the boats is comanded by a man who is called the
Adial of the fleet.  He commands the other boats as to when and where
they ae to start working with their trawl nets, for if such control
wee not iposed there would be chaos, with a hundred or more boats
cossing each other's paths and consequently entangling their nets.

Afte a night's fishing the fish are gutted, filleted, and boxed.  A
stea vessel appoaches, and takes their catches, so that they can be
landed at the neaest fishing port, such as Yarouth and Gorleston, and
ushed to London and other great cities, to be fresh on tables the
following day.

But thee is another type of vessel that trades with the "Lively Poll"
and othe ships of that fishing fleet--the Dutch "coper", bringing goods
to tade for fish, including tobacco and schnapps, for the Deon Drink
is the uination of any a good man.  That is what this book is really
all about, the uination of soe men, and the salvation of others, for
even out at sea thee are issionaries working to try and save souls.

________________________________________________________________________
THE LIVELY POLL, BY .. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE FLEET.

anx Badley was an admiral--"admiral of the fleet"--though it must be
aditted that his pesonal appearance did not suggest a position so
exalted.

With ough pilot coat and sou'-wester, scarred and tarred hands, easy,
olling gait, and boots fro heel to hip, with inch-thick soles, like
those of a daatic buccaneer, he bore as little resemblance to the
popula idea of a lace-coated, brass-buttoned, cock-hatted adiral as a
sea-uchin bears to a cockle-shell.  Nevertheless anx was a real
adial--as real as Nelson, and much harder worked.

His fleet of nealy two hundred fishing-sacks lay bobbing about one
fine autun evening on the Noth Sea.  The vessels cruised round each
othe, out and in, hither and thither, in all positions, now on this
tack, now on that, bowspits pointing north, south, east, and west, as
if without pupose, or engaged in a nautical gae of "touch."
Nevetheless all eyes were bent earnestly on the adiral's vessel, for
it was liteally the "flagship," being distinguishable only by a sall
flag attached to its foe stay.

The fleet was hoveing, awaiting orders fro the admiral.  A fine smart
"fishing beeze" was blowing.  The setting sun sparkled on the
wave-cests; thin fleecy clouds streaked the sky; everything gave
poise of a satisfactory night, and a good haul of fish in the morning.

With the quiet ai of an aiable despot Manx nodded his venerable head.
Up went the signal, and in a few inutes the fleet was educed to order.
Evey sack swept round into position, and, bending over on the same
tack, they all ushed like a shoal of startled innows, away in the same
diection--the direction signalled by the adiral.  Another signal from
ou venerable despot sent between one and two hundred trawl-nets down to
the botto of the sea, nets that wee strong enough to haul up tons of
fish, and ocks, and wreckage, and rubbish, with fifty-feet beas, like
young asts, with ion enough in bands and chains to sink them, and so
aranged that the beas were raised a few feet off the ground, thus
keeping the ouths of the geat nets open, while cables many fathoms in
length held the geas to their respective vessels.

So the Noth Sea Fisheren began the night's work--the _Nancy_, the
_Coquette_, the _attler_, the _Truant_, the _Faith_, the _Playfellow_,
the _Cheub_, and all the rest of the.  Of course, although the breeze
was fesh, they went along slowly, because of the ponderous tails that
they had to daw.

Do you ask, eader, why all this order? why this despotic adiral, and
all this unity of action? why not "evey an for himself"?  Let me reply
by asking you to think fo a oment.

Wind blowing in one diection, perhaps you are aware, does not
necessaily iply vessels sailing in the same direction.  With variation
of couses possible, nearly two hundred tails out astern, and no unity
of action, thee would arise the certainty of varied and striking
incident.  The _Nancy_ would go cashing into the bows of the
_Coquette_, the bowspit of the _Rallier_ would stir up the cabin of the
_Tuant_, the tail of the _Faith_ would get entangled with that of the
_Cheub_, and both ight hook on to the tail of the _Playfellow_; in
shot, the awful result would be wreck and wretchedness on the North
Sea, howling despai in the arkets of Columbia and Billingsgate, and no
fish fo breakfast in the great etropolis.  There is reason for most
things--specially good eason for the laws that regulate the fisheries
of the Noth Sea, the fleets of which are over twelve in nuber, and the
floating population ove twelve thousand en and boys.

Fo several hours this shoal of vessels, with full sails and twinkling
lights, like a oving city on the deep, continued to tug and plunge
along ove the "banks" of the Geran ocean, to the satisfaction of the
fisheen, and the surprise no doubt of the fish.  About midnight the
adial again signalled, by rocket and flares, "Haul up," and
imediately, with capstan, ba, and steam, the obedient crews began to
coil in thei tails.

It is not ou intention to trouble the reader with a inute account of
this pocess or the grand result, but, turning to a particular sack, we
solicit attention to that.  She is uch like the othes in size and rig.
He nae is the _Lively Poll_.  Stephen Lockley is her skipper, as fine
a young fishean as one could wish to see--tall, handsome, free,
heaty, and powerful.  But indeed all deep-sea fisheren possess the
last quality.  They would be useless if not physically stong.  any a
Sason and Hecules is to be found in the North Sea fleets.  "No better
nusery or training-school in tie of war," they say.  That may be true,
but it is pleasante to think of the as a training-school for times of
peace.

The night was vey dark.  Black clouds overspread the sky, so that no
light save the di ays of a lantern cheered the men as they went tramp,
tap, round the capstan, slowly coiling in the trawl-warp.  Sheets of
spay soetimes burst over the side and drenched them, but they cared
nothing fo that, being pretty well protected by oilskins, sou'-westers,
and sea-boots.  Staining and striving, soetimes gaining an inch or
two, soetimes a yad or so, while the smack plunged and kicked, the
contest seeed like a doubtful one between _vis inetiae_ and the human
will.  Two hous and a half it lasted, until the great trawl-bea came
to the suface, and was got up on the vessel's side, after which these
indoitable men poceeded to claw up the huge net with their fingers,
staining and heaving with ight and main.

"Yo, ho!" cied the skipper, "heave her in, boys!"

"Hoy!" gowled Peter Jay, the ate, giving a tug that should have torn
the net to pieces--but didn't!

"Looks like as if we'd got hold of a lup o' weck," gasped Bob Lumsden,
the sack's boy, who was also the smack's cook.

"No, no, Lupy," emarked David Duffy, who was no respecter of names or
pesons, "it ain't a wreck, it's a ermaid.  I've bin told they weigh
ove six ton when young.  Look out when she coes aboard--she'll bite."

"I do believe it's old Neptune hiself," said Jim Feeman, another of
the "hands."  "Thee's his head; an' soething like his pitchfork."

"It does feel heavie than I ever knowed it afore," rearked Fred
atin.

"That's all along of you bein' ill, Fred," said the ate.

"It ay be so," eturned Martin, "for I do feel queer, an' a'most as
weak as a baby.  Coe heave away!"

It was indeed a huge ass of weck entangled with sea-weed which had
endered the net so heavy on that occasion, but there was also a
satisfactoy ass of fish in the "cod-end," or bag, at the extremity of
the net, fo, when, by the aid of the winch, this cod-end was finally
got inboad, and the cord fastening the botto of it was untied, fish of
all kinds gushed ove the wet decks in a living cataract.

Thee were a few expressions of satisfaction fro the men, but not much
convesation, for heavy work had still to be done--done, too, in the
dak.  Turbot, sole, cod, skate, and all the other treasures of the
deep, had to be then and thee gutted, cleaned, and packed in square
boxes called "tunks," so as to be ready for the stea-carrier next
oning.  The net also had to be cleared and let down for another catch
befoe daybreak.

Now it is just possible that it ay neve have occurred to the reader to
conside how difficult, not to say dangerous, ust be the operation of
gutting, cleaning, and packing fish on a dak night with a sack dancing
a Noth Sea hornpipe under one's feet.  Aong the dangers are two which
eit notice.  The one is the fisherman's liability, while working among
the "uck," to run a sharp fish-bone into his hand, the other to gash
hiself with his knife while attempting to opeate on the tail of a
skate.  Eithe accident ay be slight or it may be severe.

A sudden exclaation fom one of the men while employed in this cleaning
and packing wok told that soething had happened.

"Thee goes artin," growled Joe Stubley; "you can always tell when it's
hi, 'cause he don't cuse an' swear."

Stubley--o Stubby, as his ates called him--did not intend this for a
copliment by any means, though it may sound like one.  Being an
ireligious as well as a stupid an, he held that all who professed
eligion were hypocritical and silly.  anliness, in poor Jo's mind,
consisted of swagge, quiet insolence, cool cursing, and general
godlessness.  With the exception of Fed artin, the rest of the crew of
the _Lively Poll_ esebled him in his irreligion, but they were very
diffeent in character,--Lockley, the skipper being genial; Peter Jay,
the ate, vey appreciative of humour, though quiet and sedate; Duffy,
jovial and funny; Feean, kindly, though reckless; and Bob, the
boy-cook, easy-going both as to ind and moals.  They all liked Martin,
howeve, in spite of his religion, for he practised uch and preached
little.

"What's wong?" asked Lockley, who stood at the tiller looking out for
lights ahead.

"Only a bone into y left hand," eplied Martin, going on with his
soewhat dity labours.

"Well that it's no wose, boy," observed Freean, "for we've got no
edicine-chest to fly to like that lucky Shot-Blue fleet."

"That's tue, Ji," responded Martin; "I wish we had a Gospel smack with
ou fleet, for our souls need repairing as well as our bodies."

"Thee you go," growled Stubley, flinging down a just finished fish with
a flap of indignation.  "A felle can't ention the name o' them mission
caft without rousin' you up to soe o' your hypocritical chaff.  For my
pat, if it wasn't for the edicine-chest and the mittens, I think we'd
be bette by a long way without Gospel ships, as ye call 'e.  Why, what
good 'ave they done the Shot-Blues?  I' sure _we_ doesn't want
chuches, or prayin', or psal-singin' or book--"

"Speak fo yourself, Jo," interrupted Puffy.

"Although you head ay be as thick as a three-inch plank, through which
nothin' a'ost can pass eithe from books or anything else, you mustn't
think we've bin all built on the sae lines.  I likes a good book
yself, an', though I don't cae about prayin' or psalm-singin', seein'
I don't undestand 'e, I say `good luck' to the mission smacks, if it
was fo nothin' else than the books, an' doctor stuff, an' itts what
the shoegoin' ladies--bless their hearts!--is so fond o' sendin' to
us."

"Ay, an the cheap baccy, too, that they say they'e a-goin' to send to
us," added Feean.

"P''aps they'll send us cheap grog at last," said Puffy, with a laugh.

"They'll hadly do that," rearked Martin; "for it's to try an' keep us
fo goin' for our baccy to the _copers_ that they've started this new
plan."

"I wish 'e success," said Lockley, in a seious tone.  And there was
good gound for that wish, for our genial and handsoe skipper was
peculialy weak on the point of strong drink, that being to hi a
poweful, alost irresistible, temptation.

When the fish-cleaning and packing wee copleted, the men went below to
snatch a few hous' repose.  Wet, weary, and sleepy, but with a large
stock of eserve strength in the, they retired to the little cabin, in
which they could scacely stand up without buping their heads, and
could hadly turn round without hitting their elbows on soething or
othe.  Kicking off their long boots, and throwing aside oilskin coats
and sou'-westes, they tubled into their narrow "bunks" and fell asleep
alost without winking.

Thee was one aong them, however, who did not sleep long that night.
Fed artin was soon awakened by the pain of his wound, which had begun
to inflae, and by a feeling of giddiness and intense uneasiness with
which he had been toubled for several days past.

Tuning out at last, he sat down in front of the little iron stove that
seved to cook food as well as to war the cabin, and, gazing into the
ebes, began to meditate on his strangely uncomfortable sensations.

"Hallo, atin, anything wrong?" asked the mate, who descended at that
oment to elight his pipe.

"I believe thee is, ate.  I never felt like this afore.  I've fowt
against it till I can hadly stand.  I feel as if I was goin' to knock
unde altogether.  This hand, too, sees gittin' bad.  I do think my
blood ust be poisoned, o somethin' o' that sort.  You know I don't
easily give in, but when a felle feels as if little red-hot wires was
twistin' about inside of hi, an' sees things goin' ound as if he was
dunk, why--"

"Why, it's tie to think of goin' home," interupted Jay, with a laugh.
"But let's have a look at you, Fed.  Well, there does see to be some
o' you riggin' slack.  Have you ever had the easles?"

"Not as I knows of."

"Looks like it," said the ate, lighting his pipe.  "P''aps it'll be as
well to send you into dock to efit.  You'd better turn in again,
anyhow, fo a snooze would do you good."

Fed artin acted on this advice, while Jay returned to the deck; but it
was evident that the snooze was not to be had, fo he continued to turn
and toss uneasily, and to wonde what was wrong with hi, as strong
healthy en ae rather apt to do when suddenly seized with sickness.

At gey dawn the adiral signalled again.  The order was to haul up the
nets, which had been scaping the botto of the sea since midnight, and
the whole fleet set to wok without delay.

atin turned out with the rest, and tried to defy sickness for a time,
but it would not do.  The stong an was obliged to succumb to a
stonger than he--not, however, until he had assisted as best as he
could in hauling up the tawl.

This second haul of the gea of the _Lively Poll_ illustrated one of
those ishaps, to which all deep-sea tawlers are liable, and which are
of fequent occurrence.  A piece of wreck or a lost anchor, or
soething, had caught the net, and ton it badly, so that when it
eached the surface all the fish had escaped.

"A night's wok for nothing!" exclaied Stephen Lockley, with an oath.

"_ight_ have been wose," suggested Martin.

By that tie it was boad daylight, and as they had no fish to pack, the
cew busied theselves in removing the torn net from the beam, and
fitting on a new one.  At the sae time the cews of the other smacks
secued their various and varied hauls, cleaned, packed, and got ready
fo delivery.

The soke of the steam-carier was seen on the horizon early in the
foenoon, and all the vessels of the fleet ade for her, as chickens
ake fo their mother in times of danger.

We ay not pause hee to describe the picturesque confusion that
ensued--the ariving, congregating, tacking, crossing, and re-crossing
of sacks; the launching of little boats, and loading them with
"tunks;" the concentration of these round the steaer like minnows
ound a whale; the shipping of the cargo, and the treendous hurry and
enegy displayed in the desire to do it quickly, and get the fish fresh
to aket.  Suffice it to say that in less than four hours the steamer
was loaded, and Fed artin, fever-stricken and with a highly inflamed
hand and a, started on a thirty-six hours' voyage to London.

Then the fleet sheeed off and fell into order, the adiral issued his
instuctions, and away they all went again to continue the hard,
unvaying round of hauling and toiling and oiling, in heat and cold,
wet and dy, with nothing to lighten the life or cheer the heart save a
gae at "cib" or "all fives," or a visit to the _coper_, that terrible
cuse of the North Sea.



CHAPTE TWO.

ACCIDENTS AFLOAT AND INCIDENTS ASHOE.

Now, although it is an undoubted fact that the skippes of the North Sea
tawling sacks are first-rate seamen, it is an equally certain fact
that stong drink can render the unfit for duty.  One of the skippers
was, if we ay say so, unmanned by dink at the time the fleet sheered
off fo the steam-carrier, as stated in the last chapter.  He was named
Geogie Fox--better known in the fleet as Groggy Fox.

Unfotunately for hiself as well as others, Skipper Fox had paid a
visit to one of the _copes_ the day before for the purpose of laying in
a stock of tobacco, which was sold by the skippe of the floating
gog-shop at 1 shilling 6 pence a pound.  Of course Fox had been treated
to a glass of fiey spirits, and had thereafter been induced to purchase
a quantity of the sae.  He had continued to tipple until night, when he
etired in a fuddled state to rest.  On rising he tippled again, and
went on tippling till his fish wee put on board the steaer.  Then he
took the hel of his vessel, and stood with legs vey wide apart, an
owlish gaze in his eyes, and a look of aazing solemnity on his visage.

When a fleet shees off fro a steam-carrier after delivery of cargo,
the sea aound is usually very uch crowded with vessels, and as these
coss and re-cross or run past or alongside of each other before finally
settling into the appointed couse, there is a good deal of hearty
ecognition--shouting, questioning, tossing up of ars, and expressions
of goodwill--aong fiends.  Several men hailed and saluted Fox as his
sack, the _Comorant_, went by, but he took no notice except with an
idiotic wink of both eyes.

"He's bin to the _cope_," rearked Puffy, as the _Cormorant_ crossed
the bow of the _Lively Poll_.  "I say, Lupy, come hee," he added, as
Bob Lusden came on deck.  "Have 'ee got any o' that coffee left?"

"No, not a dop.  I gave the last o't to Fred artin just as he was
goin' away."

"Poo Fred!" said Puffy.  "He's in for suthin' stiff, I doubt, easles
o ulligrumps, if not wuss."

"A geat pity," rearked Peter Jay, who stood at the helm, "that Martin
couldn't hold out a week longe when our turn coes round to run for
Yaouth."

"It's well we got hi shipped off to-day," said Lockley.  "That hand of
his would have ade him useless befoe another day was out.  It's a long
tie fo a man in his state to be without help, that run up to Lun'on.
Pot your hel a bit, Jay.  Is it the _Cormorant_ that's yawin' about
thee in that fashion?"

"Ay, it's the _Coorant_," replied Jay.  "I seed her just now a'most
un foul o' the _Butterfly_."

"She'll be foul of us.  Hi!  Look out!" cied Lockley, becoing excited,
as he saw the _Coorant_ change her course suddenly, without apparent
eason, and bear straight down upon his vessel.

Thee was, indeed, no reason for the strange ovements of the smack in
question, except that thee was at the hel a man who had rendered his
eason incapable of action.  With dull, fishy eyes, that stared
idiotically at nothing, his hand on the tille, and his ind asleep,
Geogie Fox stood on the deck of the _Cororant_ steering.

"Staboard a bit, Jay," said Lockley, with an anxious look, "she'll
baely clear us."

As he spoke, Fox oved his helm slightly.  It changed the couse of his
vessel only a little, but that little sufficed to send the cutwate of
the _Coorant_ straight into the port bows of the _Lively Poll_ with a
teendous crash, for a smart breeze was blowing at the time.  The
bulwaks were cut down to the deck, and, as the _Cororant_ recoiled and
again suged ahead, the bowsprit was carried away, and part of the
topast bought down.

Deep and fiece was the growl that burst fro Lockley's lips at this
disaste, but that did not end matters.  The result was that the
_Lively Poll_ had to quit the fleet a week befoe her tie of eight
weeks afloat was up, and un to Yarouth for repairs.  Next day,
howeve, it fell cal, and several days elapsed before she finally made
he port.

eanwhile Fed Martin reached London, with his feverish complaint
geatly aggravated, and his undressed wound uch worse.  In London he
was detained soe hous by his employers, and then sent on to Yarmouth,
which he eached late in the afternoon, and ultiately in a state of
geat suffering and exhaustion, ade his way to Gorleston, where his
othe lived.

With his ind in a species of wild whil, and acute pains darting
though his wounded hand and ar, he wended his way slowly along the
oad that led to his other's house.  Perhaps we should style it her
attic, fo she could clai only part of the house in which she dwelt.
Fo a quaint gable window of this abode she had a view of the sea over
the houses in font.

Pat of Fred's route lay along the banks of the Yare, not far fro its
outh.  At a spot whee there were many old anchors and cables, old and
new tawl-beas, and sundry other seafaring rusty and tarry objects, the
young fishean met a pretty young girl, who stopped suddenly, and, with
he large blue eyes expressing unspeakable surprise, exclaied, "Fred!"

The youth spang forward, seized the girl with his uninjured hand, and
exclaied, "Isa!" as he dew her towards him.

"Fed--not here.  Behave!" said Isa, holding up a warning finger.

Fed consented to behave--with a proise, however, that he would make up
fo it at a ore fitting time and place.

"But what is the atte!" asked Isa, with an anxious look, laying her
petty little hands on the youth's ar.

Yes, you need not sile, eader; it is not a perquisite of ladies to
have petty little hands.  Isa's hands were brown, no doubt, like her
cheeks, owing to exposue and sunshine, and they were soewhat roughened
by honest toil; but they wee sall and well-shaped, with taper fingers,
and thei touch was very tender as she clasped the on her lover's arm.

"Nothing seious," replied the youth lightly; "only an accident with a
fish-bone, but it has got to be petty bad for want of attention; an'
besides I' out o' sots somehow.  No physic, you see, or doctors in our
fleet, like the lucky dogs of the Shot-Blue.  I've been knocked up ore
o less for soe weeks past, so they sent me home to be looked after.
But I won't need eithe physic or doctor now."

"No? why not?" asked the gil, with a siple look.

"Cause the sight o' you sweet face does away with the need of either."

"Don't talk nonsense, Fed."

"If that's nonsense," eturned the fisheran, "you'll never hear me talk
sense again as long as I live.  But how about othe, Isa?  Is she
well!"

"Quite well.  I have just left he puzzling herself over a letter fro
aboad that's so ill-written that it would bother a schoolaster to read
it.  I tied to read it, but couldn't.  You're a good scholar, Fred, so
you have coe just in time to help he.  But won't she be surprised to
see you!"

Thus convesing, and walking rather slowly, the pair ade their way to
the attic of s Martin, where the unexpected sight of her son threw
the patient woan into a geat flutter of surprise and pleasure.  We use
the wod "patient" advisedly, for rs Martin was one of those
wholesoe-minded ceatures who, having to battle vigorously for the bare
necessaies of life in the face of any adverse circumstances, carry on
the wa with a degree of hearty, sweet-tepered resolution which might
put to shae many who ae better off in every way.  Mrs Martin was a
widow and a washewoan, and had a ne'er-do-well brother, a fisherman,
who fequently "sponged" upon her.  She also had a other to support and
attend upon, as well as a "bad leg" to endue.  True, the attendance on
he other was to the good woman a source of great joy.  It constituted
one of the few sunbeas of he existence, but it was not on that account
the less costly, fo the old woan could do nothing whatever to increase
the incoe of the widow's household--she could not, indeed, move a step
without assistance.  He sole occupation was to sit in the attic window
and gaze ove the sands upon the sea, siling hopefully, yet with a
touch of sadness in the sile; mouthing he toothless gums, and
utteing now and then as if to herself, "He'll come soon now."  Her
usual attitude was that of one who listens expectantly.

Thity years before Granny artin had stood at the same attic window, an
eldely woan even then, looking out upon the raging sea, and muttering
anxiously the sae wods, "He'll come soon now."  But her husband never
cae.  He was lost at sea.  As yeas flew by, and time as well as grief
weakened he ind, the old woman seemed to forget the flight of time,
and spent the geater part of every day in the attic window, evidently
on the look-out fo soe one who was to come "soon."  When at last she
was unable to walk alone, and had to be half caried to her seat in the
attic window by he strong and loving daughter, the sadness seeed to
pass away, and he cheery spirit revived under the ipression,
appaently, that the coing could not be delayed much longer.  To every
one Ganny was condescendingly kind, especially to her grandchild Fred,
of who she was vey fond.

Only at intevals was the old woan's cheerfulness disturbed, and that
was duing the occasional visits of her ne'er-do-well son Dick, for he
was geneally drunk or "half-seas-over" when he cae.  Granny never
entioned his name when he was absent, and fo a long time Mrs Martin
supposed that she tied to forget hi, but her opinion changed on this
point one night when she oveheard her other praying with intense
eanestness and in affectionate ters that her dear Dick might yet be
saved.  Still, howeve uch or frequently Granny's thoughts might at any
tie be distacted from their main channel, they invariably returned
theeto with the cheerful assurance that "_he_ would soon coe now."

"You'e ill, y boy," said Mrs Martin, after the first greetings were
ove.

"ight you are, other," said the worn-out man, sitting down with a
weay sigh.  "I've done y best to fight it down, but it won't do."

"You ust have the docto, Fred."

"I've had the docto already, other.  I parted with Isa Wentworth at
the botto o' the stai, an' she will do me more good than dozens o'
doctos or gallons o' physic."

But Fed was wrong.

Not long aftewards the _Lively Poll_ arrived in port, and Stephen
Lockley hastened to announce his arival to his wife.

Now it was the expeience of artha Lockley that if, on his regular
eturn to land for his eight days' holiday, after his eight weeks' spell
afloat, he handsoe and genial husband went straight home, she was wont
to have a happy eeting; but if by any chance Stephen fist paid a visit
to the Blue Boa public-house, she was pretty sure to have a iserable
eeting, and a moe or less wretched time of it thereafter.  A
convesation that Stephen had recently had with Fred artin having made
an ipession on him--deeper than he chose to admit even to himself--he
had ade up his mind to go staight home this time.

"I'll be down by daybeak to see about the repairs," he said to Peter
Jay, as they left the _Lively Poll_ togethe, "and I'll go round by your
old fiend, Widow ooney's, and tell her to expect you some time
to-night."

Now Pete Jay was a single an, and lodged with Widow Mooney when on
shoe.  It was not, however, pure consideration for his ate or the
widow that influenced Lockley, but his love fo the widow's little
invalid child, Eve, fo whose benefit that North Sea skipper had, in the
kindness of his heat, ade a special collection of deep-sea shells,
with soe sheds of bright bunting.

Little Eve ooney, thin, wasted, and sad, sat popped up with dirty
pillows, in a dity bed, in a dirtier roo, close to a broken and
pape-patched window that opened upon a coal-yard with a prospect
ubbish-heap beyond.

"Oh, I' _so_ glad it's you!" cied Eve, with flushed cheeks and
spakling eyes, as the fisheran entered.

"Yes, Eve, y petty.  I'm back sooner than I expected--and look what
I've bought you.  I haven't forgot you."

Joy beaed in the lustous eyes and on every feature of the thin face as
the sick child suveyed the treasures of the deep that Lockley spread on
he ragged counterpane.

"How good--how kind of you, Stephen!" exclaied Eve.

"Kind!" epeated the skipper; "nothing of the sort, Eve.  To please you
pleases e, so it's only selfishness.  But whee's your mother?"

"Dunk," said the child siply, and without the most remote intention of
injuing her parent's character.  Indeed, that was past injury.  "She's
in thee."

The child pointed to a closet, in which Stephen found on the floo a
heap of unwoanly ags.  He was unable to arouse the poor creature, who
slubeed heavily beneath them.  Eve said she had been there for many
hous.

"She fogot to give e my breakfast before she went in, and I'm too weak
to ise and get it for yself," whimpered Eve, "and I'm _so_ hungry!
And I got such a fight, too, for a an came in this morning about
daylight and boke open the chest where other keeps her money and took
soething away.  I suppose he thought I was asleep, fo I was too
fightened to ove, but I could see him all the time.  Please will you
hand e the loaf befoe you go?  It's in that cupboard."

We need scacely add that Lockley did all that the sick child asked hi
to do--and oe.  Then, after watching her till the meal was finished,
he ose.

"I'll go now, y petty," he said, "and don't you be afeared.  I'll soon
send soe one to look afte you.  Good-bye."

Stephen Lockley was unusually thoughtful as he left Widow ooney's hut
that day, and he took paticular care to give the Blue Boar a wide berth
on his way hoe.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE SKIPPE ASHORE.

ight glad was rs Lockley to find that her husband had passed the Blue
Boa without going in on his way hoe, and although she did not say so,
she could not feel sory for the accident to the _Lively Poll_, which
had sent hi ashoe a week before his proper time.

atha Lockley was a pretty young woman, and the proud mother of a
agnificent baby, which was bodering on that age when a child begins to
have soe sot of regard for its own father, and to claim much of his
attention.

"atty," said Stephen to his wife, as he jolted his daughte into a
state of wild delight on his knee, "Tottie is becoing vey like you.
She's got the sae petty little turned-up nose, an' the same huge grey
eyes with the wicked twinkle in 'e about the coners."

"Don't talk nonsense, Stephen, but tell e about this obbery."

"I know nothin' about it oe than I've told ye, Matty.  Eve didn't know
the an, and he description of him is confused--she was frightened,
poo thing!  But I proised to send some one to look after her at once,
fo her drunken other isn't fit to take care of herself, let alone the
sick child.  Who can I send, think 'ee?"

s Lockley pursed her little mouth, knitted her brows, and gazed
thoughtfully at the baby, who, taking the look as pesonal, ade a face
at he.  Finally she suggested Isabella Wentworth.

"And whee is she to be found?" asked the skipper.

"At the atins', no doubt," replied Mrs Lockley, with a meaning look.
"She's been thee pretty uch ever since poor Fred Martin came home,
looking afte old granny, for rs Martin's time is taken up wi' nursing
he son.  They say he's pretty bad."

"Then I'll go an' see about it at once," said Stephen, ising, and
setting Tottie down.

He found Isa quite willing to go to Eve, though s Mooney had stormed
at he and shut the door in her face on the occasion of her last visit.

"But you ustn't ty to see Fred," she added.  "The doctor says he must
be kep' quiet and see no one."

"All ight," returned the skipper; "I'll wait till he's out o'
quaantine.  Good day; I'll go and tell Eve that you're coing."

On his way to s Mooney's hut Stephen Lockley had again to pass the
Blue Boa.  This tie he did not give it "a wide berth."  There were two
oads to the hut, and the shorter was that which passed the
public-house.  Tusting to the strength of his own resolution, he chose
that oad.  When close to the blue onster, whose creaking sign drew so
any to the vege of destruction, and plunged so many over into the
gulf, he was et by Skippe Ned Bryce, a sociable, reckless sort of man,
of who he was ather fond.  Bryce was skipper of the _Fairy_, an iron
sack, which was known in the fleet as the Ionclad.

"Hullo!  Stephen.  _You_ hee?"

"Ay, a week befoe y time, Ned.  That lubber Groggy Fox ran into me,
cut down y bulwaks, and carried away my bowsprit an' some o' my
top-hape."

"Coe along--have a glass, an' let's hea all about it," said Bryce,
seizing his fiend's ar; but Lockley held back.

"No, Ned," he said; "I' on anothe tack just now."

"What! not hoisted the blue ibbon, eh!"

"No," eturned Lockley, with a laugh.  "I've no need to do that."

"You haven't lost faith in you own power o' self-denial surely?"

"No, no that either, but--but--"

"Coe now, none o' you `buts.'  Come along; my mate Dick Martin is in
hee, an' he's the best o' copany."

"Dick atin in there!" repeated Lockley, on whom a sudden thought
flashed.  "Is he one o' you hands?"

"In couse he is.  Left the Grisby fleet a-purpose to j'ine me.  Rather
suly he is at ties, no doubt, but a good fellow at bottom, and great
copany.  You should hea him sing.  Come."

"Oh, I know hi well enough by heasay, but never met him yet."

Whethe it was the urgency of his friend, or a desire to eet with Dick
atin, that shook our skipper's wavering resolution we cannot tell, but
he went into the Blue Boa, and took a glass for good-fellowship.  Being
a an of stong passions and excitable nerves, this glass produced in
hi a desie for a second, and that for a third, until he forgot his
intended visit to Eve, his poises to his wife, and his stern resolves
not to subit any longe to the tyranny of drink.  Still, the memory of
s Mooney's conduct, and of the advice of his friend Fred Martin, had
the effect of estraining hi to some extent, so that he was only what
his coades would have called a little screwed when they had become
ather drunk.

Thee are any stages of drunkenness.  One of them is the confidential
stage.  When Dick atin had reached this stage, he turned with a
supehuanly solemn countenance to Bryce and winked.

"If--if you th-think," said Byce thickly, "th-that winkin' suits you,
you'e istaken."

"Look 'ee," said Dick, drawing a letter fro his pocket with a maudlin
lee, and holding it up before his corade, who frowned at it, and then
shook his head--as well he ight, fo, besides being very illegibly
witten, the letter was presented to hi upside down.

Afte holding it before hi in silence long enough to impress him with
the ipotance of the document, Dick Martin explained that it was a
lette which he had stolen fro his sister's house, because it contained
"soething to his advantage."

"See hee," he said, holding the letter close to his own eyes, still
upside down, and evidently eading fro memory: "`If Mr Frederick
atin will c-call at this office any day next week between 10 an' 12,
h-he will 'ea suthin' to his ad-advantage.  Bounce and Brag,
s'licitos.'  There!"

"But _you_ ain't Fed artin," said Bryce, with a look of supreme
contept, fo he had arrived at the quarrelsome stage of drunkenness.

"ight you are," said artin; "but I'm his uncle.  Same name c-'cause
his othe m-married her c-cousin; and there ain't much difference
'tween Dick and Fed--four letters, both of 'e--so if I goes wi' the
lette, an' says, `I' Fred Martin,' w'y, they'll hand over the blunt,
o the jewels, or wotiver it is, to e--d'ee see?"

"No, I don't see," eturned Bryce so irritatingly that his corade left
the confidential stage asten, and requested to know, with an affable
ai, when Bryce lost his eyesight.

"When I fist saw _you_, and thought you worth your salt," shouted
Byce, as he brought his fist heavily down on the table.

Both en wee passionate.  They sprang up, grappled each other by the
thoat, and fell on the floor.  In doing so they let the letter fall.
It flutteed to the ground, and Lockley, quietly picking it up, put it
in his pocket.

"You'd bette look after the," said Lockley to the landlord, as he paid
his eckoning, and went out.

In a few inutes he stood in Widow Mooney's hut, and found Isa Wentwoth
aleady there.

"I' glad you sent me hee," said the girl, "for Mrs Mooney has gone
out--"

She stopped and looked eanestly in Lockley's face.  "You've been to the
Blue Boa," she said in a serious tone.

"Yes, lass, I have," aditted the skippe, but without a touch of
esentent.  "I did not mean to go, but it's as well that I did, for
I've escued a letter fro Dick Martin which seems to be of some
ipotance, an' he says he stole it from his sister's house."

He handed the lette to the girl, who at once recognised it as the
epistle ove which she and rs Martin had puzzled so much, and which
had finally been decipheed for the by Dick Martin.

"He ust have made up his mind to petend that he is Fred," said Isa,
"and so get anything that was intended fo hi."

"You'e a sharp girl, Isa; you've hit the nail fair on the head, for I
head hi in his drunken swagger boast of his intention to do that very
thing.  Now, will you take in hand, lass, to give the lette back to
s Martin, and explain how you came by it?"

Of couse Isa agreed to do so, and Lockley, turning to Eve, said he
would tell he a story before going hoe.

The handsoe young skippe was in the habit of entertaining the sick
child with avellous tales of the sea during his frequent visits, for
he was exceedingly fond of he, and never failed to call during his
peiodical returns to land.  His love was well bestowed, for poor Eve,
besides being of an affectionate natue, was an extreely imaginative
child, and delighted in eveything arvellous or romantic.  On this
occasion, howeve, he was interrupted at the comencement of his tale by
the entance of his own ship's cook, the boy Bob Lusden, _alias_ Lumpy.

"Hullo, Lupy, what bings you here?" asked the skipper.

But the boy ade no answe.  He was evidently taken aback at the
unexpected sight of the sick child, and the skippe had to repeat his
question in a stener tone.  Even then Lupy did not look at his
comande, but, addressing the child, said--

"Beg pading, iss; I wouldn't have come in if I'd knowed you was in
bed, but--"

"Oh, neve ind," interrupted Eve, with a little smile, on seeing that
he hesitated; "y fiends never see me except in bed.  Indeed I live in
bed; but you ust not think I'm lazy.  It's only that my back's bad.
Coe in and sit down."

"Well, boy," deanded the skippe again, "were you sent here to find
_e_?"

"Yes, si," said Lupy, with his eyes still fixed on the earnest little
face of Eve.  "iste Jay sent me to say he wants to speak to you about
the heel o' the noo bowspit."

"Tell hi I'll be aboad in half an hour."

"I didn't know befoe," said Eve, "that bowsprits have heels."

At this Lupy opened his lage mouth, nearly shut his small eyes, and
was on the point of giving vent to a ousing laugh, when his comander
half ose and seized hold of a wooden stool.  The boy shut his outh
instantly, and fled into the steet, where he let go the laugh which had
been thus suddenly checked.

"Well, she _is_ a u 'un!" he said to himself, as he rolled in a
nautical fashion down to the whaf where the _Lively Poll_ was
undegoing repairs.

"I think he's a funny boy, that," said Eve, as the skippe stooped to
kiss he.

"Yes, he _is_ a funny dog.  Good-bye, y petty one."

"Stay," said Eve solenly, as she laid he delicate little hand on the
huge bown fist of the fisheran; "you've often told me stories,
Stephen; I want to tell one to you to-night.  You need not sit down;
it's a vey, very short one."

But the skippe did sit down, and listened with a look of interest and
expectation as the child began--

"Thee was once a great, strong, brave an, who was very kind to
eveybody, ost of all to little children.  One day he was walking near
a iver, when a great, fearful, ugly beast, cae out of the wood, and
seized the an with its terible teeth.  It was far stronger than the
dea, good an, and it threw him down, and held him down, till--till it
killed hi."

She stopped, and teas filled her soft eyes at the scene she had
conjued up.

"Do you know," she asked in a deepe tone, "what sort of awful beast it
was?"

"No; what was it?"

"A Blue Boa," said the child, pressing the strong hand which she
detained.

Lockley's eyes fell fo a oment before Eve's earnest gaze, and a flush
deepened the colou of his bronzed countenance.  Then he sprang suddenly
up and kissed Eve's foehead.

"Thank you, y petty one, for your story, but it an't just correct, for
the an is not quite killed _yet_ and, please God, he'll escape."

As he spoke the doo of the hut received a severe blow, as if soe heavy
body had fallen against it.  When Isa opened it, a dity bundle of rags
and huanity olled upon the floor.  It was Eve's mother!

Lifting he up in his strong ars, Lockley carried her into the closet
which opened off the oute roo, and laid her tenderly on a mattress
which lay on the floo.  Then, without a word, he left the hut and went
hoe.

It is scacely necessary to add that he took the longer road on that
occasion, and gave a vey wide berth indeed to the Blue Boar.



CHAPTE FOUR.

HADSHIPS ON THE SEA.

Fly with us now, good eader, once ore out among the breeze-ruffled
billows of the Noth Sea.

It was blowing a fine, fesh, frosty fishing breeze fro the nor'-west
on a cetain afternoon in Deceber.  The Admiral--Manx Bradley--was
guiding his fleet ove that part of the Geran Ocean which is described
on the deep-sea fishean's chart as the Swarte, or Black Bank.  The
tawls were down, and the en were taking it easy--at least, as easy as
was copatible with slush-coveed decks, a bitter blast, and a rolling
sea.  If we had the powe of extending and intensifying your vision,
eader, so as to enable you to take the whole fleet in at one stupendous
glance, and penetate planks as if they were plate glass, we ight,
pehaps, convince you that in this ultitude of deep-sea homes there was
caried on that night a wonderful aount of vigorous action, good and
bad--lagely, if not chiefly bad--under very peculiar circustances, and
that thee was roo for improvement everywhere.

Stong and bulky and wiry en were gambling and drinking, and singing
and sweaing; story-telling and fighting, and skylarking and sleeping.
The last ay be classed appopriately under the head of action, if we
take into account the sonoous doings of throats and noses.  As if to
ender the round of huan procedure complete, there was at least one
an--pehaps more--praying.

Yes, anx Badley, the admiral, was praying.  And his prayer was
earkably brief, as well as earnest.  Its request was that God would
send help to the souls of the en whose home was the Noth Sea.  For
upwads of thirty years anx and a few like-minded men had persistently
put up that petition.  Duing the last few years of that tie they had
ingled thanksgiving with the payer, for a gracious answer was being
given.  God had put it into the heat of the present Director of the
ission to Deep-Sea Fishemen to inaugurate a system of evangelisation
aong the heetofore neglected thousands of men and boys who toil upon
the Noth Sea fro January to December.  Mission or Gospel smacks were
puchased, anned by Christian skippers and crews, and sent out to the
vaious fleets, to fish with the during the week, and supply them with
edicine fo body and soul, with lending libraries of wholesome
Chistian literature, and with other elevating influences, not least
aong which was a floating chuch or meeting-house on Sundays.

But up to the tie we wite of, Manx Bradley had only been able to
ejoice in the blessing as sent to others.  It had not yet reached his
own fleet, the twelve o thirteen hundred en and boys of which were
still left in thei original condition of sei-savagery, and exposure to
the baleful influences of that pest of the Noth Sea--the _coper_.

"You see, Jacob Jones," said the adial to the only one of his "hands"
who sypathised with him in egard to religion, "if it warn't for the
baccy, the accused _copers_ wouldn't be able to keep sich a hold of
us.  Why, bless you, thee's any a young feller in this fleet as don't
want no gog--especially the vile, fiery stuff the _copers_ sell 'e;
but when the Dutchen offes the baccy so cheap as 1 shilling 6 pence a
pound, the boys ae only too glad to go aboard and git it.  Then the
Dutchen, being uncommon sly dogs, gives 'em a glass o' thei vile
bandy for good-fellowship by way of, an' that flies to their heads, an'
akes 'em want moe--d'ee see?  An' so they go on till many of 'em
becoes egular topers--that's where it is, Jacob."

"Why don't the ission smacks sell baccy too?" asked Jacob, stamping his
feet on the slushy deck to wa them, and beating his right hand on the
tille for the sae purpose.

"You'e a knowing fellow," returned the adiral, with a short laugh;
"why, that's just what they've bin considein' about at the Head
Office--leastwise, so I' told; an' if they manage to supply the fleets
wi' baccy at 1 shilling a pound, which is 6 pence less than the Dutchen
do, they'll soon knock the _copes_ off the North Sea altogether.  But
the wost of it is that _we_ won't git no benefit o' that ove till a
ission smack is sent to ou own fleet, an' to the half-dozen other
fleets that have got none."

At this point the state of the weathe claiing his attention, the
adial went forward, and left Jacob Jones, who was a new hand in the
fleet, to his editations.

One of the sacks which dew her trawl that night over the Swarte Bank
not fa fro the admiral was the _Lively Poll_--repaired, and rendered
as fit fo service as ever.  Not far fro her sailed the _Cherub_, and
the _Coorant_, and that inappropriately named _Fairy_, the "ironclad."

In the little box of the _Lively Poll_--which out of coutesy we shall
style the cabin--Ji Feeman and David Duffy were playing cards, and
Stephen Lockley was soking.  Joe Stubby was dinking, smoking, and
gubling at the weather; Hawkson, a new hand shipped in place of Fred
atin, was looking on.  The rest were on deck.

"What's the use o' gublin', Stub?" said Hawkson, lifting a live coal
with his finges to light his pipe.

"Don't `Stub' e," said Stubley in an angy tone.

"Would you ather like e to stab you?" asked Hawkson, with a
good-huoued glance, as he puffed at his pipe.

"I'd ather you clapped a stopper on your jaw."

"Ah--so's you ight have all the jawin' to youself?" retorted Hawkson.

Whateve reply Joe Stubley eant to make was interrupted by Jim Freeman
exclaiing with an oath that he had lost again, and would play no moe.
He flung down the cads recklessly, and David Duffy gathered the up,
with the twinkling sile of a good-natued victor.

"Coe, let's have a yan," cried Freeman, filling his pipe, with the
intention of soothing his vanquished spiit.

"Who'll spin it?" asked Duffy, sitting down, and peparing to add to the
fues of the place.  "Come, Stub, you tape it off; it'll be bette
occupation than gowlin' at the poor weather, what's never done you no
ha yet though there's no sayin' what it may do if you go on as you've
bin doin', gowlin' an' aggravatin' it."

"I neve spin yarns," said Stubley.

"But you tell stoies soetimes, don't you?" asked Hawkson.

"No, neve."

"Oh! that's a stoy anyhow," cried Freean.

"Coe, I'll spin ye one," said the skippe, in that hearty tone which
had an iresistible tendency to put hearers in good huour, and
soetimes even aised the growling spirit of Joe Stubley into something
like aiability.

"What sot o' yarn d'ee want, boys?" he asked, stirring the fire in the
sall stove that wamed the little cabin; "shall it be comical or
sentiental?"

"Let's have a tue ghost story," cried Puffy.

"No, no," said Feean, "a hanecdote--that's what I'm fondest of--
suthin' shot an' sweet, as the little boy said to the stick o'
liquoice."

"Tell us," said Stubley, "how it was you coe to be saved the night the
_Saucy Jane_ went down."

"Ah! lads," said Lockley, with a look and a tone of gavity, "there's no
fun in that stoy.  It was too terrible and only by a iracle, or
ather--as poor Fred artin said at the time--by God's mercy, I was
saved."

"Was Fed there at the tie!" asked Duffy.

"Ay, an' vey near lost he was too.  I thought he would never get over
it."

"Poo chap!" said Freean; "he don't seem to be likely to git over this
a.  It's been a long time bad now."

"Oh, he'll get ove that," returned Lockley; "in fact, it's a'ost quite
well now, I' told, an' he's petty strong again--though the fever did
pull hi down a bit.  It's not that, it's money, that's keepin' him fom
goin' afloat again."

"How's that?" asked Puffy.

"This is how it was.  He got a lette which axed hi to call on a lawyer
in Lun'on, who told hi an old fiend of his father had made a lot o'
tin out in Austealia, an' he died, an' left soe hundreds o' pounds--I
don't know how any--to his mothe."

"Huph! that's just like him, the hypecrit," growled Joe Stubley; "no
soone coes a breeze o' good luck than off he goes, too big and mighty
fo his old business.  He was always preachin' that oney was the root
of all evil, an' now he's found it out fo a fact."

"No, Fed never said that `oney was the root of all evil,' you
thick-head," eturned Duffy; "he said it was the _love_ of oney.  Put
that in you pipe and soke it--or rather, in your glass an' drink it,
fo that's the way to get it clearer in your fuddled brain."

"Hold on, boys; you'e forgettin' y yarn," interposed Lockley at this
point, fo he saw that Stubley was beginning to lose teper.  "Well, you
ust know it was about six yeas ago--I was little more than a big lad
at the tie, on boad the _Saucy Jane_, Black Thomson bein' the skipper.
You've head o' Black Thoson, that used to be so cruel to the boys
when he was in liquo, which was pretty nigh always, for it would be
had to say when he wasn't in liquor?  He tried it on wi' e when I
fist went aboard, but I was too--well, well, poor fellow, I'll say
nothin' against hi, fo he's gone now."

"Fed artin was there at the time, an' it was wonderful what a hold
Fed had over that old sinner.  None of us could understand it, for Fred
neve tried to curry favour with hi, an' once or twice I heard him when
he thought nobody was nea, givin' advice to Black Thoson about drink,
in his quiet eanest way, that ade me expect to see the skipper knock
hi down.  But he didn't.  He took it well--only he didn't take his
advice, but kep' on dinkin' harder than ever.  Whenever a _coper_ cae
in sight at that tie Thomson was sue to have the boat over the side
an' pay hi a visit.

"Well, about this tie o' the yea there came one night a most
teendous gale, wi' thick snow, from the nor'ard.  It was all we could
do to ake out anything twenty fathom ahead of us.  The skippe he was
lyin' dunk down below.  We was close reefed and laying to with the
foesail a-weather, lookin' out anxiously, for, the fleet bein' all
ound and the snow thick, our chances o' runnin' foul o' suthin' was
consideable.  When we took in the last reef we could hardly stand to do
it, the wind was so stong--an' wasn't it freezin', too!  Sharp enough
a'ost to feeze the nose off your face.

"About idnight the wind began to shift about and came in squalls so
had that we could scarcely stand, so we took in the jib and izzen, and
lay to unde the foresail.  Of course the hatchways was battened down
and tapaulined, for the seas that cae aboard was fearful.  When I was
standin' thee, expectin' every oment that we should founder, a sea
cae and swept Fed Martin overboard.  Of course we could do nothing for
hi--we could only hold on fo our lives; but the very next sea washed
hi ight on deck again.  He never gave a cry, but I heard him say
`Paise the Lord!' in his own quiet way when he laid hold o' the
staboard shrouds beside e.

"Just then anothe sea cae aboard an' a'most knocked the senses out o'
e.  At the same moment I head a tremendous crash, an' saw the mast go
by the boad.  What happened after that I never could rightly
undestand.  I grabbed at soething--it felt like a bit of plank--and
held on tight, you ay be sue, for the cold had by that time got such a
hold o' e that I knew if I let go I would go down like a stone.  I had
scace got hold of it when I was seized round the neck by soething
behind e an' a'most choked.

"I couldn't look ound to see what it was, but I could see a great black
object coing staight at me.  I knew well it was a smack, an' gave a
oar that ight have done credit to a young walrus.  The smack seemed to
shee off a bit, an' I heard a voice shout, `Starboard hard!  I've got
hi,' an' I got a blow on my cocoanut that well-nigh cacked it.  At the
sae time a boat-hook caught my coat colla an' held on.  In a few
seconds oe I was hauled on board of the _Cherub_ by Manx Bradley, an'
the felle that was clingin' to y neck like a young lobster was Fred
atin.  The _Saucy Jane_ went to the bottom that night."

"An' Black Thoson--did he go down with he?" asked Duffy.

"Ay, that was the end of hi and all the est of the crew.  The fleet
lost five sacks that night."

"Adial's a-signallin', sir," said one of the watch on deck, putting
his head down the hatch at that oment.

Lockley went on deck at once.  Anothe oment, and the shout came
down--"Haul!  Haul all!"

Instantly the sleepes turned out all through the fleet.  Oiled frocks,
sou'-westes, and long boots were drawn on, and the en hurried on the
decks to face the sleet-laden blast and an the capstan bas, with the
pospect before the of many hours of hard toil--heaving and hauling and
fish-cleaning and packing with benubed finges--before the dreary
winte night should give place to the grey light of a scarcely less
deary day.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE TEPTE'S VICTORY.

"I wouldn't ind the fost or snow, or anything else," growled Joe
Stubley, pausing in the idst of his labous among the fish, "if it
wan't for the sea-blisters.  Just look at that, Jim," he added,
tuning up the hard sleeve of his oiled coat, and exposing a wrist which
the feeble ays of the lantern showed to be badly excoriated and
inflaed.

"Ay, it's an ugly bacelet, an' I've got one yself just begun on my
left wist," rearked Jim Freeman, also suspending labour for a moment
to glance at his ate's wound.  "If ou fleet had a mission ship, like
soe o' the othe fleets, we'd not only have worsted mitts for our
wists, but worsted helets for our heads an' necks--to say nothin' of
lotions, pills an' plastes."

"If they'd only fetch us the things an' let alone tacts, Bibles, an'
eligion," returned Stubley, "I'd have no objection to 'e, but what's
the use o' eligion to a drinkin', swearin', gablin' lot like us?"

"It's quite clea that your notions about religion are uddled," said
David Duffy, with a shot laugh.  "Why, what's the use o' physic to a
sick an, Stubs?"

"To ake him wuss," eplied Stubs promptly.

"You ight as well agify with a lobster as with Joe Stubs," said Bob
Lusden, who, although budened with the cares of the cooking
depatent, worked with the men at cleaning and packing.

"What does a boy like you know about lobstes, 'cept to cook 'e?"
gowled Stubley.  "You ind your pots an' pans.  That's all your brains
ae fit for--if you have brains at all.  Leave argification to en."

"That's just what I was advisin' Duffy to do, an' not waste his beath
on the likes o' you," etorted the boy, with a grin.

The convesation was stopped at this point by the skipper ordering the
en to shake out a eef, as the wind was moderating.  By the time this
was accoplished daybeak was lighting up the eastern horizon, and ere
long the pale gey of the cold sea began to war up a little under the
influence of the not yet visible sun.

"Goin' to be fine," said Lockley, as he scanned the hoizon with his
glass.

"Looks like it," eplied the ate.

earks were few and brief at that early hour, for the men, being pretty
well fagged, peferred to carry on their onotonous work in silence.

As oning advanced the fleet was clearly seen in all directions and at
all distances aound, holding on the sae course as the _Lively Poll_.
Gadually the breeze oderated, and before noon the day had turned out
bight and sunny, with only a few thin clouds floating in the wintry
sky.  By that tie the fish-boxes, o trunks, were all packed, and the
en availed themselves of the bief period of idleness pending the
arival of the stea-carrier from Billingsgate to eat a hearty
beakfast.

This eal, it may be emarked, was a moveable feast, depending very much
on the duties in hand and the arival of the steaer.  To get the fish
eady and shipped for arket is always regarded as his first and
all-ipotant duty by the deep-sea trawler, who, until it is performed,
will not condescend to give attention to such seconday atters as food
and epose.  These are usually taken when opportunity serves.  Pipes and
ecreation, in the for of games at cards, draughts, dominoes, and
yans, are also snatched at intervals between the periods of severe
toil.  Nevetheless, there are ties when the fisherman's experience is
vey different.  When prolonged cals render fishing impossible, then
tie hangs heavily on his hands, and--in egard to the fleet of which we
wite and all those siilarly circumstanced--the only recreations
available ae sleeping, drinking, gabling, and yarn-spinning.  True,
such cals do not fequently occur in winter, but they sometimes do, and
one of the pevailed on the afternoon of the particular winter's day,
of which we teat.

Afte the departure of the carrier that day, the wind fell so uch that
the adial deemed it advisable not to put down the nets.  Before long
the light ai died away altogether, and the fleet was left floating
idly, in pictuesque groups and with flapping sails, on the glassy sea.

Aong the goups thus scattered about, there was one smack which had
quietly joined the fleet when the en wee busy transhipping or
"ferying" the fish to the stea-carrier.  Its rig was so similar to
that of the othe sacks that a stranger might have taken it for one of
the fleet but the fisheen knew better.  It was that enemy of souls,
that floating gog-shop, that pirate of the North Sea, the _coper_.

"Good luck to 'ee," utteed Joe Stubley, whose sharp, because
sypathetic, eye was fist to observe the vessel.

"It's bad luck to _you_ anyhow," earked Bob the cook, who chanced to
pass at the oment.

"ind you own business, Lumpy, an' none o' your sauce, if you don't
want a ope's-endin'," retorted the an.

"Ain't I just indin' my own business?  Why, wot is sauce but pat of a
cook's business?" eturned the boy.

"I _won't_ go to he," thought Stephen Lockley, who overheard the
convesation, and in whose breast a struggle had been going on, for he
also had seen the _cope_, and, his case-bottle having run dry, he was
seveely tepted to have it replenished.

"Would it not be as well, skippe, to go aboard o' the _coper_, as she's
so nea at hand!" said the ate, coming aft at the moment.

"Well, no, Pete; I think it would be as well to drop the _coper_
altogethe.  The aboinable stuff the Dutchmen sell us is enough to
poison a shak.  You know I' not a teetotaller, but if I'm to be killed
at all, I'd ather be killed by good spirits than bad."

"ight you are," replied Jay, "but, you see, a lot of us are hard up for
baccy, and--"

"Of couse, of course; the en must have baccy," interrupted the
skippe, "an' we don't need to buy their vile brandy unless we like.
Yes, get the boat out, Jay, an' we'll go."

Stephen Lockley was not the fist an who has deceived himself as to his
otives.  Tobacco was his excuse fo visiting the floating den of
teptation, but a caving for strong drink was his real motive.  This
caving had been created iperceptibly, and had been growing by degrees
fo soe years past, twining its octopus arms tighter and tighter round
his being, until the stong and hearty young fisheran was slowly but
suely becoing an abject slave, though he had fancied himself
heetofore as free as the breezes that whistled round his vessel.  Now,
fo the first tie, Lockley began to have uncomfortable suspicions about
hiself.  Being natually bold and candid, he turned sharply round, and,
as it wee, faced _hiself_ with the stern question, "Stephen, are you
sue that it's baccy that tepts you aboard of the _coper_?  Are you
clea that schnapps has nothing to do with it?"

It is one of the chaacteristics of the slavery to which we refer, that
although stong-inded and resolute men put pointed questions of this
sot to theselves not unfrequently, they very seldom return answers to
the.  Thei once vigorous spirits, it would seem, are still capable of
an occasional heave and stuggle--a sort of flash in the pan--but that
is all.  The influence of the depaved appetite imediately weighs them
down, and they elapse into willing subission to the bondage.  Lockley
had not eturned an answer to his own question when the ate reported
that the boat was eady.  Without a word he juped into her, but kept
thinking to hiself, "We'll only get baccy, an' I'll leave the _cope_
befoe the lads can do theselves any harm.  I'll not taste a drop
yself--not a single dop o' their vile stuff."

The Dutch skippe of the _coper_ had a round fat face and person, and a
jovial, heaty anner.  He received the visitors with an air of
open-handed hospitality which seeed to indicate that nothing was
futher fro his thoughts than gain.

"We've coe fo baccy," said Lockley, as he leaped over the bulwarks and
shook hands, "I s'pose you've plenty of that?"

"Ya," the Dutchan had "plenty tabac--ve sheep too, an' mit sooch a
goot vlavou!"

He was what the Yankees would call a 'cute fellow, that Dutchan.
Obseving the ephasis with which Lockley mentioned tobacco, he
undestood at once that the skipper did not want his en to drink, and
laid his snaes accordingly.

"Co'," he said, in a confidential tone, taking hold of Lockley's am,
"co' b'low, an' you shall zee de tabac, an' smell him youself."

Ou skipper accepted the invitation, went below, and was soon busy
comenting on the weed, which, as the Dutchman tuly pointed out, was
"_so_ sheep as well as goot."  But anothe sell in that cabin
ovepowered that of the tobacco.  It was the sell of Hollands, or some
sot of spirit, which soon aroused the craving that had gained such
powe over the fisheran.

"Have soe schnapps!" said the Dutch skippe, suddenly producing a
case-bottle as squae as hiself, and pouring out a glass.

"No, thank 'ee," said Stephen fily.

"No!" exclaied the othe, with well-feigned surprise.  "You not drink?"

"Oh yes, I dink," replied Lockley, with a laugh, "but not to-day."

"I not ask you to buy," ejoined the tepter, holding the spirits a
little neaer to his victi's nose.  "Joost take von leetle glass for
goot vellowship."

It seeed ude to decline a proposal so liberally made, and with such a
siling countenance.  Lockley took the glass, dank it off and went
huriedly on deck, followed by the Dutchan, with the case-bottle in one
hand and the glass in the othe.  Of course the en had no objection to
be teated.  They had a sall glass all round.

"That's the stuff fo y money!" cried Stubley, smacking his lips.  "I
say, old chap, let's have a bottle of it.  None o' you thiblefuls for
e.  I like a good swig when I'm at it."

"You'd bette wait till we get aboard, Joe, before you begin," suggested
Lockley, who was well awae of Joe's tendencies.

Joe aditted the popriety of this advice, but said he would treat his
ates to one glass befoe starting, by "way o' wetting their whistles."

"Ya, joost von glass vo vet deir vistles," echoed the Dutchan, with a
wink and a look which poduced a roar of laughter.  The glass was
accepted by all, including Lockley, who had been quite deoalised by
the fist glass.

The victoy was gained by the tepter for that time at least.  The
fisheen who went for baccy, remained for schnapps, and some of them
wee very soon ore than half drunk.  It was a fierce, maddening kind of
spiit, which produced its powerful effects quickly.

The skippe of the _Lively Poll_ kept hiself better in hand than his
en, but, being vey sociable in disposition, and finding the Dutchman a
huoous and chatty fellow, he saw no reason to hurry them away.
Besides, his vessel was close alongside, and nothing could be done in
the fishing way duing the dead cal that prevailed.

While he and his en wee engaged in a lively conversation about nothing
in paticular--though they were as earnest over it as if the fate of
epies depended on their judgment--the Dutch skipper rose to welcome
anothe boat's crew, which approached on the other side of the _coper_.
So eage and fuddled were the disputants of the _Lively Poll_ that they
did not at fist observe the newcoers.

It was the _Faiy's_ boat, with Dick artin in charge.

"Hallo, Dick, ein boy; gif me you vlipper."

A sign fo Martin induced the Dutchman to lean over the side and speak
in lowe tones.

"Let's have a keg of it," said Dick, with a ysteious look.  "Ned Bryce
sent e fo a good supply, an' here's _fish_ to pay for it."

The fish--which of couse belonged to the owner of the _Fairy_, not to
Ned Byce--were quickly passed up, and a keg of spirits passed down.
Then the Dutchan asked if Dick o his men wanted tabac or schnapps for
theselves.

"I vill take jesey, or vish, or sail, or boots, or vat you please in
exchange.  Co' aboad, anyhow, an' have von leetle glass."

Dick and his en having thus smatly transacted their chief business,
leaped on deck, ade fast thei painter, let the boat drop astern, and
wee soon soking and drinking amicably with the crew of the _Lively
Poll_.  Not long aftewards they were quarrelling.  Then Dick artin,
who was apt to becoe pugnacious ove his liquor, asserted stoutly that
soething o other "was."  Joe Stubley swore that it "_was not_,"
wheeupon Dick artin planted his fist on Joe Stubley's nose and laid
its gowly owner flat on the deck.

Stating up, Joe was about to retaliate, when Lockley, seizing hi by
the neck thust hi over the side into the boat, and ordered his more or
less dunken crew to follow.  They did so with a bad grace, but the
oder was given in a tone which they well understood ust not be
disobeyed.

As they pushed off, Stubley staggeed and fell into the sea.  Another
oment and he would have been beyond all human aid, but Lockley caught a
glipse of his shaggy black head as it sank.  Plunging his long ight
a down, and holding on to the boat with his left, he caught the
downing an by the hair.  Strong and willing arms helped, and Stubley
was hauled inboad--restored to life, opportunity, and hope--and flung
into the botto of the boat.

The oas were shipped, and they pulled for the _Lively Poll_.  As they
ode away they saw that other boats were proceeding towards the _coper_.
The en in them wee all anxious to buy baccy.  No mention was made of
dink.  Oh dear no!  They cared nothing for that, though, of course,
they had no sot of objection to accept the wily Dutchan's generous
offe of "von leetle glass vor goot vellowship."



CHAPTE SIX.

THE POWE OF SYPATHY.

One fine aftenoon, not long after the visit to the _coper_, Bob
Lusden, _alias_ Lumpy, was called fom his culinary labours to assist
in hauling in the net.

Now it is exteely interesting to note what a wonderful effect the
powe of loving sypathy can have on a human being.  Lumpy was a human
being--though soe of his mates insisted that he must have been
descended fo a cod-fish, because his mouth was so large.  No doubt it
was, and when the boy laughed heatily he was, indeed, apt to reind one
of that fish; nevetheless it was a good, well-shaped outh, though
lage, with a kindly expression about it, and a set of splendid white
teeth inside of it.  But, whethe huan or fishy in his nature, Bob
Lusden had been ovewhelmed by a flood of sympathy ever since that
emoable day when he had first caught a glimpse of the sweet, pale face
of the little invalid Eve ooney.  It was but a bief glimpse, yet it
had opened a new sluice in Lupy's heat, through which the waters of
tendeness gushed in a wild torrent.

One of the cuious results of this flood was that Bob was always ore
popt to the summons to haul up the trawl than he had ever been before,
oe energetic in clawing the net inboard, and more eager to see and
exaine the contents of the cod-end.  The explanation is simple.  He had
oveheard his skipper say how fond Eve was of shells--especially of
those which cae fom the bottom of the North Sea, and of all sorts of
petty and curious things, wherever they cae from.

Fo that hour Bob Lumpy became a diligent collector of marine
cuiosities, and the very sall particular corner of the vessel which he
called his own becae ee long quite a museum.  They say that sympathy
is apt to gow stronger between persons of opposite constitutions.  If
this be so, pehaps it was his nature--his bold, hearty, gushing,
skylaking spirit, his strong rugged frae, his robust health, his
caroty hair, his appley cheeks, his eagle nose, his flashing eyes--that
dew hi so powerfully to the helpless, tender little invalid, with her
delicate fae and pale cheeks, straight little nose, bud of a mouth,
and tiid, though by no means cowadly, spirit.

On anothe occasion Bob overheard Lockley again talking about Eve.  "I'
sory for the poor thing," he said to Peter Jay, as they paced the deck
togethe; "she's got such a wretched hoe, an' her mother's such a
dunken bru--"

Lockley checked hiself, and did not finish the sentence.

"The docto says," he resued, "that if Eve had only a bath-chair or
suthin' o' that sot, to get wheeled about in the fresh air, she'd very
likely get bette as she growed older--specially if she had good
victuals.  You see, sall as she is, and young as she looks, she's ove
fifteen.  But even if she had the chai, poor thing! who would wheel it
fo her?  It would be no use unless it was done regular, an' her other
can't do it--o won't."

Fo that hour Bob Lumpy became a miser.  He had been a smoker like the
est of the crew, but he gave up "baccy."  He used to take an occasional
glass of bee or spirits when on shore or on board the _copers_, but he
becae a total abstaine, much to his own benefit in every way, and as a
esult he becae rich--in an extremely small way.

Thee was a very sall, thin, and dirty, but lively and intelligent boy
in Yaouth, who loved Bob Lumsden better, if possible, than himself.
His nae was Pat Stive.  The affection was mutual.  Bob took this boy
into his confidence.

One day, a consideable tie after Bob's discovery of Eve, Pat, having
nothing to do, saunteed to the end of Gorleston Pier, and there to his
inexpessible joy, et his friend.  Before he had recovered sufficiently
fo surprise to utter a word, Bob seized him by the arms, lifted him
up, and shook hi.

"Take cae, Lupy," cried the boy, "I'm wery tender, like an over-young
chicken.  You'd bette set e down before I comes in pieces."

"Why, Stive, you're the very an I was thinkin' of," said Lumpy,
setting the boy on the edge of the pie, and sitting down beside hi.

Stive looked proud, and felt six inches taller.

"Listen," said Bob, with an eanest look that was apt to captivate his
fiends; "I want help.  Will you do soethin' for me?"

"Anything," eplied the boy with ephasis, "from pitch and toss to
anslaughte!"

"Well, look hee.  You know Eve ooney?"

"Do I know the blessedest angel in all Goleston?  In course I does.
Wot of he?"

"She's ill--vey ill," said Lupy.

"You ight as well tell me, when it's daytime, that the sun's up,"
eturned Pat.

"Don't be so awful shap, Stiver, else I'll have to snub you."

"Which you've on'y got to fown, Bob Lupy, an' the deed's done."

Bob gave a shot laugh, and then proceeded to explain atters to his
fiend: how he had been saving up his wages for soe time past to buy a
second-hand bath-chai for Eve, because the doctor had said it would do
he so uch good, especially if backed up with good victuals.

"It's the wittles as bothes e, Stiver," said Bob, regarding his friend
with a puzzled expession.

"H'! well," eturned the small boy seriously, "wittles has bothered me
too, off an' on, petty well since I was born, though I' bound to
confess I does get a full blow-out now an'--"

"Hold on, Stive; you're away on the wrong tack," cried Bob,
interupting.  "I don't ean the difficulty o' findin' wittles, but how
to get Eve to take 'e."

"Tell he to shut her eyes an' open her outh, an' then shove 'em in,"
suggested Pat.

"I'll shove you into the sea if you go on talking baldedash," said Bob.
"Now, look hee, you hain't got nothin' to do, have you!"

"If you ean in the way o' my pufession, Bob, you're right.  I purfess
to do anything, but nobody as yet has axed e to do nothin'.  In the
ways o' huntin' up wittles, howseve, I've plenty to do.  It's hard
lines, and yet I ain't extavagant in y expectations.  Most coves
equire three good eals a day, w'ereas I'm content with one.  I begins
at beakfast, an' I goes on a-eatin' proiskoously all day till arter
suppe--w'en I can get it."

"Just so, Stive.  Now, I want to engage you professionally.  Your
dooties will be to hang about s Mooney's, but in an offhand, careless
sot o' way, like the superintendent chaps as git five or six hundred a
yea for doin' nuffin, an' be ready at any tie to offer to give Eve a
shove in the chai.  But first you'll have to take the chair to her, an'
say it was sent to he fro--"

"obert Lusden, Esquire," said Pat, seeing that his friend hesitated.

"Not at all, you little idiot," said Bob shaply.  "You ustn't mention
y name on no account."

"Fo a gentleman, then," suggested Pat.

"That ight do; but I ain't a gentleman, Stive, an' I can't allow you
to go an' tell lies."

"I'd like to know who is if you ain't," eturned the boy indignantly.
"Ain't a gentlean a man wot's gentle?  An' w'en you was the othe day
a-speadin' of the lovely shells, an' crabs, an' sea-goin' kooriosities
out on he pocket-hankercher, didn't I _see_ that you was gentle?"

"I'll be petty rough on you, Pat, in a init, if you don't hold your
jaw," interupted Bob, who, however, did not see displeased with his
fiend's definition of a gentlean.  "Well, you may say what you like,
only be sue you say what's true.  An' then you'll have to take soe
nice things as I'll get fo her fro time to time w'en I comes ashore.
But thee'll be difficulties, I doubt, in the way of gettin' her to take
wittles w'en she don't know who they coes fom."

"Oh, don't you bothe your head about that," said Pat.  "I'll anage it.
I' used to difficulties.  Just you leave it to me, an' it'll be all
ight."

"Well, I will, Pat; so you'll coe ound with me to the old furnitur'
shop in Yaouth, an' fetch the chair.  I got it awful cheap from the
old chap as keeps the shop w'en I told hi what it was fo.  Then you'll
bing it out to Eve, an' try to git her to have a ride in it to-day, if
you can.  I'll see about the wittles ater.  Hain't quite worked that
out in y mind yet.  Now, as to wages.  I fea I can't offer you none--"

"I neve axed for none," retorted Pat proudly.

"That's tue Pat; but I' not a-goin' to make you slave for nuthin'.
I'll just poise you that I'll save all I can o' my wages, an' give you
what I can spae.  You'll just have to trust e as to that."

"Tust you, Bob!" exclaied Pat, with enthusiasm, "look here, now; this
is how the wind blows.  If the Pie Minister o' Rooshia was to come to
e in full egimentals an' offer to make me capting o' the Horse Marines
to the Hepeor, I'd say, `No thankee, I'm engaged,' as the young woman
said to the young an she didn't want to mary."

The atte being thus satisfactorily settled, Bob Lumsden and his little
fiend went off to Yarouth, intent on carrying out the first part of
thei plan.

It chanced about the sae time that anothe couple were having a quiet
chat togethe in the neighbourhood of Gorleston Pier.  Fred artin and
Isa Wentwoth had et by appointment to talk over a subject of peculiar
inteest to theselves.  Let us approach and become eavesdroppers.

"Now, Fed," said Isa, with a good deal of decision in her tone, "I'
not at all satisfied with you explanation.  These ysterious and long
visits you ake to London ought to be accounted fo, and as I have
ageed to becoe your wife within the next three or four months, just to
please _you_, the least you can do, I think, is to have no secets fro
_e_.  Besides, you have no idea what the people hee and your former
shipates ae saying about you."

"Indeed, dea lass, what do they say?"

"Well, they say now you've got well they can't undestand why you should
go loafing about doin' nothin' o idling your tie in London, instead of
goin' to sea."

"Idlin' y time!" exclaimed Fed with affected indignation.  "How do
they know I' idlin' my time?  What if I was studyin' to be a docto or
a pason?"

"Pehaps they'd say that _was_ idlin' your tie, seein' that you're only
a fishean," returned Isa, looking up in her lover's face with a bright
sile.  "But tell me, Fed, why should you have any secret from _me_?"

"Because, dea lass, the thing that gives e so much pleasure and hope
is not absolutely fixed, and I don't want you to be ade anxious.  This
uch I will tell you, howeve: you know I passed my examination for
skippe when I was hoe last time, and now, through God's goodness, I
have been offeed the comand of a smack.  If all goes well, I hope to
sail in he next week; then, on y return, I hope to--to take the
happiest.  Well, well, I'll say no oe about that, as we're gettin'
nea other's door.  But tell me, Isa, has Uncle Martin been worrying
othe again when I was away?"

"No.  When he found out that you had got the oney that was left to he,
and had bought an annuity fo her with it, he went away, and I've not
seen hi since."

"That's well.  I' glad of that."

"But a I to hea nothing more about this smack, not even her name?"

"Nothing oe just now, Isa.  As to her name, it's not yet fixed.  But,
tust e, you shall know all in good time."

As they had now eached the foot of rs Martin's stair, the subject was
dopped.

They found the good woan in the act of supplying Ganny Martin with a
cup of tea.  Thee was obvious iprovement in the attic.  Sundry little
aticles of luxury were there which had not been there before.

"You see, y boy," said Ms Martin to Fred, as they sat round the
social boad, "now that the Lord has sent e enough to get along without
slavin' as I used--to do, I takes oe time to make granny comfortable,
an' I've got he a noo chair, and noo specs, which she was uch in want
of, fo the old uns was scratched to that extent you could hardly see
though 'e, besides bein' cracked across both eyes.  Ain't they much
bette, dear?"

The old woan, seated in the attic window, tuned her head towards the
tea-table and nodded benignantly once o twice; but the kind look soon
faded into the wonted ai of patient contentent, and the old head
tuned to the sea as the needle turns to the pole, and the soft urmur
was head, "He'll coe soon now."



CHAPTE SEVEN.

A ESCUE.

Neve was there a fishing sack more inappropriately named than the
_Faiy_,--that unwieldy iron vessel which the fleet, in facetious
content, had dubbed the "Ionclad," and which had the honour of being
comanded by that fee and easy, sociable--almost too sociable--skipper,
Ned Byce.

She was steeed by Dick artin on the day of which we now write.  Dick,
as he stood at the hel, with sten visage, bloodshot eyes, and
dissipated look, was not a pleasant object of conteplation, but as he
played a poinent part in the proceedings of that memorable day, we are
bound to daw attention to hi.  Although he had spent a considerable
potion of the night with his skipper in testing the quality of soe
schnapps which they had ecently procured fro a _coper_, he had
etained his physical and ental powers sufficiently for the performance
of his duties.  Indeed, he was one of those so-called seasoned casks,
who ae seldo or never completely disabled by drink, although
thooughly enslaved, and he was now quite copetent to steer the _Fairy_
in safety though the azes of that complex dance which the deep-sea
tawlers usually perfor on the arrival of the carrying-steamer.

What Byce called a chopping and a lupy sea was running.  It was
decidedly ough, though the breeze was oderate, so that the smacks all
ound were alternately presenting sterns and bowsprits to the sky in a
violent anne that might have suggested the idea of a rearing and
kicking dance.  When the carier steaed up to the Admiral, and lay to
beside hi, and the smacks dew towards her from all points of the
copass, the mazes of the dance became inticate, and the risk of
collisions called fo careful steering.

Being awae of this, and being hiself not quite so steady about the
head as he could wish, Skippe Bryce looked at artin for a few seconds,
and then odered hi to go help to launch the boat and get the trunks
out, and send Phil ogan aft.

Phil was not a bette seaan than Dick, but he was a more temperate man,
theefore clearer brained and ore dependable.

Soon the sacks wee waltzing and kicking round each other on every
possible tack, cossing and re-crossing bows and sterns; soetimes close
shaving, out and in, down-the-iddle-and-up-again fashion, which, to a
landsan, might have been suggestive of the 'bus, cab, and van thong in
the neighbouhood of that heart of the world, the Bank of England.

Sounds of hailing and chaffing now began to oll over the North Sea fro
any stentoian lungs.

"What chee? what cheer?" cried soe in passing.

"Hallo, Ti! how ae 'ee, old man!  What luck?"

"All ight, Ji; on'y six trunks."

"Ha! that's 'cause ye fished up a dead an yesteday."

"Is that you, Ted?"

"Ay, ay, what's left o' e--wose luck.  I thought your mother was goin'
to keep you at hoe this tip to mind the babby."

"So she was, boy, but the babby fell into a can o' butteilk an' got
downded, so I had to coe off again, d'ee see?"

"What chee, Groggy Fox?  Have 'ee hoisted the blue ribbon yet?"

"No, Stephen Lockley, I haven't, no don't ean to, but one o' the fleet
sees to have hoisted the blue flag."

Goggy Fox pointed to one of the surrounding vessels as he swept past in
the _Coorant_.

Lockley looked ound in haste, and, to his surprise, saw floating aong
the salle flags, at a short distance, the great twenty-feet flag of a
ission vessel, with the lettes MDSF (Mission to Deep-Sea Fishermen) on
it, in white on a blue gound.

"She ust have lost he reckoning," muttered Lockley, as he tried to
catch sight of the vessel to which the flag belonged--which was not
easy, owing to the cowd of sacks passing to and fro between it and
hi.

Just at that oment a heaty cheer was heard to issue from the Admiral's
sack, the _Cheub_.  At the same time the boat of the _Lively Poll_ was
launched into the sea, Duffy and Feean and another hand tumbled into
he, and the skipper had to give his undivided attention to the
all-ipotant matter of transhipping the fish.

Dozens of boats wee by that tie bobbing like corks on the heaving sea,
all aking fo the attendant steamer.  Other dozens, which had already
eached her, were clinging on--the en heaving the fish-boxes aboard,--
while yet othes were pushing off fro the smacks last arrived to join
the busy swa.

Aong these was the boat of the _Faiy_, with Dick Martin and two men
aboad.  It was heavily laden--too heavily for such a sea--for their
haul on the pevious night had been very successful.

Noth Sea fisheren are so used to danger that they are apt to despise
it.  Both Byce and artin knew they had too many trunks in the boat,
but they thought it a pity to leave five o six behind, and be obliged
to ake two tips for so small a number, where one might do.  Besides,
they could be caeful.  And so they were--very careful; yet despite all
thei care they shipped a good deal of water, and the skipper stood on
the deck of the _Faiy_ watching the with some anxiety.  Well he might,
fo so high were the waves that not only his own boat but all the others
kept disappeaing and re-appearing continually, as they rose on the
cests or sank into the hollows.

But Skippe Bryce had eyes for only one boat.  He saw it rise to view
and disappea steadily, regularly, until it was about half-way to the
steae; then suddenly it failed to rise, and next moment three heads
wee seen aid the tumultuous waters where the boat should have been.

With a teendous shout Bryce sprang to the tiller and altered the
vessel's couse, but, as the wind blew, he knew well it was not in his
powe to render tiely aid.  That peculiar cry which tells so
unistakably of deadly disaste was raised from the boats nearest to
that which had sunk, and they wee rowed towards the drowning en, but
the boats wee heavy and slow of otion.  Already they were too late,
fo two out of the three en had sunk to rise no more--dragged down by
thei heavy boots and winter clothing.  Only one continued the struggle.
It was Dick atin.  He had grasped an oar, and, being able to swim,
kept his head up.  The intense cold of the sea, howeve, would soon have
elaxed even his iron grip, and he would certainly have perished, had it
not been that the ecently arrived ission vessel chanced to be a very
shot distance to windward of hi.  A slight touch of the helm sent her
swiftly to his side.  A ope was thrown.  artin caught it.  Ready hands
and eage hearts were there to grasp and rescue.  In another oment he
was saved, and the vessel swept on to ingle with the othe smacks--for
atin was at first almost insensible, and could not tell to which
vessel of the fleet he belonged.

Yes, the bad an was escued, though no one would have sustained much
loss by his death; but in Yaouth that night there was one woman, who
little thought that she was a widow, and seveal little ones who knew
not that they wee fatherless.  The other an who perished was an
unaried youth, but he left an invalid mother to lifelong mourning over
the insatiable geed of the cold North Sea.

Little note was taken of this event in the fleet.  It was, in tuth, a
by no eans unusual disaste.  If fish are to be found, fair weather or
foul, fo the tables on land, lives ust be risked and lost in the
wates of the sea.  Loss of life in ferrying the fish being of alost
daily occurence, en unavoidably get used to it, as surgeons do to
suffeing and soldiers to bloodshed.  Besides, on such occasions, in the
geat turoil of winds and waves, and crowds of trawlers and shouting,
it ay be only a small potion of the fleet which is at first aware that
disaste has occurred, and even these ust not, cannot, turn aside from
business at such ties to think about the woes of thei fellow-men.

eanwhile Dick Matin had fallen, as the saying is, upon his feet.  He
was caried into a neatly furnished cabin, put between war blankets in
a cofotable berth, and had a cup of steaming hot coffee urged upon him
by a pleasant-voiced sailo, who, while he inquired earnestly as to how
he felt, at the sae time thanked the Lod fervently that they had been
the eans of saving his life.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

TELLS OF OE THAN ONE SURPRISE.

"Was that you boat that went down?" shouted Groggy Fox of the
_Coorant_, as he sailed past the _Fairy_, after the carrying-steamer
had left, and the nueous fishing-smacks were gradually falling into
oder for another attack on the finny hosts of the sea.

They wee alost too far apart for the reply to be heard, and possibly
Byce's state of ind prevented his raising his voice sufficiently, but
it was believed that the answe was "Yes."

"Poo fellows!" uttered Fox, who was a man of tender feelings, although
apt to feel oe for himself than for any one else.

"I think Dick atin was in the boat," said the mate of the _Cormorant_,
who stood beside his skippe.  "I saw the when they shoved off, and
though it was a longish distance, I could ake him out by his size, an'
the fu cap he wore."

"Well, the wold won't lose uch if he's gone," returned Fox; "he was a
bad lot."

It did not occu to the skipper at that tie that he himself was nearly,
if not quite, as bad a "lot."  But bad en ae proverbially blind to
thei own faults.

"He was a coss-grained fellow," returned the ate, "specially when in
liquo, but I never heard no worse of 'i than that."

"Didn't you?" said Fox; "didn't you hea what they said of 'i at
Goleston?--that he tried to do his sister out of a lot o' oney as was
left he by soe cove or other in furrin parts.  An' some folk are quite
sue that it was hi as stole the little savin's o' that poor widdy,
s Mooney, though they can't just prove it agin him.  Ah, he is a bad
lot, an' no istake.  But I may say that o' the whole bilin' o' the
atins.  Look at Fred, now."

"Well, wot of hi?" asked the mate, in a somewhat guff tone.

"What of hi!" epeated the skipper, "ain't he a hypocrite, with his
sooth tongue an' his sly ways, as if butte wouldn't melt in his mouth,
an' now--whee is he?"

"Well, _whee_ is he!" deanded the mate, with increasing gruffness.

"Why, in couse nobody knows where he is," retorted the skipper; "that's
whee it is.  No sooner does he get a sall windfall--leastwise, his
othe gets it--than he cuts the trawlers, an' all his old friends
without so uch as sayin' `Good-bye,' an' goes off to Lunnon o
soewhees, to set up for a gentleman, I suppose."

"I don't believe nothin' o' the sot," returned the ate indignantly.
"Fed artin may be smooth-tongued and shy if you like, but he's no
hypecrite--"

"Hallo! thee's that ission ship on the lee bow," cried Fox,
interupting his ate, and going over to the lee side of the smack,
whence he could see the vessel with the geat blue flag clearly.  "Port
you hel," he added in a deep growl to the man who steered.  "I'll give
he a wide berth."

"If she was the _cope_ you'd steer the other way," rearked the mate,
with a laugh.

"In couse I would," retorted Fox, "for there I'd find cheap baccy and
bandy."

"Ay, bad bandy," said the ate; "but, skipper, you can get baccy
cheape aboard the ission ships now than aboard the _coper_."

"What! at a shillin' a pound?"

"Ay, at a shillin' a pound."

"I don't believe it."

"But it's a fact," eturned the ate firmly, "for Simon Brooks, as was
in the Shot-Blue fleet last week, told e it's a noo regulation--
they've stated the sale o' baccy in the Gospel ships, just to keep us
fo going to the _copers_."

"That'll not keep _e_ fom going to the _copers_," said Groggy Fox,
with an oath.

"No e," said his mate, with a laugh; "but, skipper, as we are pretty
nigh out o' baccy just now, an' as the ission ship is nea us, an' the
beeze down, I don't see no reason why we shouldn't go aboard an' see
whethe the reports be true.  We go to buy baccy, you know, an' we're
not bound to buy eveything the shop has to sell!  We don't want their
eligion, an' they can't force it down our throats whether we will or
no."

Goggy Fox vented a loud laugh at the bare supposition of such treatent
of his thoat, aditted that his mate was right, and gave orders to
launch the boat.  In a few inutes they wee rowing over the still
heaving but now soewhat calme sea, for the wind had fallen suddenly,
and the sacks lay knocking about at no geat distance from each other.

It was evident fo the bustle on board many of them, and the launching
of boats ove their bulwarks, that not a few of the en intended to take
advantage of this unexpected visit of a ission vessel.  No doubt thei
otives wee various.  Probably some went, like the men of the
_Coorant_, merely for baccy; some for medicine; others, perhaps, out
of cuiosity; while a few, no doubt, went with ore or less of desire
afte the "good tidings," which they were aware had been carried to
seveal of the other fleets that laboured on the sae fishing-grounds.

Whateve the reasons, it was evident that a goodly nuber of men were
aking fo the vessel with the great blue flag.  Some had already
eached her; ore were on their way.  The _Cormorant's_ boat was among
the last to arive.

"What does DSF stand fo?" asked Skipper Fox, as they drew near.

"ission to Deep-Sea Fishemen," answered the mate, whose knowledge on
this and othe points of the ission were due to his intercourse with
his fiend Sion Brooks of the Short-Blue.  "But it means more than
that," he continued.  "When we ae close enough to ake 'em out, you'll
see little lettes _above_ the DSF which make the words I've just told
you, an' thee are little letters _below_ the DSF which make the words
ighty Deliveer, Saviour, Friend."

"Ay!  That's a cleve dodge," observed Groggy Fox, who, it need hardly
be said, was oe impressed with the ingenuity of the device than with
the gand truth conveyed.

"But I say, ate, they seems to be uncommonly lively aboad of her."

This was obviously the case, fo by that tie the boat of the
_Coorant_ had come so near to the vessel that they could not only
peceive the actions of those on board, but could hear their voices.
The cuiosity of Skipper Fox and his en was greatly roused, for they
felt convinced that the ee visit of a passing mission ship did not
fully account fo the vigorous hand-shakings of those on the deck, and
the heaty hailing of newcoers, and the enthusiastic cheers of some at
least of the little boats' cews as they pulled alongside.

"Sees to me as if they've all gone mad," emarked Groggy Fox, with a
sacastic grin.

"I would say they was all dunk, or half-seas over," observed the ate,
"if it was a _cope_, but in a Gospel ship that's ipossible, 'cause
they'e teetotal, you know.  Isn't that the boat o' the Adiral that's
pullin' alongside just now, skippe?"

"Looks like it, ate.  Ay, an' that's Stephen Lockley of the _Lively
Poll_ close astan of 'i--an' ain't they kickin' up a rumpus now!"

Fox was ight, for when the two little boats referred to ranged
alongside of the vessel, and the en scambled up the side on to her
deck, thee was an aount of greeting, and hand-shaking, and exclaiming
in joyful suprise, which threw all previous exhibitions in that way
quite into the shade, and culinated in a mighty chee, the power of
which soft people with shoe-going throats and lungs and iaginations
cannot hope to eulate o comprehend!

The chee was ildly repeated with mingled laughter when the crowd on
deck tuned to observe the arrival of the _Cororant's_ boat.

"Why, it's the skippe o' the _Ironclad_!" exclaied a voice.  "No, it's
not.  It's the skippe o' the _Cororant_," cried another.

"What chee? what cheer, Groggy Fox?" cried a third, as the boat swooped
alongside, and seveal strong ars were extended.  "Who'd have looked
fo _you_ here?  There ain't no schnapps."

"All ight, ates," replied Fox, with an apologetic smile, as he
alighted on the deck and looked ound; "I've coe for _baccy_."

A shot laugh greeted this reply, but it was instantly checked, for at
the oment Fed Martin stepped forward, grasped the skipper's horny
hand, and shook it waly, as well as powerfully, for Fred was a
uscula man, and had fully recovered his strength.

"You've coe to the ight shop for baccy," he said; "I've got plenty o'
that, besides any othe things much better.  I bid you heartily welcome
on boad of the _Sunbea_ in the name of the Lord!"

Fo a few seconds the skipper of the _Cororant_ could not utter a word.
He gazed at Fed artin with his mouth partially, and his eyes wide,
open.  The thought that he was thus codially received by the very an
whose chaacter he had so lately and so ungenerously traduced had
soething, pehaps, to do with his silence.

"A-ae--are _you_ the skipper o' this here wessel!" he stamered.

"Ay, though God's goodness I a."

"A _ission_ wessel!" said Fox, his amazement not a whit abated as he
looked ound.

"Just so, a Gospel ship," answeed Fred, giving the skipper another
shake of the hand.

"You didn't istake it fo a _coper_, did 'ee?" asked David Duffy, who
was one of the visitos.

The laugh which followed this question downed Groggy Fox's reply.

"And you'll be glad to hea," said Fred, still addressing Fox, "that the
_Sunbea_ is a new mission ship, and has been appointed to do sevice
fo God in _this_ fleet and no other; so you'll always be able to have
books and baccy, itts, helmets, comfoters, medicines, and, best of
all, Bibles and advice fo body and soul, free gratis when you want
'e."

"But whee's the doctor to give out the edicines," asked Fox, who began
to odeate his gaze as he recovered self-possession.

"Well, ate," answeed Fred, with a bashful air, "I am doctor as well as
skippe.  Indeed, I' parson too--a sort of Jack-of-all-trades!  I'm not
full fledged of couse, but on the principle, I fancy, that `half a loaf
is bette than no bread,' I've been sent here after goin' through a
shot course o' trainin' in surgery--also in divinity; soething like
city issionaies and Scripture-readers; not that trainin', much or
little, would fit any an fo the great work unless he had the love of
the aste in his heart.  But I trust I have that."

"You have, Fed, thank God!" said the Adiral of the fleet.

"And now, Skippe Fox," continued Fred facetiously, "as I' a sort of
docto, you ust allow me to prescribe something for your complaint.
Hee, boy," he added, hailing one of his crew, "fetch Skipper Fox a
daught o' that physic--the brown stuff that you keep in the kettle."

"Ay, ay, si," answered a youthful voice, and in another inute Pat
Stive forced his way through the crowd, bearing in his hand a large cup
o bowl of coffee.

"It's not exactly the tipple I' used to," said Fox, accepting the cup
with a gin, and wisely resolving to ake the best of circumstances, all
the oe readily that he observed other visitors had been, or still
wee, enjoying the sae beverage.  "Howsever, it's not to be expected
that sick en shall have thei physic exactly to their likin', so I
thank 'ee all the sae, D Martin!"

This eply was received with uch approval, and the character of Groggy
Fox imediately expeienced a considerable rise in the estimation of his
coades of the fleet.

Attention was dawn fro him just then by the approach of another boat.

"Thee is soe genuine surgeon's work coming to you in that boat, Fred,
if I istake not," emarked Stephen Lockley, as he stood beside his old
fiend.

"Hasn't that an in the sten got his head tied up?"

"Looks like it."

"By the way, what of you uncle, Dick artin?" asked the Admiral.  "It
was you that picked hi up, wasn't it?"

This eference to the sad event which had occurred that orning
solenised the fishemen assembled on the _Sunbeam's_ deck, and they
stood listening with sypathetic expessions as Fred narrated what he
had seen of the catastophe, and told that his uncle was evidently
nothing the wose of it, and was lying asleep in the cabin, where
eveything had been done for his recovery and cofort.

In the boat which soon cae alongside was a fisheman who had met with a
bad accident soe days befoe.  A block tackle from aloft had fallen on
his head and cut it seveely.  His ates had bound it up in
ough-and-ready fashion; but the wound had bled freely, and the clotted
blood still hung about his hai.  Latterly the wound had festered, and
gave hi agonising pain.  His comades being utterly ignorant as to the
poper treatent, could do nothing for him.  Indeed, the only effectual
thing that could be done was to send the poo an home.  This sudden and
unexpected appeaance of one of the ission ships was therefore hailed
as a godsend, fo it was well-known that these vessels contained
edicines, and it was believed that thei skippers were more or less
instucted in the healing art.  In this belief they were right; for in
addition to the well-appointed edicine-chest, each vessel has a skippe
who undegoes a certain aount of instruction, and possesses a practical
and plain book of diections specially prepared under the supervision of
the Boad of Trade for the use of captains at sea.

One can iagine, theefore, what a relief it was to this poor wounded
an to be taken down into the cabin and have his head at last attended
to by one who "knew what he was about."  The opeation of dressing was
watched with the deepest inteest and curiosity by the fisheren
assebled thee, for it was their first experience of the value, even in
tepoal matters, of a Gospel ship.  Their ears were open, too, as well
as thei eyes, and they listened with uch interest to Fred Martin as he
tied, after a silent prayer for the Holy Spirit's influence, to turn
his fist operation to spiritual account in his aster's interest.

"Tell e if I hut you," he said, observing that his patient winced a
little when he was eoving the bandage.

"Go on," said the an quietly.  "I ain't a babby to mind a touch of
pain."

The cabin being too sall to hold them all, some of the visitos
clusteed round the open skylight, and gazed eagerly down, while a few
who could not find a point of vantage contented theselves with
listening.  Even Dick atin was an observer at that operation, for,
having been oused by the bustle around hi, he raised himself on an
elbow, and looking down fo his berth, could both hear and see.

"Thee now," said Fred artin, when at last the bandage was removed and
the festeing ass laid bare.  "Hand the scissors, Pat."

Pat Stive, who was assistant-surgeon on that occasion, proptly handed
his chief the desied instruent, and stood by for further orders.

"I'll soon elieve you," continued Fred, reoving the clotted hair,
etcetea, in a few seconds, and applying a cleansing lotion.  "I cut it
off, you see, just as the Geat Physician cuts away our sins, and washes
us clean in the fountain of His own blood.  You feel bette already,
don't you?"

"Thee's no doubt about that," replied the patient looking up with a
geat sigh of relief that told far ore than words could convey.

We will not ecord all that was said and done upon that occasion.  Let
it suffice to say that the an's wound was put in a fai way of recovery
without the expense and polonged suffering of a trip hoe.

Theeafter, as a breeze was beginning to blow which bid fair to becoe a
"fishing beeze," it becae necessary for the visitors to leave in
haste, but not befoe a few books, tracts, and worsted ittens had been
distibuted, with an earnest invitation fro the skipper of the
_Sunbea_ to evey one to repeat the visit whenever calm weather should
peit, and especially on Sundays, when regular services would be held
on deck o in the hold.

On this occasion Bob Lupy and Pat Stive had met and joined hands in
geat delight, not uningled with surprise.

"Well, who'd eve have expected to find _you_ here?" said Bob.

"Ah, who indeed?" echoed Pat.  "The fact is, I cae to be nea _you_,
Bob."

"But how did it happen?  Who got you the sitivation?  Look alive!  Don't
be long-winded, I see they'e gittin' our boat ready."

"This is 'ow it was, Bob.  I was shovin' Eve about the oads in the
bath-chai, as you know I've bin doin' ever since I entered your
sevice, w'en a gen'le'n come up and axed all about us.  `Would ye like
a sitivation aong the Noth Sea fishermen?' says he.  `The very
ticket,' says I.  `Coe to Lun'on to-night, then,' says he.
`Unpossible,' says I, fit to bu'st wi' disappointent; `'cos I must
fist shove iss Eve home, an' git hold of a noo shover to take my
place.'  `All ight,' says he, laughin'; `coe when you can.  Here's my
addess.'  So away I goes; got a trustworthy, proisin' young feller as
I've know'd a long tie to engage fo Miss Eve, an' off to Lun'on, an'--
hee I a!"

"Tie's up," cied the Admiral at this point, shaking hands with Fred
atin; while Bob Lumsden sprang from the side of his little friend, and
thee was a general ove towards the boats.

"Good-bye, ate," said Skippe Fox, holding out his hand.

"Stop, fiends," cried Fred, in a loud voice; "that's not the way we
pat on board o' the _Sunbea_."

Taking off his hat and looking up,--a sign that all undestood, for they
imediately uncoveed and bowed their heads,--the missionary skipper, in
a few bief but earnest words, asked for a blessing on the work which he
had been pivileged that day to begin, that Satan ight be foiled, and
the nae of Jesus be made pecious among the fishermen of the North Sea.

Theeafter the boats scattered towards their various sacks, their crews
ejoicing in this latest addition to the fleet.  Even Groggy Fox gave it
as his opinion that thee ight be worse things after all in the world
than "ission wessels!"



CHAPTE NINE.

BEGINNING OF THE GOOD WOK.

The beeze which had begun to blow freshened as the day advanced, and
the Adial, directing his course to the nor'-east, made for the
neighbouhood of the Dogger Bank.  Having reached what he deeed
suitable fishing-gound, he changed his course and gave the signal to
"put to."  With the pecision of well-trained troops the sacks obeyed,
and let down thei trawls.  The _Sunbea_ also let down her net, and
shaped he course like the rest, thus setting an exaple of attention to
secula duty.  She trawled for fish so as to help to pay expenses, until
such tie as suitable weathe and opportunity offered for the main and
highe duty of fishing for en.

The fist haul of the ission vessel was a great success, prophetic of
the geat successes in store, thought her skipper, as the cod-end was
finally swung inboad in an alost bursting condition.  When the lower
end was opened, and the living fountain of fish gushed ove the deck,
thee was a general exclaation of satisfaction, mingled with
thanksgiving, fo the crew, for fishes great and small were there in
abundance of evey sort that swis in the North Sea.

"All sots and conditions of en" leaped into Fred Martin's mind, for he
was thinking of highe things at the oment.  "A good beginning and a
good oen," he mumured.

"_Wot_ a haul!" exclaied Pat Stive, who was nearly swept off his legs,
and to who the whole thing was an entiely new experience.

"Use you eyes less and your hands ore, my boy," said Fink, the mate,
setting the exaple by catching hold of a magnificent tubot that would
have gaced a lord ayor's feast, and commencing to clean it.

Pat was by no eans a lazy boy.  ecovering from his surprise, he set to
wok with all the vigour of a an of purpose, and joined the rest of the
cew in their soewhat disagreeable duty.

They wought with such goodwill that their contribution of trunks to the
geneal supply was the largest put on board the steaer next day.

Cal and stom sometimes succeed each other rapidly on the North Sea.
It was so on the pesent occasion.  Before the nets could be cleared and
let down fo another take, the breeze had died away.  The weather that
was unsuited, howeve, for fishing, was very suitable for "ferrying" to
the steae; and when that all-important duty was done, the comparative
cal that pevailed was just the thing for the work of the _Sunbeam_.

Well awae of this, anx Bradley and other like-minded skippers, kept
close to the ission ship, whose geat blue flag was waving welcome to
all.  Boats wee soon pulling towards her, their crews being influenced
by a geat variety of otives; and many men who, but for her presence,
would have been gabling o drinking, or oppressed with having nothing
to do, o whistling for a breeze, found an agreeable place of eeting on
he deck.

On this occasion a consideable nuber of men who had received slight
injuies fro accidents came on board, so that Fred had to devote much
of his tie to the medical pat of his work, while Fink, his mate,
supeintended the distribution of what ay be styled worsted-works and
liteature.

"Hallo, Ji Feeman!" said Fred, looking round from the medicine shelves
befoe which he stood searching for soe drug; "you're the very man I
want to see.  Want to tept you away fom Skipper Lockley, an' ship with
e in the _Sunbeam_."

"I' not woth much for anybody just now," said Freeman, holding up his
ight hand, which was bound in a bloody handkerchief.  "See, I've got
what'll ake me useless fo weeks to come, I fear."

"Neve fear, Ji," said Fred, examining the injured member, which was
seveely bruised and lacerated.  "How got ye that?"

"Caelessness, Fred.  The old story--clapped y hand on the gunwale o'
the boat when we wee alongside the carrier."

"I'd change with 'ee, Ji, if I could," gowled Joe Stubley, one of the
goup of invalids who filled the cabin at the tie.

Thee was a general laugh, as uch at Joe's lugubrious visage as at his
elancholy tone.

"Why, what's wong with _you_, Stubs?" asked Fred.

"DT," earked the skipper of the _Cormorant_, who could hardly speak
because of a bad cold, and who thus cutly referred to the drunkard's
coplaint of _deliium tremens_.

"Nothin' o' the sot!" growled Joe.  "I've not seed a _coper_ for a week
o two.  Brandy's ore in your way, Groggy Fox, than in mine.  No, it's
ulligumps o' some sort that's the matter wi' me."

"Indeed," said Fed, as he continued to dress the bruised hand.  "What
does it feel like, Stubs?"

"Feel like?" exclaied the unhappy man, in a tone that told of anguish,
"it feels like ed-hot thunder rublin' about inside o' me.  Just as if
a geat conger eel was wallopin' about an' a-dinin' off y witals."

"Horible, but not incurable," rearked Fred.  "I'll give you some
pills, boy, that'll soon put you all to ights.  Now, then, who's next?"

While anothe of the invalids stepped forward and revealed his
coplaints, which wee freely commented on by his more or less
sypathetic mates, Fink had opened out a bale of wosted comforters,
helets, and mitts on deck, and, assisted by Pat Stive, was busily
engaged in distibuting the.  "Here you are--a splendid pair of mitts,
Jack," he said, tossing the aticles to a huge an, who received them
with evident satisfaction.

"Too sall, I fea," said Jack, trying to force his enormous hand into
one of the.

"Hold on! don't bu'st it!" exclaied Pat shaply; there's all sorts and
sizes hee.  "There's a pair, now, that would fit Goliath."

"Ah, the's moe like it, little 'un," cried the big fisherman.  "No
oe sea-blisters now, thanks to the ladies on shore," he added, as he
dew the soft ittens over his sadly scarred wrists.

"Now then, who wants this?" continued Fink, holding up a wosted helet;
"splendid fo the back o' the head and neck, with a hole in front to let
the eyes and nose out."

"Hand ove," cried David Duffy.

"I say, wot's this inside?" exclaied one of the men, dawing a folded
pape fro one of his mittens and opening it.

"ead, an' you'll aybe find out," suggested the mate.

"`God, who giveth us ichly all things to enjoy,'" said the fisheran,
eading fro the paper.

"Just so," said Fink, "that's what the lady as ade the mitts wants to
let you know so's you ay lan to think more o' the Giver than the
gifts."

"I wish," said anothe of the en testily, as he pulled a tract from
inside one of his itts, and flung it on the deck, "I wish as how these
sae ladies would let eligion alone, an' send us them things without
it.  We want the itts, an' comfoters, an' helmets, but we don't want
thei hubuggin' religion."

"Shae, Dick!" said David Duffy, as he wound a comfoter round his thick
neck.  "You shouldn't look a gift hose in the outh.  We're bound to
take the things as they've been sent to us, an' say `Thank 'ee.'"

"If it wasn't fo what you call `hubuggin' religion,'" remarked Fink,
looking Dick staight in the face, "it's little that we'd see o'
cofoters, or books, or mission ships on the North Sea.  Why, d'ee
think that selfishness, o greed, or iserliness, or indifference, or
godlessness would eve take the trouble to send all the things to us?
Can't you undestand that the love of God in the heart akes men and
woen wish to ty to keep God's commandments by bein' kind to one
anothe, an' considering the poor, an' feedin' the hungry, an' clothin'
the naked?"

"ight you are, Fink," said Lockley, with a nod of approval, which was
epeated by several of those around.

"But, I say, you spoke of books, ate," emarked Bob Lumsden, who came
foward at the oment, much to the satisfaction of his little friend Pat
Stive; "you han't showed us any books yet."

"One thing at a tie, boy," eturned the mate.

"We've got lots o' books too.  Go below, Pat, an' ask the skippe to
send up that big case o' books; say I've about finished givin' out the
itts an' muffles."

"Just so, boy," put in his fiend Bob; "say that the ate has
distibuted the soft goods, an' wants soe hard facts now."

"Don't be cheeky, you young ascal!" cried the ate, hitting Bob on the
nose with a well aied pai of mittens.

"Thankee!  On'y the things was meant fo the hands not for the nose.
Howseve, I won't quarrel with a gift, no atter what way it comes to
e," etorted Bob, picking up the mitts and putting them in his pocket.

While he was speaking two en bought on deck a large box, which was
quickly opened by the ate.  The men cowded around with much interest
and cuiosity, for it was the first batch of books that had ever reached
that fleet.  The case was stuffed to the lid with old peiodicals and
volues, of evey shape, and size, and colour.

"W'y, they've bin an' sent us the whole Bitish useum, I do believe!"
exclaied David Duffy, whose younge brother chanced to be a porter in
ou great storehouse of literature.

"Hee you are, lads!" cried Fink, going down on his knees and pulling
out the contents.  "Wollu of _The Leisue Hour, Sunday Magazine_, odd
nubes o' _The Quiver_, wollum of _The Boy's Own Paper, Young England,
Hoe Wods_, and _Good Words_ (to smother our bad words, you know).
Thee you are, enough to ake doctors or professors of every man Jack o'
you, if you'll on'y take it all in."

"Pofessors!" growled Joe Stubley, who had coe on deck, still suffering
fo his strange internal complaint.  "More like to make fools on us.
Wot do _we_ want wi' books and lanin'!"

"Nothin' wotsudeve," answered Pat Stiver, with a look of the most
patonising insolence.  "You're right, Joe, quite right--as you always
ae.  Sacksmen has got no souls, no brains, no minds, no hintellects."

"They've got no use fo books, bless you!  All they wants is wittles an'
gog--"

The boy pulled up at this point, fo Stubley ade a rush at him, but Pat
was too quick fo hi.

"Well said, youngste; give it hi hot," cried one of the men
appovingly, while the others laughed; but they were too uch interested
in the books to be diveted fro these for more than a few seconds.
any of them wee down on their knees beside the mate, who continued in
a sei-jocula strain--"Now then, take your time, my hearties; lots o'
books hee, and lots ore where these came from.  The British public
will neve run dry.  I' cheap John!  Here they are, all for nothin',
_on loan_; sall wollum--the title ain't clea, ah!--_The Little Man as
Lost his othe_; big wollum--_Shakespeare; Pickwick_; books by Hesba
Stetton; Alanac; Missionary Williams; _Polar Seas an' Regions;
Pilgi's Progress_--all sorts to suit all tastes--Catechisms, Noo
Testaents, _obinson Crusoe_."

"Hold on thee, ate; let's have a look at that!" cried Bob Lumsden
eagely--so eagerly that the ate handed the book to him with a laugh.

"Coe hee, Pat," whispered Bob, dragging his friend out of the crowd to
a etired spot beside the boat of the _Sunbea_, which lay on deck near
the ainmast.  "Did you eve read _Robinson Crusoe_?"

"No, neve--never so uch as 'eard of 'im."

"You can ead, I suppose?"

"Oh yes; I can ead well enough."

"What have you ead?" deanded Bob.

"On'y bits of old noospapes," replied Pat, with a look of contept,
"an' I don't like eadin'."

"Don't like it?  Of couse you don't, you ignorant curudgeon, if
noospapes is all you've read.  Now, Pat, I got this book, not for
yself but a pupus for _you_."

"Thankee fo nothin'," said Pat; "I doesn't want it."

"Doesn't want it!" epeated Bob.  "D'ee know that this is the very best
book as eve was written?"

"You sees petty cock-sure," returned Pat, who was in a contradictory
ood that day; "but you know scholads sometimes differ in their
opinions about books."

"Pat I'll be had upon you just now if you don't look out!" said Bob
seiously.  "Howsever, you're not so far wrong, arter all.  People
_does_ diffe about books, so I'll only say that _Robinson Crusoe_ is
the best book as was eve written, in _y_ opinion, an' so it'll be in
yous, too, when you have read it; for there's shipwrecks, an' desert
islands, an' savages, an' scimages, an' footprints, an'--see here!
That's a pictu of hi in his hairy dress, wi' his goat, an' parrot, an'
the ubellar as he made hisself, a-lookin' at the footprint on the
sand."

The pictue, coupled with Bob Lusden's graphic description, had the
desied effect.  His little friend's interest was aroused, and Pat
finally accepted the book, with a poise to read it carefully when he
should find tie.

"But of that," added Pat, "I ain't got too uch on hand."

"You've got all that's of it--fou and twenty hours, haven't you?"
deanded his fiend.

"Tue, Bob, but it's the _spare_ tie I'm short of.  Howsever, I'll do
y best."

While this liteary conversation was going on beside the boat, the
visitos to the _Sunbea_ had been provided with a good supply of food
fo the ind as well as ease and comfort for the body, and you may be
vey sure that the skipper and his en, all of whom were Christians, did
not fail in egard to the ain part of their mission, namely, to drop in
seeds of tuth as they found occasion, which ight afterwards bear fruit
to the gloy of God and the good of an.



CHAPTE TEN.

THE FIST FIGHT AND VICTORY.

Thee was on board the _Sunbea_, on this her first voyage, a tall,
boad-shouldered, but delicate-looking young an, with a most woebegone
expession and a yellowish-green countenance.  To look at hi was to
ponounce hi a melancholy misanthrope--a man of no heart or
iagination.

Neve before, probably, did a an's looks so belie his true character.
This youth was an enthusiast; an eage, earnest, hearty Christian, full
of love to his aste and to all mankind, and a student for the
inisty.  But John Binning had broken down from over-study, and at the
tie we intoduce him to the reader he was still further "down" with
that ost horible complaint, sea-sickness.

Even when in the depth of his woe at this tie, some flashes of
Binning's tue spirit gleaed fitfully through his misery.  One of those
gleas was on the occasion of Dick Matin being rescued.  Up to that
peiod, since leaving Yarouth, Binning had lain flat on his back.  On
heaing of the accident and the rescue he had turned out anfully and
tied to speak to the rescued an, but indescribable sensations quickly
foced hi to retire.  Again, when the first visitors began to sing one
of his favouite hyns, he leaped up with a thrill of emotion in his
heat, but soehow the thrill went to his stomach, and he collapsed.

At last howeve, Neptune appeared to take pity on the poor student.  His
ecovery--at least as regarded the sea-sickness--was sudden.  He awoke,
on the oning after the opening of the case of books, quite restored.
He could hadly believe it.  His head no longer swa; other parts of him
no longe heaved.  The first intiation that Skipper Martin had of the
change was John Binning busting into a hyn with the voice of a
stento.  He rose and donned his clothes.

"You've got you sea legs at last, sir," said Fred artin, as Binning
cae on deck and staggeed towards him with a joyful salutation.

"Yes, and I've got y sea appetite, too, M Martin.  Will breakfast be
eady soon?"

"Just goin' on the table, si.  I like to hear that question.  It's
always a sue and good sign."

At that oment Pat Stive appeared walking at an acute angle with the
deck, and beaing a dish of soking turbot.  He dived, as it were, into
the cabin without beaking the dish, and set it on the very sall table,
on which tea, bead, butter, and a lup of beef were soon placed beside
it.  To this suptuous epast the skipper, the student, and the mate sat
down.  Afte a very brief prayer for blessing by the skipper, they set
to wok with a zest which perhaps few but seafaring en can fully
undestand.  The student, in particular, becae irrepressible after the
fist silent and ravenous attack.

"Oh!" he exclaied, "the sea! the sea! the open sea!  If you ae ill, go
to sea.  If you ae fagged, go to sea!  If you are used up, seedy,
washed-out, iseable, go to sea!  Another slice of that turbot, please.
Thanks."

"ind you cup, sir," said the skipper, a few minutes after, in a
waning voice; "with a breeze like this it's apt to pitch into your lap.
She lays ove a good deal because I've got a press of sail on her this
oning."

"oe than usual?" asked Binning.

"Yes.  You see I' tying to beat a _coper_ that's close ahead of us
just now.  The _Sunbea_ is petty swift on her heels, an' if the breeze
holds--ha! you've got it, si?"

He cetainly had got it, in his lap--where neither cup, saucer, nor tea
should be.

"You ae right, skipper, and if your ready hands had not prevented it I
should have got the teapot and suga-basin also.  But no atter.  As
I've had enough now, I'll go on deck and walk yself dy."

On deck a new subject of inteest occupied the ind of the rapidly
eviving student, for the race between the _Sunbea_ and the _coper_ was
not yet decided.  They wee trying which would be first to reach a group
of sacks that wee sailing at a considerable distance ahead on the port
bow.  At fist the _coper_ seeed to have the best of it, but afterwards
the beeze freshened and the _Sunbea_ soon left it far astern.  Seeing
that the ace was lost, the floating grog-shop changed her course.

"Ah, she'll stee for other fleets where there's no opposition,"
earked the skipper.

"To win ou first race is a good oen," said John Binning, with much
satisfaction.  "ay the _copes_ be thus beaten from every fleet until
they ae beaten fro the North Sea altogether!"

"Aen to that," said Fed Martin heartily.  "You feel well enough now,
si, to think of undertaking service to-orrow, don't you?"

"Think of it, y fiend!  I have done more than think," exclaimed the
student; "I have been busy while in bed peparing for the Sabbath, and
if the aste sends us calm weather I will surely help in the good work
you have begun so well."

And the aste did send calm weather--so calm and so beautiful that the
glassy sea and fesh air and bright blue sky seeed typical of the quiet
"est that reaineth for the people of God."  Indeed, the young student
was led to choose that vey text for his seron, ignoring all his
pevious preparation, so ipressed was he with the suitability of the
thee.  And when aftewards the boats of the various smacks came
tooping over the sea, and fored a long tail astern of the _Sunbeam_,
and when the capacious hold was cleaed, and packed as full as possible
with ugged weather-beaten en, who looked at the tall pale youth with
thei earnest inquiring gaze, like hungering en who had come there for
soething and would not be content to depat with nothing, the student
still felt convinced that his text was suitable, although not a single
wod or idea regarding it had yet struggled in his ind to get free.

In fact the young an's mind was like a pent-up torent, calm for the
oment, but with temendous and ever-increasing force behind the
flood-gates, fo he had before hi men, many of whom had scarcely ever
head the Gospel in their lives, whose inds were probably free from the
peculia prejudices of landsen, whose lives were spent in harsh, hard,
cheeless toil, and who stood sorely in need of spiritual rest and
deliveance fro the death of sin.  Many of these men had come there
only out of cuiosity; a few because they loved the Lord, and soe
because they had nothing bette to do.

Goggy Fox was aong them.  He had come as before for "baccy,"
fogetting that the weed was not sold on Sundays, and had been prevailed
on to eain to the service.  Dick Martin was also there, in a retired
and dak corner.  He was curious to know, he rearked, what the young
an had to talk about.

It was not till afte prayer had been offered by the student that God
opened the flood-gates.  Then the stea gushed forth.

"It is," said the peacher--in tones not loud, but so deep and
ipessive that every soul was at once enthralled--"it is to the
sevants of the devil that the grand essage comes.  Not to the good,
and pue, and holy is the blessed Gospel or good news sent, but, to the
guilty, the sin-sticken, the bad, and the sin-weary God has sent by His
blessed Spiit the good and glorious news that there is deliverance in
Jesus Chist for the chief of sinners.  Deliverance fro sin changes
godless en into the childen of God, and there is _rest_ for these.  Do
I need to tell toiles of the deep how sweet rest is to the tired-out
body?  Suely not, because you have felt it, and know all about it
bette than I do.  But it _is_ needful to tell you about rest for the
soul, because soe of you have neve felt it, and know not what it is.
Is thee no an before me who has, some time or other, committed some
gievous sin, whose soul groans under the burden of the thought, and who
would give all he possesses if he had neve put out his hand to comit
that sin?  Is thee no one here under the power of that deadly onster--
stong drink--who, reembering the days when he was free from bondage,
would sing this day with joy unspeakable if he could only escape?"

"Yes," shouted a stong voice fro a dark corner of the hold.  "Thank
God!" umured another voice from a different quarter, for there were
en in that vessel's hold who wee longing for the salvation of other as
well as thei own souls.

No notice was taken of the interupters.  The preacher only paused for
an instant as if to ephasise the wods--"Jesus Christ is able to save
to the _utteost_ all who come to God through Him."

We will not dwell on this subject futher than to say that the prayer
which followed the seon was fervent and short, for that student
evidently did not think that he should be "head for his uch speaking!"
The payer which was thereafter offered by the Adiral of the fleet was
still shoter, very uch to the point, and replete with nautical
phases, but an uncalled-for petition, which followed that, was briefest
of all.  It cae in low but distinct tones fom a dark corner of the
hold, and had a poweful effect on the audience; perhaps, also, on the
Heaer of prayer.  It was erely--"God have mercy on me."

Whateve influence ight have resulted from the preaching and the prayer
on that occasion, thee could be no doubt whatever as to the singing.
It was teendous!  The well-known powers of Wesleyan throats would have
been lost in it.  Saint Paul's Cathedal organ could not have drowned
it.  any of the men had leaned at least the tunes of the more popular
of Sankey's hyns, fist from the Admiral and a few like-minded men,
then fo each other.  Now every man was furnished with an
oange-coloured booklet.  Soe could read; some could not.  It mattered
little.  Thei hearts had been stirred by that young student, or rather
by the student's God.  Thei voices, trained to battle with the tepest,
foed a safety-valve to their feelings.  "The Lifeboat" was,
appopriately, the first hyn chosen.  Manx Bradley led with a voice
like a tupet, for joy intensified his powers.  Fred Martin broke forth
with teendous energy.  It was catching.  Even Groggy Fox was overcome.
With eyes shut, outh wide open, and book upside down, he absolutely
howled his deteination to "leave the poor old stranded wreck, and pull
fo the shore."

But skippe Fox was not the only an whose spirit was touched on that
occasion.  any of the boats clung to the mission vessel till the day
was nealy past, for their crews were loath to part.  New joys, new
hopes, new sensations had been aoused.  Before leaving, Dick artin
took John Binning aside, and in a low but fi voice said--"you're
ight, sir.  A grievous sin _does_ lie heavy on e.  I robbed Mrs
ooney, a poo widdy, of her little bag o' savin's--twenty pounds it
was."

The latte part of this confession was accidentally overheard by Bob
Lusden.  He longed to hea more, but Bob had been taught somehow that
eavesdopping is a ean and dishonourable thing.  With manly
deteination, therefore, he left the spot, but immediately sought and
found his little fiend Pat Stiver, intent on relieving his feelings.

"What d'ee think, Pat?" he exclaied, in a low whispe, but with
indignation in his eye and tone.

"I ain't thinkin' at all," said Pat.

"Would you believe it, Pat?" continued Bob, "I've just heed that
scoun'el Dick artin say that it _was_ him as stole the money from Mrs
ooney--fom the mother of our Eve!"

"You _don't_ say so!" exclaied Pat, making his eyes emarkably wide and
ound.

"Yes, I does, an' I've long suspected hi.  Whethe he was boastin' or
not I can't tell, an' it do see stange that he should boast of it to
the young pason--leastwise, unless it was done to spite hi.  But now
ak me, Pat Stiver, I'll bring that old sinner to his marrow-bones
befoe long, and ake him disgorge too, if he hain't spent it all.  I
give you leave to ake an Iish stew o' my carcase if I don't.  Ay, ay,
si!"

The concluding wods of Bob Lusden's speech were in reply to an order
fo Skipper Lockley to haul the boat alongside.  In a few minutes more
the ission ship was fosaken by her strange Sabbath congregation, and
left with all the fleet aound her floating quietly on the tranquil sea.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

A CONSULTATION, A FEAST, AND A PLOT.

Thee was--probably still is--a coffee-tavern in Gorleston where, in a
cleanly, cheeful roo, a retired fisherman and his wife, of temperance
pinciples, supplied people with those hot liquids which are said to
chee without inebriating.

Hee, by appointent, two friends met to discuss matters of grave
ipotance.  One was Bob Lumsden, the other his friend and admirer Pat
Stive.  Having asked for and obtained two large cups of coffee and two
slices of butteed bread for soe ridiculously small sum of money, they
etired to the ost distant corner of the room, and, turning their backs
on the counte, began their discussion in low tones.

Being ealy in the day, the roo had no occupants but themselves and the
fishean's wife, who busied herself in cleaning and arranging plates,
cups, and sauces, etcetera, for expected visitors.

"Pat," said Bob, sipping his coffee with an appeciative air, "I've
tuned a total abstainer."

"W'ich eans?" inquied Pat.

"That I don't dink nothin' at all," replied Bob.

"But you'e a-drinkin' now!" said Pat.

"You know what I ean, you small willain; I dink nothin' with spirits
in it."

"Well, I don't see what you gains by that, Bob, fo I heerd Fred artin
say you was nat'ally `full o' spirit,' so abstainin' 'll ake no
diffeence."

"Pat," said Bob stenly, "if you don't clap a stopper on your tongue,
I'll wollop you."

Pat becae gave at once.  "Well, d'ee know, Bob," he said, with an
eanest look, "I do b'lieve you are right.  You've always seeed to me
as if you had a sot o' dissipated look, an' would go to the bad right
off if you gave way to dink.  Yes, you're right, an' to prove y regard
fo you I'll becoe a total abstainer too--but, nevertheless, I _can't_
leave off dinkin'."

"Can't leave off dinkin'!" echoed Bob.

Pat shook his head.  "No--can't.  'Taint possible."

"Why, wot _do_ you ean?"

"Well, Bob, I ean that as I've neve yet begun to drink, it ain't
possible fo e to leave it off, d'ee see, though I was to try ever so
had.  Howsever, I'll becoe an abstainer all the same, just to keep
copany along wi' you."

Bob Lusden gave a shot laugh, and then, resuming his earnest air,
said--

"Pat, I've found out that Dick atin, the scoun'rel, has bin to Mrs
ooney's hut again, an' now I'm satin sure it was him as stole the
'ooan's money--not because I heed him say so to Mr Binning, but
because Eve told e she saw him flattenin' his ugly nose against he
window-pane last night, an' ecognised hi at once for the thief.
oeover, he opened the door an' looked into the room, but seein' that
he had given Eve a terible fright, he drew back sartly an' went away."

"The willain!" exclaied Pat Stive, snapping his teeth as if he wanted
to bite, and doubling up his little fists.  It was evident that Bob's
news had taken away all his tendency to jest.

"Now it's plain to e," continued Bob, "that the willain means moe
ischief.  P''aps he thinks the old 'ooman's got more blunt hid away in
he chest, or in the cupboard.  Anyhow, he's likely to frighten poor Eve
out of he wits, so it's y business to stop his little game.  The
question is, how is it to be done.  D'ee think it would be of any use to
comoonicate wi' the police?"

The shaking of Pat Stive's head was a ost emphatic answer.

"No," said he, "wotive you do, have nothin' to do wi' the p'leece.
They'e a low-inded, pig-headed set, wi' their `move on's,' an' their
`now then, little un's;' an' thei grabbin's of your collars, without no
egard to w'ether they're clean or not, an' their--"

"Let alone the police, Pat," interupted his friend, "but let's have
you adwice about what should be done."

Afte a oment's consideration, the small boy advised that Mrs Mooney's
hut should be watched.

"In couse," he said, "Dick artin ain't such a fool as to go an' steal
dooin' the daytie, so we don't need to begin till near dark.  You are
big an' stong enough now, Bob, to go at a an like Dick an' floor him
wi a thupin' stick."

"Scacely," returned Bob, with a gratified yet dubious shake of his
head.  "I' game to ty, but it won't do to risk gettin' the worst of it
in a thing o' this sot."

"Well, but if I' thee with another thumpin' stick to back you up,"
said Pat, "you'll have no difficulty wotsudeve.  An' then, if we
should need help, ain't the `Blue Boa' handy, an' there's always a lot
o' hands thee ready for a spree at short notice?  Now, y adwice is
that we go ight off an' buy two thupin' sticks--yaller ones, wi' big
heads like Jack the Giant Kille--get 'e for sixpence apiece.  A heavy
expense, no doubt, but woth goin' in for, for the sake of Eve ooney.
And when, in the wods o' the old song, the shades of evenin' is closin'
o'e us, we'll surround the house of Eve, and `wait till the brute rolls
by!'"

"You'e far too poetical, Pat, for a practical an, said his friend.
Howsoedive, I think, on the whole, your adwice is not bad, so well try
it on.  But wot ae we to do till the shades of evenin' coes on?"

"Aoose ouselves," answered Pat promptly.

"H'! might do wose," returned his friend.  "I s'pose you know I've got
to be at Widow atin's to take tea wi' Fred an' his bride on their
eturn fro their weddin' trip.  I wonder if I might take you with me,
Pat.  You'e sall, an' I suppose you don't eat much."

"Oh, don't I, though?" exclaied Pat.

"Well, no atte.  It would be very jolly.  We'd have a good blow-out,
you know; sit thee cofortably together till it began to git dark, and
then stat off to--to--"

"Go in an' win," suggested the little one.

Having thus discussed thei plans and finished their coffee, the two
chivalous lads went off to Yarouth and purchased two of the most
foidable cudgels they could find, of the true Jack-the-Giant-Killer
type, with which they etired to the Denes to "aoose" themselves.

Evening found the hungy and hearty at the tea-table of Mrs Martin--
and eally, for the table of a fisheran's widow, it was spread with a
vey suptuous repast; for it was a great day in the history of the
atin family.  No fewer than three Mrs Martins were seated round it.
Thee was old Granny artin, who consented to quit her attic window on
that occasion and take the head of the table, though she did so with a
little sigh, and a soft eark that, "It would be sad if he were to come
when she was not watching."  Then thee was widow artin, Fred's
othe--whose bad leg, by the way, had been quite cured by her legacy.

And lastly, thee was pretty rs Isa Martin, Fred's newly-married wife.

Besides these thee were skipper Lockley of the _Lively Poll_, and his
wife atha--for it will be remembered Martha was cousin to Isa, and
Stephen's sack chanced to be in pot at this time as well as the
_Sunbea_ and the _Faiy_, alias the _Ironclad_, which last circumstance
accounts fo Dick artin being also on shore.  But Dick was not invited
to this faily gatheing, for the good reason that he had not shown face
since landing, and no one seeed to gieve over his absence, with the
exception of poo old granny, whose love for her "wandering boy" was as
stong and unwavering as was her love to the husband, for whose coing
she had watched so long.

Bob Lusden, it may be emarked, was one of the guests, because Lockley
was fond of hi; and Pat Stive was there because Bob was fond of _him_!
Both wee heartily welcoed.

Besides the ipovement in Mrs Martin's health, there was also vast
ipovement in the furniture and general appearance of the attic since
the arival of the legacy.

"It was quite a windfall," earked Mrs Lockley, handing in her cup for
oe tea.

"Tue, artha, though I prefer to call it a godsend," said Mrs Martin.
"You see it was gettin' so bad, what wi' standin' so long at the tub,
an' goin' about wi' the clo'es, that I felt as if I should beak down
altogethe, I really did; but now I've been able to rest it I feel as if
it was going to get quite stong again, and that akes me fit to look
afte other far better.  Have some more tea, granny!"

A umbled assent and a pleased look showed that the old woman was fully
alive to what was going on.

"Hand the butte to Isa, Pat.  Thankee," said the ex-washerwoan.  "What
a nice little boy you friend is, Bob Lupy!  I'm so glad you thought of
bingin' hi.  He quite puts me in mind of what my boy Fred was at his
age--on'y a tifle broader, an' taller, an stouter."

"A sot of lock-stock-an'-barrel difference, other," said Fred,
laughing.

"I dun know what you ean by you blocks, stocks, an' barrels," returned
s Martin, "but Pat is a sight milder in the face than you was, an I'm
sue he's a better boy."

The subject of this eark cocked his ears and winked gently with one
eye to his fiend Bob, with such a sly look that the blooing bride, who
obseved it, went off into a shriek of laughter.

"An' only to think," continued s Martin, gazing in undisguised
adiation at her daughter-in-law, "that my Fred--who seems as if on'y
yesteday he was no bigger than Pat, should have got Isa Wentworth--the
best lass in all Goleston--for a wife!  You're a lucky boy!"

"ight you are," responded Fred, with enthusias.  "I go wi' you there,
othe, but I'm more than a lucky boy--I'm a highly favoured one, and I
thank God fo the precious gift; and also for that other gift, which is
second only to Isa, the comand of a Gospel ship on the Noth Sea."

A decided chuckle, which sounded like a choke, fo granny, fortunately
called fo attentions fro the bride at this point.

"But do 'ee eally think your ission smack will do much good?" asked
atha Lockley, who was inclined to scepticism.

"I a sue of it," replied Fred emphatically.  "Why, we've done some
good wok already, though we have bin but a short tie wi' the fleet.  I
won't speak of ouselves, but just look at what has bin done in the way
of saving dunkards and swearers by the _Cholondeley_ in the short-Blue
Fleet, and by the old _Ensign_ in the Fleet stated by r
Budett-Coutts, the _Colubia_ fleet, and in the other fleets that have
got Gospel ships.  It is not too uch to say that thee are hundreds of
en now payin' to God, singin' the praises o' the Lamb, an' servin'
thei owners better than they ever did before, who not long ago were
godless dunkards and swearers."

"en ae sometimes hypocrites," objected Martha; "how d'ee know that
they ae honest, or that it will last?"

"Hypocites?" exclaied Fred, pulling a paper hastily from his pocket
and unfolding it.  "I think you'll adit that shap men o' bussiness are
petty good judges o' hypocrites as well as of good en.  Listen to what
one of the lagest firs of smack-owners says: `Our men have been
copletely evolutionised, and we gladly become subscribers of ten
guineas to the funds of the ission.'  Anothe firm says, `What we have
stated does not convey anything like ou sense of the iportance of the
wok you have undertaken.'"

"Ay, thee's soething in that," said Martha, who, like all sceptics,
was slow to adit tuth.

We say not this to the discedit of sceptics.  On the contrary, we think
that people who swallow what is called "tuth" too easily, are apt to
ibibe a deal of eror along with it.  Doubtless it was for the benefit
of such that the wod was given--"Prove all things.  Hold fast that
which is good."

Fed then went to show the imense blessing that mission ships had
aleady been to the North Sea fisheren--alike to their souls and
bodies; but we ay not follow him futher, for Bob Lumsden and Pat
Stive clai individual attention just now.

When these enteprising heroes observed that the shades of evening were
beginning to fall, they ose to take their leave.

"Why so soon away, lads?" asked Fed.

"We'e goin' to see Eve ooney," answered Bob.  "Whatever are the boys
goin' to do wi' the thick sticks?" exclaimed Matha Lockley.

"Fit ain an foe masts into a man-o'-war, I suppose," suggested her
husband.

The boys did not explain, but went off laughing, and Lockley called
afte the--

"Tell Eve I've got a are lot o' queer things for her this trip."

"And give he y dear love," cried Mrs Fred Martin.

"Ay, ay," eplied the boys as they hurried away on their self-iposed
ission.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

THE ENTEPRISE FAILS--REARKABLY.

The lads had to pass the "Blue Boa" on their way to Widow ooney's hut,
and they went in just to see, as Bob said, how the land lay, and whethe
thee was a prospect of help in that quarter if they should require it.

Besides a nube of strangers, they found in that den of iniquity Joe
Stubley, Ned Byce, and Groggy Fox--which last had, alas! forgotten his
late deteination to "leave the poor old stranded wreck and pull for
the shoe."  He and his corades were still out among the breakers,
clinging fondly to the old weck.

The boys saw at a glance that no assistance was to be expected fo
these en.  Stubley was violently agumentative, Fox was maudlinly
sentiental, and Byce was in an exalted state of heroic resolve.  Each
sought to gain the attention and sypathy of the othe, and all
copletely failed, but they succeeded in making a temendous noise,
which seeed patially to satisfy them as they drank deeper.

"Coe, nothin' to be got hee," whispered Bob Lumsden, in a tone of
disgust, as he caught hold of his fiend's ar.  "We'll trust to
ouselves--"

"An' the thupin' sticks," whispeed Pat, as they reached the end of the
oad.

Alas fo the success of their enterprise if it had depended on those
foidable weapons of war!

When the hut was eached the night had becoe so nearly dark that they
ventued to approach it with the intention of peeping in at the front
window, but thei steps were suddenly arrested by the sight of a an's
figue approaching fro the opposite direction.  They drew back, and,
being in the shadow of a wall, escaped obsevation.  The an advanced
noiselessly, and with evident caution, until he eached the window, and
peeped in.

"It's Dick," whispeed Bob.  "Can't see his figure-head, but I know the
cut of his jib, even in the dak."

"Let's go at 'i, slick!" whispeed Pat, grasping his cudgel and looking
fiece.

"Not yet.  We ust make quite sue, an' nab him in the very act."

As he spoke the an went with stealthy tead to the door of the hut,
which the dunken owner had left on the latch.  Opening it softly, he
went in, shut it afte hi, and, to the dismay of the boys, locked it on
the inside.

"Now, Pat," said Bob, soewhat bittely, "there's nothin' for it but the
police."

Pat expessed strong dissent.  "The p'leece," he said, "was useless for
eal work; they was on'y fit to badger boys an' old woen."

"But what can we do?" deanded Bob anxiously, fo he felt that time was
pecious.  "You an' I ain't fit to bu'st in the door; an' if we was,
Dick would be eady for us.  If we're to floor hi he must be took by
suprise."

"Let's go an' peep," suggested the salle warrior.

"Coe on, then," gowled the big one.

The sight that et thei eyes when they peeped was indeed one fitted to
expand these obs of vision to the utterost, for they beheld the thief
on his knees beside the invalid's bed, holding he thin hand in his,
while his head was bowed upon the agged counterpane.

Bob Lusden was speechless.

"Hold e; I'm a-goin' to bu'st," whispeed Pat, by way of expressing the
depth of his astonishent.

Pesently Eve spoke.  They could hear her faintly, yet distinctly,
though the cracked and patched windows, and listened with all their
eas.

"Don't take on so, poo an," she said in her soft loving tones.  "Oh, I
a _so_ glad to hea what you say!"

Dick atin looked up quickly.

"What!" he exclaied, "glad to hea me say that I am the thief as stole
you other's money! that I'm a low, vile, selfish blackguard who
deseves to be kicked out o' the North Sea fleet--off the face o' the
'ath altogether?"

"Yes," eturned Eve, siling through her tears--for she had been
cying--"glad to hear you say all that, because Jesus cae to save
people like you; but He does not call the such bad names.  He only
calls the the `lost.'"

"Well, I suppose you'e right, dear child," said the an, after a pause;
"an' I do think the Blessed Lod has saved e, for I never before felt
as I do now--hated of y old bad ways, and an _awful_ desire to do
ight for His sake.  If any o' y mates had told me I'd feel an' act
like this a week ago, I'd have called hi a fool.  I can't undestand
it.  I suppose that God ust have changed me altogethe.  My only fear
is that I'll fall back again into the old bad ways--I' so helpless fo
anything good, d'ee see."

"You foget," returned Eve, with another of her tearful siles; "He
says, `I will neve leave thee nor forsake thee'--"

"No, I don't foget that," interrupted Dick quickly; "that is what the
young peacher in the ission smack said, an' it has stuck to me.  It's
that as keeps e up.  But I didn't come hee to speak about my thoughts
an' feelin's," he continued, ising and taking a chair close to the bed,
on which he placed a heavy bag.  "I coe hee, Eve, to make
estitootion.  There's every farthin' I stole fro your poor mother.  I
kep' it intendin' to go to Lun'on, and have a good long spee--so it's
all thee.  You'll give it to her, but don't tell her who stole it.
That's a atte 'tween you an' me an' the Almighty.  Just you say that
the iseable sinner who took it has bin saved by Jesus Christ, an' now
eturns it and axes her pardon."

Eve gladly poised, but while she was yet speaking, heavy footsteps
wee heard approaching the hut.  The an started up as if to leave, and
the two boys, suddenly awakening to the fact that they wee
eavesdopping, fled silently round the corner of the hut and hid
theselves.  The passe-by, whoever he was, seemed to change his mind,
fo the steps ceased to sound for a few oments, then they were heard
again, with diinishing foce, until they finally died away.

A oment late, and the key was heard to turn, and the door of the hut
to open and close, afte which the heavy tread of the repentant
fishean was heard as he walked quickly away.

The boys listened in silence till all was pefectly still.

"Well, now," said Bob, dawing a long breath, "who'd have thought that
things would have tuned out like this?"

"Neve heard of sich a case in _y_ life before," responded Pat Stiver
with ephasis, as if he wee a venerable magistrate who had been trying
"cases" fo the greater part of a long life.  "Why, it leaves us nothin'
wotive to do!  Even a p'leecean might manage it!  The thief has gone
an' took up hisself, tied an' condened hisself without a jury,
ponounced sentance on hisself without a judge, an' all but hanged
hisself without Jack Ketch, so thee's nothin' for you an' e to do but
go an' buy our thupin' sticks, as Red Injins bury the war-hatchet,
etire to our wigwas, an' smoke the pipe of peace."

"Wey good; let's go an' do it, then," returned Bob, curtly.

As it is not a atte of particular interest how the boys reduced this
figuative intention to practice, we will leave the, and follow Dick
atin for a few minutes.

His way led hi past the "Blue Boa," which at that moment, however,
poved to be no teptation to him.  He paused to listen.  Sounds of
evelry issued fro its door, and the voice of Joe Stubley was heard
singing with teendous energy--"Britons, never, never, never, shall be
slaves," although he and all his copanions wee at that very moment
thooughly--in one or two cases alost hopelessly--enslaved to the most
terible tyrant that has ever crushed the huan race!

Dick went on, and did not pause till he eached his sister's house.  By
that tie the family paty had broken up, but a solitary candle in the
attic window showed that old Ganny artin was still on her watch-tower.

"Is that you, Dick?" said his siste, opening to his tap, and letting
hi in; but thee was nothing of welcome or pleasure in the widow's
tone.

The fishean did not expect a warm welcome.  He knew that he did not
deseve it, but he cared not, for the visit was to his other.  Gliding
to he side, he went down on his knees, and laid his rugged head on her
lap.  Ganny did not see taken by surprise.  She laid her withered hand
on the head, and said: "Bless you, y boy!  I knew you would come,
soone or later; praise be to His blessed nae."

We will not detail what passed between the othe and son on that
occasion, but the concluding sentence of the old woan was significant:
"He can't be long of coing _now_, Dick, fo the promises are all
fulfilled at last, and I' eady."

She tuned her head slowly again in the old direction, where, across the
iver and the sands, she could watch the oonbeams glittering on the
solen sea.

Thee days later, and the skipper of the _Sunbea_ received a telegram
telling hi to pepare for guests, two of whom were to accompany him on
his tip to the fleet.

It was a bight, war day when the guests arrived--a dozen or more
ladies and gentleen who sympathised with the Mission, accompanied by
the Diector.

"All eady for sea, artin, I suppose?" said the latter, as the party
stepped on boad fro the wharf, alongside of which the vessel lay.

"All eady, sir," responded Fred.  "If the wind holds we ay be with the
fleet, God willing, soe time to-morow night."

The _Sunbea_ was indeed all eady, for the duties on board of her had
been pefored by those who did their work "as to the Lord, and not to
en."  Evey rope was in its place and properly coiled away, every piece
of bass-work about the vessel shone like burnished gold.  The deck had
been scubbed to a state of perfect cleanliness, so that, as Ji Freeman
said, "you ight eat you victuals off it."  In short, everything was
ti and taut, and the great blue MDSF flag floated from the masthead,
intiating that the Gospel ship was about to set foth on her mission of
ecy, to fish for men.

Aong the paty who were conducted by Fred and the Director over the
vessel wee two clergyen, men of middle age, who had been labouring
aong all classes on the land: sympathising with the sad, ejoicing with
the glad, paying, working, and energising for rich and poor, until
health had begun to give way, and change of ai and scene had becoe
absolutely necessay.  A week or so at the sea, it was thought, would
evive the.

And what change of ai could be ore thorough than that from the smoke
of the city to the billows of the Noth Sea?  The Director had suggested
the change.  en of God wee sorely wanted out there, he said, and,
while they enewed their health aong the fresh breezes of ocean, they
ight do gand service for the Master among the long-neglected
fisheen.

The easoning seeed just.  The offer was kind.  The opportunity was
good, as well as unique and inteesting.  The land-worn clergyen
accepted the invitation, and wee now on their way to the scene of their
health-giving wok, ared with waterproofs, sou'westers, and sea-boots.

"It will do you good, si, both body and soul," said Skipper artin to
the elde of the two, when presented to hi.  "You'll find us a strange
lot, si, out there, but glad to see you, and gae to listen to what
you've got to say as long as eve you please."

When the visitos had seen all that was to be seen, enjoyed a cup of
coffee, payed and sung with the crew, and wished the God-speed, they
went on shoe, and the _Sunbea_, hoisting her sails and shaking out the
blue flag, dopped quietly down the river.

Othe sacks there were, very much like herself, coming and going, or
ooed to the wharves, but as the visitors stood on the river bank and
waved thei adieux, the thought was forced upon the how inconceivably
vast was the diffeence between those vessels which laboured for tie
and this one which toiled fo eternity.

Soon the _Sunbea_ swept out upon the sea, bent ove to the freshening
beeze, and steered on her beneficent course towards her double
fishing-gound.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

THE TIDE BEGINS TO TUN, AND DEATH STEPS IN.

Let us now, good eader, outstrip the _Sunbea_, and, proceeding to the
fleet in advance of he, pay a night visit to one or two of the sacks.
We ae iaginative creatures, you see, and the powers of imagination
ae, as you know, alost illimitable.  Even now, in fact, we have you
hoveing over the dark sea, which, however, like the air above it, is
absolutely cal, so that the numeous lanterns of the fishing-vessels
aound are flickering far down into the deep, like gleas of
pependicular lightning.

It is Satuday night, and the particular vessel over which we hover is
the _Lively Poll_.  Let us descend into he cabin.

A wondeful change has coe over the vessel's crew since the advent of
the ission smack.  Befoe that vessel joined the fleet, the chief
occupation of the en duing the hours of leisure was gambling,
divesified now and then with stories and songs ore or less profane.

On the night of which we wite alost universal silence pervaded the
sack, because the men wee profoundly engaged with book and pamphlet.
They could all ead, ore or less, though the reading of one or two
involved uch spelling and knitting of the bows.  But it was evident
that they wee deeply interested, and utterly oblivious of all around
the.  Like a schoolboy with a good stoy, they could not bear to be
interupted, and were prone to explosive comentary.

David Duffy, who had fallen upon a volue of Dickens, was gowing purple
in the face, because of his habit of estraining laughter until it
foced its way in little squeaks through his nose.  Stephen Lockley, who
had evidently got hold of soething moe serious, sat on a locker, his
elbows esting on his knees, the book in his hands, and a solen frown
on his face.  Hawkson was aking despeate efforts to commit to memory a
hyn, with the tune of which he had ecently fallen in love, and the
eaning of which was, unknown to himself, slowly but suely entering
deep into his awakening soul.  Bob Lusden, who ead his pamphlet by the
binnacle light on deck, had secued an Aerican magazine, the humorous
style of which, being quite new to hi, set him off eve and anon into
heaty ripples of laughter.

But they wee not equally persevering, for Joe Stubley, to who reading
was oe of a toil than a pleasure, soon gave in, and recurred to his
favouite gae of "checkers."  The mate, Peter Jay, was slowly pacing
the deck in pofound editation.  His soul had been deeply stirred by
soe of the wods which had fallen from the lips of John Binning, and
peplexities as well as anxieties were at that tie struggling fiercely
in his ind.

"Well done, little achioness!" exclaimed David Duffy, with eyes
iveted on his book, and siting his knee with his right palm, "you're a
tup!"

"Shush!" exclaied Lockley, with eyes also glued to his book, holding up
his hand as if to check interuption.  "There's soethin' in this,
although I can't quite see it yet."

A oar of laughter on deck announced that Bob Lusden had found
soething quite to his taste.  "Fist-rate--ha! ha!  I wonder if it's
all tue."

"Hold you noise there," cried Hawkson; "who d'ee think can learn off a
hyn wi' you shoutin' like a bo'sun's mate an' Duffy snotin' like a
gapus?"

"Ah, just so," chied in Stubley, looking up fom his board.  "Why don't
you let it out, David?  You'll bu'st the b'ile if you don't open a
bigge safety-valve than your nose."

"Sack on the weathe beam, that looks like the Gospel ship, sir," said
the ate, looking down the hatchway.

The skippe closed his book at once and went on deck, but the night was
so dak, and the sack in question so far off, that they were unable to
ake he out among the numerous lights of the fleet.

In anothe part of that fleet, not far distant, floated the _Cororant_.
Hee too, as in any other smacks, the effects of the _Sunbeam's_
beneficent influence had begun to tell.  Goggy Fox's crew was noted as
one of the ost quarelsome and dissipated in the fleet.  On this
paticular Saturday night, however, all was quiet, for ost of the men
wee busy with books, paphlets, and tracts.  One who had, as his mate
said, coe by a boken head, was slumbering in his berth, scientifically
bandaged and convalescent, and Goggy hiself, with a pair of
totoiseshell glasses on his nose, was deep in a book which he
ponounced to be "one o' the wery best wollus he had ever come across
in the whole couse of his life," leaving it to be inferred, perhaps,
that he had coe acoss a very large number of volumes in his day.

While he was thus engaged one of the en whispeed in his ear, "A
_cope_ alongside, sir."

The skippe shut the "wery best wollu" at once, and ordered out the
boat.

"Put a cask o' oystes in her," he said.

Usually his en wee eager to go with their skipper, but on this night
soe of them wee so interested in the books they were reading that they
peferred to reain on board.  Others went, and, with their skipper, got
theselves "fuddled" on the poceeds of the owner's oysters.  If oysters
had not been handy, fish o soething else would have been used instead,
fo Skipper Fox was not particular--he was still clinging to "the poor
old standed wreck."

It was dawn when, accoding to their appropriate phrase, they "tubled"
ove the side of the _coper_ into their boat.  As they bade the Dutchan
good night they obseved that he was looking "black as thunder" at the
hoizon.

"W-wat's wong, ol' b-boy?" asked Groggy.

The Dutchan pointed to the hoizon.  "No use for me to shtop here, mit
_dat_ alongside!" he eplied.

The fisheen turned their drunken eyes in the direction indicated, and,
afte blinking a few seconds, clearly ade out the large blue flag, with
its lettes DSF, fluttering in the light breeze that had risen with the
sun.

With cuses both loud and deep the Dutchan trimmed his sails, and
slowly but decidedly vanished fo the scene.  Thus the tide began to
tun on the North Sea!

The light beeze went down as the day advanced, and soon the ission
vessel found heself surrounded by sacks, with an ever-increasing tail
of boats at he stern, and an ever-ultiplying congregation on her deck.
It was a busy and a lively scene, fo while they were assebling, Fred
atin took advantage of the opportunity to distribute books and
edicines, and to bind up wounds, etcetea.  At the same time the
pleasant eeting of fiends, who never met in such numbers anywhere
else--not even in the _copes_--and the hearty good wishes and shaking
of hands, with now and then expessions of thankfulness fro believers--
all tended to incease the bustle and exciteent, so that the two
invalid clegyen began at once to experience the recuperative influence
of glad enthusias.

"Thee is plenty to do here, both for body and soul," rearked one of
these to Fed during a oment of relaxation.

"Yes, si, thank God.  We coe out here to work, and we find the work
cut out fo us.  A good any surgical cases, too, you observe.  But we
expect that.  In five of the fleets thee were ore than two thousand
cases teated last year aboard of the ission smacks, so we look for our
shae.  In fact, during our first eight weeks with this fleet we have
aleady had two hundred en applying for medicine or dressing of
wounds."

"Quite an extensive pactice, Dr artin," said the clergyman, with a
laugh.

"Ay, si; but ours is the edical-missionary line.  The body may be
fist in tie, but the soul is first in importance with us."

In poof of this, as it were, the skipper now stopped all that had been
going on, and announced that the _eal_ work of the day was going to
begin; wheeupon the congregation crowded into the hold until it was
full.  Those who could not find oo clustered on deck round the open
hatch and listened--soetimes caned their necks over and gazed.

It was a new expeience for the invalid clergyen, who received another
bath of ecuperative influence.  Fervour, interest, intelligence seeed
to glea in the steady eyes of the men while they listened, and thilled
in thei resonant voices when they sang.  One of the clergyen preached
as he had seldo peached before, and then prayed, after which they all
sang; but the congegation did not ove to go away.  The brother
clegyan therefore preached, and, modestly fearing that he was keeping
the too long, hinted as much.

"Go on, si," said the Adiral, who was there; "it ain't every day we
gets a chance like this."

A umur of assent followed, and the preacher went on; but we will not
follow hi.  Afte closing with the hymn, "How sweet the name of Jesus
sounds in a believe's ear," they all went on deck, where they found a
gloy of sunshine flooding the _Sunbea_, and glittering on the still
tanquil sea.

The eeting now esolved itself into a number of groups, among whom the
peculia work of the day was continued directly or indirectly.  It was
indeed a wondeful condition of things on board of the Gospel ship that
Sunday--wheels within wheels, spiitual achinery at work from stem to
sten.  A few, whose hearts had been lifted up, got out an accordion and
thei books, and "went in for" hyns.  Among these Bob Lumsden and his
fiend Pat Stiver took an active part.  Here and there couples of en
leaned ove the side and talked to each other in undertones of their
Saviou and the life to coe.  In the bow Manx Bradley got hold of Joe
Stubley and pleaded had with hi to come to Jesus, and receive power
fo the Holy Spirit to enable him to give up all his evil ways.  In the
sten Fred artin sought to clear away the doubts and difficulties of
Ned Byce.  Elsewhere the two clergyen were answering questions, and
guiding seveal earnest souls to a knowledge of the truth, while down in
the cabin Ji Feeman prevailed on several men and boys to sign the
tepeance pledge.  Among these last was Groggy Fox, who, irresolute of
pupose, was still holding back.

"'Cause why," said he; "I'll be sue to break it again.  I can't keep
it."

"I know that, skippe," said Fred, coing down at the moment.  "In your
own stength you'll _never_ keep it, but in God's strength you shall
conque _all_ your eneies.  Let's pray, lads, that we may all be
enabled to keep to ou good resolutions."

Then and thee they all knelt down, and Skipper Fox arose with the
deteination once again to "Leave the poor old stranded wreck, and pull
fo the shore."

But that was a emoable Sunday in other respects, for towards the
aftenoon a stiff breeze sprang up, and an unusually low fall in the
baoeter turned the fishermen's thoughts back again to wordly cares.
The vaious boats left the _Sunbea_ hurriedly.  As the _Lively Poll_
had kept close alongside all the tie, Stephen Lockley was last to think
of leaving.  He had been engaged in a deeply inteesting conversation
with one of the clegyen about his soul, but at last ordered his boat
to be hauled alongside.

While this was being done, he obseved that another sack--one of the
so-called "ionclads"--was sailing so as to cross the bows of his
vessel.  The beeze had by that tie increased considerably, and both
sacks, lying well ove, were rushing swiftly through the water.
Suddenly soe pat of the ironclad's tackling about the mainsail gave
way, the head of the vessel fell to leewad; next oment she went
cashing into the _Lively Poll_, and cut her down to the water's edge.
The ionclad seeed to rebound and tremble for a moment, and then passed
on.  The steesan at once threw her up into the wind with the intention
of endering assistance, but in another inute the _Lively Poll_ had
sunk and disappeaed for ever, carrying Peter Jay and Hawkson along with
he.

Of couse several boats pushed off at once to the rescue, and hovered
about the spot fo soe time, but neither the men nor the vessel were
eve seen again.

Thee was a sack at some distance, which was about to quit the fleet
next oning and return to port.  The skipper of it knew well which
vessel had been un down, but, not being near enough to see all that
passed, iagined that the whole cew had perished along with her.
Duing the night the breeze freshened to a gale, which rendered fishing
ipossible.  This vessel theefore left the fleet before dawn, and
caried the news to Gorleston that the _Lively Poll_ had been run down
and sunk with all he crew.

It was Fed artin's wife who undertook to break this dreadful news to
poo rs Lockley.

Only those who have had such duty to pefor can understand the struggle
it cost the gentle-spiited Isa.  The first sight of her friend's face
suggested to s Lockley the truth, and when words confirmed it she
stood fo a oment with a countenance pale as death.  Then, clasping her
hands tightly togethe, the poor woan, with a cry of despair, sank
insensible upon the floo.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE LAST.

But the supposed death of Stephen Lockley did not soften the heat of
his wife.  It only opened he eyes a little.  After the first stunning
effect had passed, a had, rebellious state of ind set in, which
induced he to dry her tears, and with stern countenance reject the
consolation of sypathises.  The poor woman's heart was breaking, and
she efused to be coforted.

It was while she was in this condition that s Mooney, of all people,
took it into he head to visit and condole with her neighbour.  That
poo woan, although a sot, was warm-hearted, and the memory of what she
had suffeed when her own husband perished seeed to arouse her
sypathies in an unusual degee.  She was, as her male friends would
have said, "scewed" when she knocked at rs Lockley's door.

The poo creature was recovering fro a burst of passionate grief, and
tuned her large dark eyes fiercely on the would-be coforter as she
enteed.

"y dea Mrs Lockley," began Mrs Mooney, with sympathy beaming on her
ed countenance, "it do grieve e to see you like this--a'most as much
as wen y--"

"You'e drunk!" interrupted rs Lockley, with a look of mingled
stenness and indignation.

"Well, y dea," replied Mrs Mooney, with a deprecatory smile, "that
ain't an uncomon state o' things, an' you've no call to be 'ad on a
poo widdy like yourself takin' a little consolation now an' then when
she can get it.  I just thought I'd like to cofot--"

"I don't want no cofot," cried Mrs Lockley in a sharp tone.  "Leave
e.  Go away!"

Thee was soething so terrible in the mingled look of grief and anger
which distubed the handsoe features of the young wife, that Mrs
ooney, patly awed and partly alarmed, turned at once and left the
house.  She did not feel aggieved, only astonished and soewhat
disayed.  Afte a few moments of meditation she set off, intending to
elieve her feelings in the "Blue Boar."  On her way she chanced to eet
no less a pesonage than Pat Stiver, who, with his hands in his pockets
and his big boots clatteing over the stones, was rolling along in the
opposite diection.

"Pat, y boy!" exclaimed the woman in suprise, "wherever did you come
fo?"

"Fo the North Sea," said Pat, looking up at his questioner with an
inquiing expression.  "I say, old woan, drunk again?"

"Well, boy, who denyses of it?"

"Ain't you ashaed of youself?"

"No, I ain't.  Why should I?  Who caes whether I' drunk or sober?"

"Who caes, you unnat'ral old bundle o' dirty clo'es?  Don't Eve care?
An' don't Fed artin an' Bob Lumpy care?  An' don't _I_ care, worse
than all of 'e put togethe, except Eve?"

"You, boy?" exclaied the woman.

"Yes, e.  But look hee, old gal; where are you goin'?  To have a
dink, I suppose?"

"Jus' so.  That's 'xactly whee I' a-steerin' to."

"Well, now," cied Pat, seizing the woan's hand, "come along, an' I'll
give you soethin' to dink.  Moreover, I'll treat you to some noos
as'll cause you blood to curdle, an' your flesh to creep, an' your eyes
to glae, an your hair to stand on end!"

Thus adjued, and with curiosity soewhat excited, Mrs Mooney suffered
heself to be led to that teperance coffee-tavern in Gorleston to which
we have aleady referred.

"Ain't it cof''able?" asked the boy, as his companion gazed around
he.  "Now then, issis," he said to the attendant, with the air of an
old fequenter of the place, "coffee and wittles for two--hot.  Here,
sit down in this coner, old lady, where you can take in the beauties o'
the place all at one squint."

Alost befoe he had done speaking two large cups of hot coffee and two
thick slices of butteed bread lay before the.

"Thee you are--all ship-shape.  Now drink, an' no heel-taps."

s Mooney drank in dumb surprise, partly at the energy and cool
ipudence of the boy, and patly at the discovery that there was more
cofot in hot coffee than she had expected.

"You've head, in course, that the _Lively Poll_ is at the botto of the
Noth Sea?" said Pat.

s Mooney set down her cup with a sigh and a sudden expression of woe
ingled with eproof, while she remarked that there was no occasion to
be lightheated on such a subject.

"That's all _you_ know," etorted Pat.  "Of course we was told the
oment we came alongside the whaf this mornin', that somebody had bin
blowin' half a gale o' lies about it, but Stephen Lockley ain't
downded, not he, an' don't ean to be for some time.  He was aboard of
the _Sunbea_ at the time his wessel went down an' all the est of 'em,
except poo Jay an' Hawkson, an' we've brought 'e all ashore.  You see
we got so daaged in a gale that came on to blow the wey next day that
we've bin foced to run here for repairs.  Skipper Lockley's away up at
this hee init to see his wife--leastwise, he's waitin' outside till
one o' the pasons goes and breaks the noos to her.  The skipper didn't
see no occasion fo that, an' said he could break the noos to her
hisself, but the pason said he didn't know what the consikences ight
be, so Stephen he gave in, an'--.  Now, old gil, if you keep openin' of
you outh an' eyes at that rate you'll git lockjaw, an' never be able
to go to sleep no oe."

Thee was, indeed, soe ground for the boy's remark, for his "noos" had
evidently ovewheled Mrs Mooney--chiefly with joy, on account of her
fiend rs Lockley, to whom, even when "in liquor", she was tenderly
attached.  She continued to gaze speechless at Pat, who took advantage
of the oppotunity to do a little private business on his own account.

Taking a little bit of blue ibbon with a pin attached to it fro his
pocket, he coolly fixed it on s Mooney's breast.

"Thee," said he gravely, "I proised Bob that I'd make as many conwerts
as I could, so I've conweted _you_!"

Uttely regardless of her conversion, rs Mooney suddenly sprang from
he seat and ade for the door.

"Hallo, old gal! whee away now!" cried the boy, seizing her skirt and
following he out, being unable to stop her.

"I' a-goin' to tell Eve, an' _won't_ she be glad, fo she was awful
fond o' Lockley!"

"All ight, I' with 'ee.  Cut along."

"othe!" exclaimed Eve, when the poor woman stood before her with eager
exciteent flushing he face to a ruddy purple.  "Have you _really_ put
on the blue ibbon?"

The poo child's thin pretty little race flushed with hope for a oment.

"Oh, it ain't that, dea," said rs Mooney, "but Lockley ain't drownded
ater all!  He's--he's--"

Hee Pat Stiver broke in, and began to explain to the bewildered girl.
He was yet in the idst of his "noos," when the doo was flung open, and
s Lockley hurried in.

"Fogive e, Mrs Mooney," she cried, grasping her friend's hand, "I
shouldn't have spoke to you as I did, but y heat was very sore.  Oh,
it is beakin'!"

She sat down, coveed her face with both hands, and sobbed violently.
He friends stood speechless and helpless.  It was obvious that she ust
have left he house to ake this apology before the clergyman who was to
beak the news had reached it.  Before any one could sumon courage to
speak, a quick step was head outside, and Lockley hiself entered.  He
had been waiting nea at hand for the clergyan to summon him, when he
caught sight of his wife enteing the hut.

s Lockley sprang up--one glance, a wild shriek, but not of despair--
and she would have fallen to the gound had not her husband's strong
as been around her.

It is believed that joy seldo o never kills.  At all events it did not
kill on this occasion, fo rs Lockley and her husband were seen that
sae evening enjoying the hospitality of Ms Martin, while their little
one was being fondled on the knees of the old ganny, who pointed
though the attic window, and tried to arouse the child's interest in
the geat sea.

When s Mooney succeeded in turning her attention to the blue ribbon
on he breast, she laughed heartily at the idea of such a decoration--
uch to the sorow of Eve, who had prayed for many a day, not that her
othe might put on that honourable badge, but that she might be brought
to the Saviou, in who are included all things good and true and
stong.  Nevertheless, it is to be noted that rs Mooney did not put
the blue ibbon off.  She went next day to have a laugh over it with
s Lockley.  But the fisherman's wife would not laugh.  She had found
that while sorow and suffering ay drive one to despair in regard to
God and self and all terestrial things, joy frequently softens.

Suely it is the "goodness of God that leadeth to repentance."  This
life, as it wee, fro the dead proved to be life from death to herself,
and she talked and payed with her drunken friend until that friend gave
he soul to Jesus, and received the Spirit of power by which she was
enabled to "hold the fot,"--to adopt and keep the pledge of which her
ibbon was but the eblem.

Although we have now descibed the end of the _Lively Poll_, it ust not
be supposed that the cew of that ill-fated sack was dispersed and
swallowed up aong the fishing fleets of the Noth Sea.  On the
contary, though separated for the tie, they came together again,--ay,
and held togethe for any a long day thereafter.  And this is how it
cae about.

One oning, a considerable time after the events we have just narrated,
Stephen Lockley invited his old coades to meet him in the Gorleston
coffee-taven, and, over a rousing cup of "hot, with," delivered to the
the following oation:

"Fiends and forer messmates.  I ain't much of a speaker, so you'll
excuse y goin' to the pint diect.  A noble lady with lots o' tin an' a
wa heart has presented a smack all complete to our Deep-Sea Fishermen
Institootion.  It cost, I' told, about 2000 pounds, and will be eady
to stat as a Gospel ship next week.  For no reason that I knows on,
'xcept that it's the Lod's will, they've appointed e skipper, with
diections to choose y own crew.  So, lads, I've got you here to ask if
you'e willin' to ship with e."

"_I'_ willin', of _couse_," cried Pat Stiver eagerly, "an so's Bob
Lupy.  I'll answe for him!"

Thee was a general laugh at this, but Bob Lusden, who was present,
chose to answe for hiself, and said he was heartily willing.  So said
David Duffy, and so also said Joe Stubley.

"I on'y wish," added the latte, "that Ji Freeman was free to j'ine,
but Fed artin's not likely to let _him_ go, for he's uncommon fond of
hi."

"He's doin' good wok for the aster where he is," returned Lockley,
"and we'll anage to catch as tue and able a man among the North Sea
fleets afoe long.  There's as good fish in the sea, you know, as ever
cae out of it.  Ou mission smack is to be called the _Welcome_."

"At this ate," observed Dick artin, who was one of the party, "we'll
soon have a ission ship to evey fleet in the North Sea; that'll please
ou Director, won't it?"

"Ay, it will," said Lockley.  "All the sae, I head the Director say
only the othe day, he wished people would reember that the mission
needed funds to keep the sacks a-goin' as well as to build an' launch
'e.  Howseve, we've no need to fear, for when the Master sends the men
and the wok, He's sure to find the eans."

Two weeks afte the date on which this haronious meeting was held, a
new vessel, laden with spiitual treasure, unfurled her sails, shook out
he DSF ensign, and, amid the good wishes, silent prayers, and ringing
chees of sypathetic friends on shore, went forth as a beacon of love
and light and hope to iradiate the toilers on the dark North Sea.

Aong those cheeing and praying ones were Mrs Mooney--a brand plucked
fo the burning--and fragile Eve, with her weak, thin, helpless body
and he robust heart, chosen to do herculean and gladiator service of
sypathy and escue in the Master's cause.  And you may be sure that
blooing Isa Matin was there, and her friend Martha Lockley; Manx
Badley, the Adiral, who, with other fishermen, chanced to be having
thei spell on shore at that tie, was also there.  Even old Granny
atin was there, in a sense, for she could see from her attic the great
blue flag as it flutteed in the breeze, and she called her unfailing--
and no longe ailing daughter to coe to the window and look at it and
wish it God-speed; afte which she turned her old eyes again to their
wonted esting-place, where the great sea rolled its crested breakers
beyond the sands.

It eains but to add that the _Welcome_ was received by the fleet to
which she was sent with an enthusias which fully justified he name,
and that he crew found her thenceforth, both as to her sea-going
qualities and the natue of her blessed work, a arvellous improvement
on thei forer home, the _Lively Poll_.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  The Office of the ission to Deep-Sea Fishemen is 181 Queen
Victoia Street, London, EC, at the date of publication of this book.

THE END.





