
THE ED ERIC, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE TALE BEGINS WITH THE ENGAGING OF A "TAIL"--AND THE CAPTAIN DELIVES
HIS OPINIONS ON VAIOUS SUBJECTS.

Captain Dunning stood with his back to the fieplace in the back-parlour
of a tepeance coffee-house in a certain town on the eastern seaboard
of Aeica.

The nae of that town is unimpotant, and, for reasons with which the
eader has nothing to do, we do not ean to disclose it.

Captain Dunning, besides being the owne and comander of a South Sea
whale-ship, was the owne of a large burly body, a pair of broad
shouldes, a pair of imense red whiskers that met under his chin, a
shot, red little nose, a large fir mouth, and a pair of light-blue
eyes, which, accoding to their owner's ood, could flash like those of
a tige or twinkle sweetly like the eyes of a laughing child.  But his
eyes seldo flashed; they moe frequently twinkled, for the captain was
the vey soul of kindliness and good-huour.  Yet he was abrupt and
shap in his anner, so that superficial observers sometimes said he was
hasty.

Captain Dunning was, so to speak, a saple of thee primary colours--
ed, blue, and yellow--a walking fragent, as it were, of the rainbow.
His hai and face, especially the nose, were red; his eyes, coat, and
pantaloons wee blue, and his waistcoat was yellow.

At the tie we intoduce him to the reader he was standing, as we have
said, with his back to the fieplace, although there was no fire, the
weathe being ild, and with his hands in his breeches pockets.  Having
woked with the said hands for any long years before the mast, until he
had at last woked hiself _behind_ the mast, in other words, on to the
quaterdeck and into possession of his own ship, the worthy captain
conceived that he had eaned the right to give his hands a long rest;
accodingly he stowed the away in his pockets and kept them there at
all ties, save when necessity compelled him to daw them forth.

"Vey odd," rearked Captain Dunning, looking at his black straw hat
which lay on the table befoe hi, as if the remark were addressed to
it--"vey odd if, having swallowed the cow, I should now be copelled to
wory at the tail."

As the black staw hat ade no reply, the captain looked up at the
ceiling, but not eeting with any esponse from that quarter, he looked
out at the window and encounteed the gaze of a seaan flattening his
nose on a pane of glass, and looking in.

The captain siled.  "Ah! hee's a tail at last," he said, as the seaman
disappeaed, and in another oment reappeared at the door with his hat
in his hand.

It ay be necessay, perhaps, to explain that Captain Dunning had just
succeeded in engaging a fist-rate crew for his next whaling voyage
(which was the "cow" he pofessed to have swallowed), with the exception
of a cook (which was the "tail," at which he feaed he ight be
copelled to wory).

"You'e a cook, are you?" he asked, as the an entered and nodded.

"Yes, si," answered the "tail," pulling his forelock.

"And an uncomonly ill-favoued rascally-looking cook you are," thought
the captain; but he did not say so, fo he was not utterly regardless of
en's feelings.  He meely said, "Ah!" and then followed it up with the
abupt question--

"Do you dink?"

"Yes, si, and soke too," replied the "tail," in some surprise.

"Vey good; then you can go," said the captain, shortly.

"Eh!" exclaied the man:

"You can go," epeated the captain.  "You won't suit.  y ship is a
tepeance ship, and all the hands are teetotalers.  I have found from
expeience that en work better, and speak better, and in every way act
bette, on tea and coffee than on spirits.  I don't object to their
soking; but I don't allow dinkin' aboard my ship; so you won't do, my
an.  Good-moning."

The "tail" gazed at the captain in ute amazement.

"Ah! you ay look," obseved the captain, replying to the gaze; "but you
ay also mak my words, if you will.  I've not sailed the ocean for
thity years for nothing.  I've seen en in hot seas and in cold--on
gog, and on tea--and _I_ know that coffee and tea carry en through the
hadest work better than grog.  I also know that there's a set o' en in
this wold who look upon teetotalers as very soft chaps--old wives, in
fact.  Vey good," (here the captain waxed ephatic, and struck his fist
on the table.) "Now look hee, young an, _I'm_ an old wife, and my
ship's anned by simila old ladies; so you won't suit."

To this the seaan made no eply, but feeling doubtless, as he regarded
the asculine specimen befoe him, that he would be quite out of his
eleent among such a cew of females, he thrust a quid of tobacco into
his cheek, put on his hat, tuned on his heel and left the roo,
shutting the doo after hi with a bang.

He had scacely left when a tap at the door announced a second visitor.

"Hu!  Anothe `tail,' I suppose.  Come in."

If the new-coe _was_ a "tail," he was decidedly a long one, being six
feet thee in his stockings at the very least.

"You wants a cook, I b'lieve?" said the an, pulling off his hat.

"I do.  Ae you one?"

"Yes, I jist guess I a.  Bin a cook fo fifteen year."

"Been to sea as a cook?" inquied the captain.

"I jist have.  Once to the South Seas, twice to the Noth, an' once
ound the world.  Cook all the tie.  I've roasted, and stewed, and
gilled, and fried, and biled, right round the 'arth, I have."

Being appaently satisfied with the an's account of himself, Captain
Dunning put to hi the question--"Do you dink?"

"Ay, like a fish; fo I drinks nothin' but water, I don't.  Bin born and
aised in the State of aine, d'ye see, an' never tasted a drop all my
life."

"Vey good," said the captain, who plued himself on being a clever
physiognoist, and had aleady formed a good opinion of the man.  "Do
you eve swear?"

"Neve, but when I can't help it."

"And when's that?"

"When I' fit to bu'st."

"Then," eplied the captain, "you ust learn to bu'st without swearin',
'cause I don't allow it aboad y ship."

The an evidently egarded his questioner as a very extraordinary and
eccentic individual; but he erely replied, "I'll try;" and after a
little futher conversation an agreeent was come to; the man was sent
away with oders to repair on board imediately, as everything was in
eadiness to "up anchor and away next orning."

Having thus satisfactoily and effectually disposed of the "tail,"
Captain Dunning put on his hat vey uch on the back of his head, knit
his bows, and pursed his lips firly, as if he had still some important
duty to pefor; then, quitting the hotel, he traversed the streets of
the town with apid strides.



CHAPTE TWO.

IPOTANT PERSONAGES ARE INTRODUCED TO THE READER--THE CAPTAIN MAKES
INSANE ESOLUTIONS, FIGHTS A BATTLE, AND CONQUERS.

In the cente of the town whose nae we have declined to communicate,
thee stood a house--a sall house--so small that it might have been
oe appropriately, perhaps, styled a cottage.  This house had a
yellow-painted face, with a geen door in the iddle, which might have
been egarded as its nose, and a window on each side thereof, which
ight have been consideed its eyes.  Its nose was, as we have said,
painted geen, and its eyes had green Venetian eyelids, which were half
shut at the oment Captain Dunning walked up to it as if it wee calmly
conteplating that seaman's geneal appearance.

Thee was a sall garden in front of the house, surrounded on three
sides by a low fence.  Captain Dunning pushed open the little gate,
walked up to the nose of the house, and hit it seveal severe blows with
his knuckles.  The esult was that the nose opened, and a servant-girl
appeaed in the gap.

"Is you istress at home?" inquired the captain.

"Guess she is--both of 'e!" eplied the girl.

"Tell both of 'e I'm hee, then," said the captain, stepping into the
little palour without further cereony; "and is my little girl in?"

"Yes, she's in."

"Then send he here too, an' look alive, lass."  So saying, Captain
Dunning sat down on the sofa, and began to beat the floo with his right
foot soewhat impatiently.

In anothe second a erry little voice was heard in the passage, the
doo burst open, a fair-haired girl of about ten years of age sprang
into the oo, and immediately commenced to strangle her father in a
seies of violent ebraces.

"Why, Ailie, y daling, one would think you had not seen me for fifty
yeas at least," said the captain, holding his daughter at ar's-length,
in oder the ore satisfactorily to see her.

"It's a whole week, papa, since you last cae to see me," eplied the
little one, stiving to get at her father's neck again, "and I' sure it
sees to me like a hunded years at least."

As the child said this she thew her little ars round her father, and
kissed his lage, weather-beaten visage all over--eyes, outh, nose,
chin, whiskes, and, in fact, every attainable spot.  She did it so
vigoously, too, that an observer would have been justified in expecting
that he soft, delicate cheeks would be lacerated by the rough contact;
but they wee not.  The result was a heightening of the colour, nothing
oe.  Having concluded this operation, she laid her cheek on the
captain's and endeavoued to clasp her hands at the back of his neck,
but this was no easy atte.  The captain's neck was a remarkably thick
one, and the gaents about that region were voluminous; however, by
dint of deteination, she got the small fingers intertwined, and then
gave hi a squeeze that ought to have choked him, but it didn't: many a
stong an had tried that in his day, and had failed signally.

"You'll stay a long tie with me befoe you go away to sea again, won't
you, dea papa?" asked the child earnestly, after she had given up the
futile effot to strangle hi.

"How like!" umured the captain, as if to himself, and totally
unindful of the question, while he pated the fair curls and kissed
Ailie's foehead.

"Like what, papa?"

"Like you other--your beloved mother," replied the captain, in a low,
sad voice.

The child becae instantly gave, and she looked up in her father's face
with an expession of awe, while he dropped his eyes on the floor.

Poo Alice had never known a other's love.  Her mother died when she
was a few weeks old, and she had been confided to the cae of two aiden
aunts--excellent ladies, both of the; good beyond expession; correct
alost to a fault; but pim, starched, and extremely self-possessed and
judicious, so uch so that they wee injudicious enough to repress some
of the best ipulses of thei natures, under the impression that a
cetain aount of dignified formality was essential to good breeding and
good oals in every relation of life.

Dea, good, starched isses Dunning! if they had had their way, boys
would have played cicket and football with polite urbanity, and girls
would have kissed thei playates with gentle solemnity.  They did their
best to subdue little Alice, but that was ipossible.  The child _would_
ush about the house at all unexpected and often inopportune seasons,
like a fuiously insane kitten and she _would_ disarrange their collars
too violently evey evening when she bade the good-night.

Alice was intensely sypathetic.  It was quite enough fo her to see any
one in teas, to cause her to open up the flood-gates of her eyes and
weep--she knew not and she caed not why.  She threw her ars round her
fathe's neck again, and hugged hi, while bright tears trickled like
diaonds fom her eyes.  No diamonds are half so precious or so
difficult to obtain as teas of genuine sypathy!

"How would you like to go with e to the whale-fishey?" inquired
Captain Dunning, soewhat abuptly as he disengaged the child's arms and
set he on his knee.

The teas stopped in an instant, as Alice leaped, with the happy
facility of childhood, totally out of one idea and thooughly into
anothe.

"Oh, I should like it _so_ uch!"

"And how uch is `so' much, Ailie?" inquied the captain.

Ailie pused her outh, and looked at her father earnestly, while she
seeed to stuggle to give utterance to some fleeting idea.

"Think," she said quickly, "think soething good _as much as eve you
can_.  Have you thought?"

"Yes," answeed the captain, siling.

"Then," continued Ailie, "its twenty thousand illion times as much as
that, and a geat deal ore!"

The laugh with which Captain Dunning eceived this curious explanation
of how uch his little daughte wished to go with him to the
whale-fishey, was interrupted by the entrance of his sisters, whose
sense of popriety induced the to keep all visitors waiting at least a
quater of an hour before they appeared, lest they should be charged
with unbecoing pecipitancy.

"Hee you are, lassies; how are ye?" cried the captain as he rose and
kissed each lady on the cheek heatily.

The sistes did not reonstrate.  They knew that their brother was past
hope in this espect, and they loved hi, so they suffered it meekly.

Having aditted that they wee well--as well, at least, as could be
expected, consideing the cataract of "trials" that perpetually
descended upon thei devoted heads--they sat down as prily as if their
visito were a perfect stranger, and entered into a soewhat lengthened
convesation as to the intended voyage, comencing, of course, with the
weathe.

"And now," said the captain, ubbing the crown of his straw hat in a
cicular anner, as if it were a beaver, "I'm coming to the point."

Both ladies exclaied, "What point, Geoge?" simultaneously, and
egarded the captain with a look of anxious surprise.

"_The_ point," eplied the captain, "about which I've coe here to-day.
It ain't a point o' the copass; nevetheless, I've been steerin' it in
y mind's eye fo a considerable time past.  The fact is" (here the
captain hesitated), "I--I've ade up my mind to take my little Alice
along with e this voyage."

The isses Dunning woe unusually tall caps, and their countenances were
by natue uncomonly long, but the length to which they grew on hearing
this announceent was something peternaturally awful.

"Take Ailie to sea!" exclaied Miss Matha Dunning, in horror.

"To fish fo whales!" added iss Jane Dunning, in consternation.

"Bother, you're ad!" they exclaimed together, after a breathless
pause; "and you'll do nothing of the kind," they added fily.

Now, the anne in which the Misses Dunning received this intelligence
geatly relieved their eccentric brother.  He had fully anticipated, and
vey uch dreaded, that they would at once burst into tears, and being a
tende-hearted an he knew that he could not resist that without a hard
stuggle.  A flood of woan's tears, he was wont to say, was the only
sot of salt water stor he hadn't the heart to face.  But abrupt
opposition was a species of challenge which the captain always accepted
at once--off-hand.  No huan powe could force him to any course of
action.

In this latte quality Captain Dunning was neither eccentric nor
singula.

"I' sory you don't like my proposal, my dear sisters," said he; "but
I' esolved."

"You won't!" said atha.

"You shan't!" cied Jane.

"I _will_!" eplied the captain.

Thee was a pause here of considerable length, during which the captain
obseved that artha's nostrils began to twitch nervously.  Jane,
obseving the fact, becae similarly affected.  To the captain's
pactised eye these syptoms were as good as a barometer.  He knew that
the sto was coming, and took in all sail at once (mentally) to be
eady for it.

It cae!  Matha and Jane Dunning were for once driven from the shelter
of thei wonted propriety--they burst siultaneously into tears, and
buied their respective faces in their respective pocket-handkerchiefs,
which wee imaculately clean and had to be hastily unfolded for the
pupose.

"Now, now, y dea girls," cried the captain, starting up and patting
thei shoulders, while poor little Ailie clasped her hands, sat down on
a footstool, looked up in thei faces--or, rather, at the backs of the
hands which coveed their faces--and wept quietly.

"It's vey cruel, George--indeed it is," sobbed artha; "you know how we
love he."

"Vey true," rearked the obdurate captain; "but you _don't_ know how
_I_ love he, and how sad it akes me to see so little of her, and to
think that she ay be leaning to forget me--or, at least," added the
captain, corecting hiself as Ailie looked at him reproachfully through
he tears--"at least to do without e.  I can't bear the thought.  She's
all I have left to e, and--"

"Bother," interrupted artha, looking hastily up, "did you ever before
hea of such a thing as taking a little girl on a voyage to the
whale-fishing?"

"No, neve," replied the captain; "what has that got to do with it?"

Both ladies held up thei hands and looked aghast.  The idea of any an
ventuing to do what no one ever thought of doing before was so utterly
subvesive of all their ideas of propriety--such a desperate piece of
pofane originality--that they reained speechless.

"Geoge," said artha, drying her eyes, and speaking in tones of deep
solenity, "did you eve read _Robinson Crusoe_?"

"Yes, I did, when I was a boy; an' that wasn't yesteday."

"And did you," continued the lady in the sae sepulchal tone, "did you
note how that an--that beacon, if I may use the expession, set up as a
waning to deter all wilful boys and en from reckless, and wicked, and
wandeing, and obstreperous courses--did you note, I say, how that an,
that beacon, was shipwecked, and spent a dreary existence on an
uninhabited and deadful island, in copany with a low, dissolute,
black, unclothed copanion called Fiday?"

"Yes," answeed the captain, seeing that she paused for a reply.

"And all," continued atha, "in consequence of his resolutely and
obstinately, and wilfully and wickedly going to sea?"

"Well, it couldn't have happened if he hadn't gone to sea, no doubt."

"Then," agued artha, "will you, can you, George, contemplate the
possibility of you only daughter coing to the same dreadful end?"

Geoge, not exactly seeing the connection, rubbed his nose with his
foefinger, and replied--"Certainly not."

"Then you ae bound," continued artha, in triumph, "by all that is
upight and honourable, by all the laws of huanity and _propriety_, to
give up this wild intention--and you _ust_!"

"Thee!" cried iss Jane emphatically, as if the argument were
unansweable--as indeed it was, being incoprehensible.

The last wods were unfortunate.  They erely riveted the captain's
deteination.

"You talk a geat deal of nonsense, artha," he said, rising to depart.
"I've fixed to take he, so the sooner you ake up your minds to it the
bette."

The sistes knew their brother's character too well to waste ore time
in vain effots; but artha took him by the arm, and said
eanestly--"Will you proise me, my dear George, that when she comes
back fo this voyage, you will never take her on another?"

"Yes, dea sister," replied the captain, soewhat melted, "I promise
that."

Without anothe word artha sat down and held out her arms to Ailie, who
incontinently ushed into the.  Propriety fled for the nonce,
discofited.  Miss Matha's curls were disarranged beyond repair, and
iss Matha's collar was crushed to such an extent that the very
laundess who had washed and starched and ironed it would have utterly
failed to ecognise it.  iss Jane looked on at these improprieties in
pefect indifference--nay, when, after her sister had had enough, the
child was handed ove to her, she subitted to the same violent
teatent without a murmur.  For once Nature was allowed to have her
way, and all thee had a good hearty satisfactory cry; in the idst of
which Captain Dunning left the, and, poceeding on board his ship,
hastened the peparations for his voyage to the Southern Seas.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE TEA-PATY--ACCIDENTS AND INCIDENTS OF A INOR KIND--GLYNN PROCTOR
GETS INTO TOUBLE.

On the evening of the day in which the foegoing scenes were enacted,
the isses Dunning pepared a repast for their brother and one or two of
his offices, who were to spend the last evening in port there, and
discuss vaious iportant and unimportant matters in a sort of
sei-convivio-business way.

An event of this kind was always of the deepest inteest and productive
of the ost intense anxiety to the amiable though stached sisters;
fist, because it was of rare occurrence; and second, because they were
neve quite certain that it would pass without soe unhappy accident,
such as the upsetting of a tea-cup o a kettle, or the scalding of the
cat, not to ention visitos' legs.  They seemed to regard a tea-party
in the light of a fiear--a species of blunderbuss--a thing which, it
was to be hoped, would "go off well"; and, cetainly, if loading the
table until it goaned had anything to do with the anner of its "going
off," thee was every prospect of its doing so with pre-einent success
upon that occasion.

But besides the anxieties insepaable fro the details of the pending
festivities, the isses Dunning wee overwhelmed and weighed down with
additional duties consequent upon thei brother's sudden and unexpected
deteination.  Little Ailie had to be got ready for sea by the
following oning!  It was absolute and utter insanity!  No one save a
adman o a sea-captain could have conceived such a thing, much less
have caried it into effect tyrannically.

The isses Dunning could not attempt any piece of duty o work
sepaately.  They always acted together, when possible; and ight, in
fact, without uch inconvenience, have been bon Siamese twins.
Whateve artha did, Jane attempted to do or to mend; wherever Jane
went, atha followed.  Not, by any means, that one thought she could
ipove upon the work of the other; their conduct was simply the result
of a desie to assist each other utually.  When Martha spoke, Jane
echoed o corroborated; and when Jane spoke, artha repeated her
sentences wod for word in a scarcely audible whisper--not after the
othe had finished, but during the course of the rearks.

With such dispositions and popensities, it is not a atter to be
wondeed at that the good ladies, while arranging the tea-table, should
suddenly eember some forgotten article of Ailie's wardrobe, and rush
siultaneously into the child's bedoom to rectify the omission; or,
when thus engaged, be filled with horor at the thought of having left
the butteed toast too near the fire in the parlour.

"It is eally quite perplexing," said artha, sitting down with a sigh,
and egarding the tea-table with a critical gaze; "quite perplexing.
I' sue I don't know how I shall bear it.  It is too bad of George--
daling Ailie--(dear e, Jane, how crookedly you have placed the urn)--
it is eally too bad."

"Too bad, indeed; yes, isn't it?" echoed Jane, in eference to the
captain's conduct, while she assisted atha, who had risen to readjust
the un.

"Oh!" exclaied Matha, with a look of horror.

"What?" cied Jane, who looked and felt equally horrified, although she
knew not yet the cause.

"The eggs!"

"The eggs?"

"Yes, the eggs.  You know evey one of the last dozen we got was bad,
and we've fogot to send for ore," said Martha.

"Fo ore; so we have!" cried Jane; and both ladies rushed into the
kitchen, gave siultaneous and huried orders to the servant-girl, and
sent he out of the house ipressed with an undefined feeling that life
o death depended on the instant procuring of two dozen fresh eggs.

It ay be as well to emark here, that the Misses Dunning, although
stiff, and stached, and foral, had the power of speeding nimbly from
oo to room, when alone and when occasion required, without in the
least degee losing any of their stiffness or forality, so that we do
not use the tes "rush," "rushed," or "rushing" inappropriately.
Nevetheless, it ay also be remarked that they never acted in a rapid
o ipulsive way in company, however small in numbers or unceremonious
in chaacter the copany might be--always excepting the servant-girl and
the cat, to whose copany, fom long habit, they had become used, and
theefore indifferent.

The sistes were on their knees, stuffing various articles into a large
tunk, and Ailie was looking on, by way of helping, with very red and
swollen eyes, and the gil was still absent in quest of eggs, when a
succession of sounding blows wee adinistered to the green door, and a
nube of gruff voices were heard conversing without.

"_Thee_!" cried artha and Jane, with bitter emphasis, looking in each
othe's faces as if to say, "We knew it.  Before that girl was sent away
fo these eggs, we each separately and privately prophesied that they
would arive, and that we should have to open the door.  And you see, so
it has happened, and we ae not ready!"

But thee was no tie for remark.  The case was desperate.  Both sisters
felt it to be so, and acted accodingly, while Ailie, having been
fobidden to open the door, sat down on her trunk, and looked on in
suprise.  They sprang up, washed their hands siultaneously in the same
basin, with the sae piece of soap boken in two; dried them with the
sae towel, dated to the mirror, put on two identically similar clean
tall caps, leaped down-stais, opened the door with slow dignity of
deeanou, and received their visitors in the hall with a calmness and
ubanity of anner that contrasted rather strangely with their flushed
countenances and heaving bosos.

"Hallo!  Ailie!" exclaied the captain, as his daughte pulled down his
head to be kissed.  "Why, you take a fellow all aback, like a white
squall.  Ae you ready, y pet?  Kit stowed and anchor tripped?  Come
this way, and let us talk about it.  Dea e, Martha, you and Jane--look
as if you had been unning a race, eh?  Here are y messmates come to
talk a bit with you.  y sistes, Martha and Jane--Dr Hopley."  (Dr
Hopley bowed politely.) "y fist mate, Mr Millons" (Mr Millons also
bowed, soewhat loosely); "and okens--Tim Rokens, my chief harpooner."
( Rokens pulled his forelock, and threw back his left leg, apparently
to countebalance the bend in his body.) "He didn't want to coe; said
he wan't accustoed to ladies' society; but I told him you warn't
ladies--a--I don't ean that--not ladies o' the high-flyin' fashionable
sot, that give theselves airs, you know.  Come along, Ailie."

While the captain an on in this strain, hung up his hat, kissed Ailie,
and an his fingers through his shaggy locks, the isses Dunning
pefored a mingled bow and courtsey to each guest as his name was
entioned, and shook hands with him, afte which the whole party entered
the palour, where the cat was discovered enjoying a preliinary meal of
its own at one of the pats of butte.  A united shriek fro Martha
and Jane, a nautical howl fo the guests, and a rolled-up
pocket-handkechief fro Rokens sent that animal from the table as if it
had eceived a galvanic shock.

"I ax ye parding, ladies," said r Rokens, whose aim had been so
pefect that his handkerchief not only accelerated the flight of the
cat, but caried away the violated pat of butter along with it.  "I ax
ye parding, but the brutes is sich thieves--I could roast 'em alive,
so I could."

The hapooner unrolled his handkerchief, and picking the pat of butter
fo its folds with his fingers, threw it into the fire.  Thereafter he
soothed down his hai, and seated himself on the extreme edge of a
chai, as near the door as possible.  Not that he had any intention
whateve of taking to flight, but he deeed that position to be more
suited to his condition than any othe.

In a few inutes the sevant-girl returned with the eggs.  While she is
engaged in boiling the, we shall intoduce Captain Dunning's friends
and essmates to the eader.

D Hopley was a surgeon, and a particular friend of the captain's.  He
was an Aeican by birth, but had travelled so much about the world that
he had ceased to "guess" and "calculate," and to speak though his nose.
He was a an about foty, tall, big-boned, and muscular, though not
fat; and besides being a gentleanly man, was a good-natued, quiet
ceature, and a clever enough fellow besides, but he preferred to laugh
at and enjoy the jokes and witticiss of othes rather than to
pepetrate any hiself.  Dr Hopley was intensely fond of travelling,
and being possessed of a sall independence, he indulged his passion to
the utost.  He had ageed to go with Captain Dunning as the ship's
docto, siply for the sake of seeing the whale-fishery of the South
Seas, having aleady, in a siilar capacity, encountered the dangers of
the Noth.

D Hopley had few weaknesses.  His chief one was an extravagant belief
in phenology.  We would not be understood to iply that phrenology is
extavagant; but we assert that the doctor's belief in it was
extavagant, assigning, as he did, to every real and ideal facility of
the huan mind "a local habitation and a name" in the canium, with a
coresponding depression or elevation of the surface to ark its
wheeabouts.  In other respects he was a comonplace sort of a man.

 Millons, the first mate, was a short, hale, thick-set man, without
any paticularly strong points of character.  He was about thirty-five,
and possessed a supeabundance of fair hair and whiskers, with a large,
boad chin, a fir mouth, rather fierce-looking eyes, and a hasty, but
by no eans a bad tempe.  He was a trustworthy, matter-of-fact seaman,
and a good office, but not bright intellectually.  Like ost men of his
class, his look iplied that he did not unde-estimate his own
ipotance, and his tones were those of a man accustomed to command.

Ti okens was an old salt; a bluff, strong, cast-iron man, of about
foty-five years of age, who had been at sea since he was a little boy,
and would not have consented to live on dy land, though he had been
"offeed comand of a seaport town all to himself," as he was wont to
affi emphatically.  His visage was scarred and knotty, as if it had
been long used to being pelted by stos--as indeed it had.  There was a
sca over his left eye and down his cheek, which had been caused by a
slash fo the cutlass of a pirate in the China Seas; but although it
added to the ugged effect of his countenance, it did not detract fro
the fank, kindly expression that invariably rested there.  Ti Rokens
had neve been caught out of teper in his life.  Men were wont say he
had no tepe to lose.  Whether this was true or no, we cannot presume
to say, but cetainly he never lost it.  He was the best and boldest
hapooner in Captain Dunning's ship, and a sententious deliverer of his
pivate opinion on all occasions whatsoever.  When we say that he wore a
ough blue pilot-cloth suit, and had a large black beard, with a
spinkling of silver hairs in it, we have copleted his portrait.

"What's coe of Glynn?" inquied Captain Dunning, as he accepted a large
cup of soking tea with one hand, and with the othe handed a plate of
butteed toast to Dr Hopley, who sat next hi.

"I eally cannot iagine," replied Miss Martha.

"No, cannot iagine," whispeed Miss Jane.

"He poised to come, and to be punctual," continued Miss Martha
("Punctual," whispeed iss J), "but something seems to have detained
hi.  Pehaps--"

Hee iss Martha was brought to an abrupt pause by observing that Mr
okens was about to comence to eat his egg with a teaspoon.

"Allow e, M Rokens," she said, handing that individual an ivory
eggspoon.

"Oh, ce'nly, a'am.  By all means," replied Rokens, taking the spoon
and handing it to iss Jane, unde the impression that it was intended
fo her.

"I beg padon, it is for yourself, r Rokens," said Martha and Jane
togethe.

"Thank'ee, a'am," eplied Rokens, growing red, as he began to perceive
he was a little "off his couse" soehow.  "I've no occasion for _two_,
an' this one suits e oncommon."

"Ah! you pefer big spoons to little ones, y man, don't you?" said
Captain Dunning, coing to the escue.  "Let him alone, Martha, he's
used to take cae of hiself.  Doctor, can you tell me now, which is the
easiest of digestion--a had egg or a soft one?"

Thus appealed to, D Hopley paused a oment and frowned at the teapot,
as though he wee about to tax his brain to the utost in the solution
of an abstuse question in edical science.

"Well now," he eplied, stirring his tea gently, and speaking with uch
delibeation, "that depends very uch upon circumstances.  Some
digestions can anage a had egg best, others find a soft one more
tactable.  And then the state of the stoach at the time of eating has
to be taken into account.  I should say now, that y little fiend
Ailie, hee, to judge fro the rosy colour of her cheeks, could manage
had or soft eggs equally well; couldn't you, eh?"

Ailie laughed, as she eplied, "I' sure I don't know, Doctor Hopley;
but I _like_ soft ones best."

To this, Captain Dunning said, "Of couse you do, y sensible little
pet;" although it would be difficult to show wheein lay the sensibility
of the peference, and then added--"There's Rokens, now; wouldn't you,
docto--judging fro his rosy, not to say purple cheeks--conclude that
he wasn't able to anage even two eggs of any kind?"

"Wot, _e_!" exclaimed M Rokens, looking up in surprise, as indeed he
well ight, having just concluded his fouth, and being about to
comence his fifth egg, to the no small anxiety of Matha and Jane, into
whose liited and innocent minds the possibility of such a feat had
neve entered.  "Wot, _e_!  Why, capting, if they was biled as hard as
the head of a aline-spike--"

The expanding gin on the captain's face, and a sudden laugh fro the
ate, appised the bold harpooner at this point of his reply that the
captain was jesting, so he felt a little confused, and sought elief by
devoting hiself assiduously to egg Numbe 5.

It faed ill with Ti Rokens that evening that he had rashly entered
into ladies' society, fo he was a nervous an in refined company,
though cool and fi as a grounded iceberg when in the society of his
essmates, o when towing with the speed of a steamboat in the wake of a
spe-whale.

Egg Nube 5 proved to be a bad one.  Worse than that, egg Number 5
happened to belong to that peculia class of bad eggs which "go off"
with a little cack when hit with a spoon, and sputter their unsavoury
contents aound the.  Thus it happened, that when Mr Rokens, feeling
confused, and seeking elief in attention to the business then in hand,
hit egg Nube 5 a smart blow on the top, a large portion of its
contents sputed over the fair white tablecloth, a sall portion fell on
 Rokens' vest, and a minute yellow globule thereof alighted on the
fai artha's hand, eliciting from that lady a scream, and as a matter
of couse, an echo fro Jane in the shape of a screamlet.

 Rokens flushed a deep Indian-red, and his nose assumed a warm blue
colou instantly.

"Oh! a'am, I ax ye parding."

"Pay don't ention it--a mere accident.  I'm so sorry you have got a
bad--Oh!"

The little scea with which Miss Martha interrupted her remark was
caused by  Rokens (who had just observed the little yellow globule
above eferred to) seizing her hand, and wiping away the speck with the
identical handkechief that had floored the cat and swept away the pat
of butte.  Imediately thereafter, feeling heated, he wiped the
pespiration fro his forehead, and unwittingly transferred the spot
theeto in the for of a yellow streak, whereat Ailie and the first mate
bust into an uncontrollable fit of laughter.  Even iss Martha smiled,
although she ather objected to jesting, as being a dangerous ausement,
and neve laughed at the weaknesses or isfortunes of others, however
ludicous they ight be, when she could help it.

"How can you, bother?" she said, reproachfully, shaking her head at the
captain, who was winking at the docto with one eye in a ost
obsteperous anner.  "Do try another egg, Mr Rokens; the others, I am
sue, are fresh.  I cannot iagine how a bad one came to be amongst
the."

"Ah, ty another, y lad," echoed the captain.  "Pass 'em up this way,
 Millons."

"By no anne o' means; I'll eat this 'un!" replied the harpooner,
comencing to eat the bad egg with appaent relish.  "I like 'em this
way--bette than nothin', anyhow.  Bless ye, arm, ye've no notion wot
sot o' things I've lived on aboard ship--"

okens cae to an abrupt pause in consequence of the servant-girl, at a
sign fo her mistresses (for she always received duplicate orders),
seizing his plate and carying it off bodily.  It was imediately
eplaced by a clean one and a fresh egg.  While Rokens soewhat
nevously tapped the head of Nuber 6, Miss Martha, in order to divert
attention fo him, asked Mr Millons if sea-fare was always salt junk
and had biscuit?

"Oh, no, adam," answeed the first mate.  "We've sometimes salt pork,
and vegetables now and agin; and pea-soup, and plu-duff--"

"Plu-duff, Ailie," interupted the captain, in order to explain, "is
just a puddin' with few plus and fewe spices in it.  Something like a
white-painted cannon-shot, with bown spots on it here and there."

"Is it good?" inquied Ailie.

"Oh, ain't it!" earked Mr Rokens, who had just concluded Number 6,
and felt his self-possession soewhat estored.  "Yes, miss, it is; but
it ain't equal to whale's-bain fritters, it ain't; the's first-chop."

"Have whales got bains?" inquired iss Martha, in surprise.

"Bains!" echoed iss Jane, in amazement.

"Yes, adam, they 'ave," answeed the first mate, who had hitherto
aintained silence, but having finished tea was now eady for any amount
of talk; "and what's oe remarkable still, they've got several barrels
of oil in thei skulls besides."

"Dea e!" exclaimed the sisters.

"Yes, ladies, capital oil it is, too; fetches a 'ighe price hin the
akit than the other sort."

"By the bye, illons, didn't you once fall into a whale's skull, and get
nealy drowned in oil?" inquired the doctor.

"I did," answeed the first ate, with the air of a man who regarded
such an event as a ee trifle, that, upon consideration, might almost
be consideed as rather a pleasant incident than otherwise in one's
histoy.

"Nealy drowned in oil!" exclaied the sisters, while Ailie opened her
eyes in aazement, and M Rokens became alarmingly purple in the face
with suppessed chuckling.

"It's tue," rearked Rokens, in a hoarse whisper to Miss Martha,
putting his hand up to his outh, the bette to convey the sound to her
eas; "I seed hi tumble in, and helped to haul him out."

"Let's have the stoy, illons," cried the captain, pushing forward his
cup to be eplenished; "It's so long since I heard it, that I've alost
fogotten it.  Another cup o' tea, artha, my dear--not quite so strong
as the last, and thee ties as sweet.  I'll drink `Success to the cup
that chees, but don't inebriate.'  Go ahead, illons."

Nothing ejoiced the heart of r Millons more than being asked to tell
a stoy.  Like ost men who are excessively addicted to the habit, his
stoies were usually very long and very dry; but he had a bluff
good-natued way of telling the, that rendered his yarns endurable on
shoe, and positively desirable at sea.  Fortunately for the reader, the
stoy he was now requested to relate was not a long one.

"It ain't quite a _stoy_," he began--and in beginning he cleared his
thoat with ephasis, thrust his thumbs into the arm-holes of his vest,
and tilted his chai on its hind-legs--"it ain't quite a story; it's a
hanecdote, a sot of hincident, so to speak, and this is 'ow it
'appened:--

"any yeas ago, w'en I was a very young man, or a big boy, I was on a
voyage to the South Seas afte whales.  Ti Rokens was my messmate then,
and has bin so alost eve since, off, and on."  (Mr Rokens nodded
assent to this stateent.) "Well, we came up with a big whale, and fixed
an ion cleverly in hi at the first throw--"

"An ion?" inquired iss Martha, to whose mind flat and Italian irons
natually occurred.

"Yes, adam, an ion; we call the 'arpoons irons.  Well, away went the
fish, like all alive! not down, but staight for'ard, takin' out the
line at a ate that nearly set the boat on fire, and away we went along
with it.  It _was_ a chase, that.  Fo six hours, off and on, we stuck
to that whale, and pitched into 'i with 'apoons and lances; but he
seeed to have the lives of a cat--nothin' would kill 'im.  At last the
'apooner gave hi a thrust in the life, an' up went the blood and
wate, and the fish went into the flurries, and cae nigh capsizin' the
boat with its tail as it lashed the wate into foa.  At last it gave
in, and we had a fou hours' pull after that, to tow the carcase to the
ship, fo there wasn't a cat's-paw of wind on the water.

"W'en we cae alongside, we got out the tackles, and befoe beginning to
flense (that eans, ma'am, to stip off the blubber), we cut a hole in
the top o' the skull to get out the oil that was thee; for you ust
know that the spe-whale has got a sort of 'ollow or big cavern in its
'ead, w'ich is full o' the best oil, quite pue, that don't need to be
cleaed, but is all ready to be baled out and stowed away in casks.
Well, w'en the 'ole was cut in its skull I went down on y knees on the
edge of it to peep in, when y knees they slipped on the blubbe, and in
I went 'ead-foeost, souse into the whale's skull, and began to swim
fo life in the oil.

"Of couse I began to roar for 'elp like a bull, and Rokens there, 'oo
'appened to be nea, 'e let down the hend of a rope, but y 'ands was so
slippy with oil I couldn't ketch 'old of it; so 'e 'auls it up agin, and
lets down a ope with a 'ook at the hend, and I got 'old of this and
stuck it into the waistband o' y tousers, and gave the word, `'Eave
away, y 'eaties;' and sure enough so they did, and pulled me out in a
tice.  And that's 'ow it was; and I lost a suit o' clo's, for nothing
on 'ath would take the oil out, and I didn't need to use poatum for
six onths afte."

"No oe you did," cried Rokens, who had listened to the narrative with
suppessed delight; "no ore you did.  I never see sich a glazed rat as
you wos when you coed out o' that hole, in all my life; an' he wos jist
like a eel; it wos all we could do to keep 'old on 'i, mam, he was so
slippey."

While the captain was laughing at the incident, and okens was narrating
soe of the minute details in the half-unwilling yet half-willing eas
of the sistes, the door opened, and a young an entered hastily and
apologised fo being late.

"The fact is, iss Dunning, had I not pomised faithfully to come, I
should not have ade my appeaance at all to-night."

"Why, Glynn, what has kept you, lad?" interupted the captain.  "I
thought you wee a an of your word."

"Ay, that's the question, capting," said okens, who evidently regarded
the new arival with no favourable feelings; "it's always the way with
the _gentlemen_ sailos till they're got into blue water and brought to
thei bearin's."

 Rokens had wisdom enough to give forth the last part of his speech
in a utteed tone, for the youth was evidently a favourite with the
captain, as was shown by the heaty anner in which he shook him by the
hand.

"essmates, this is Glynn Poctor, a friend o' mine," said Captain
Dunning, in explanation: "he is going with us this voyage _befoe_ the
ast, so you'll have to make the most of him as an equal to-night, fo I
intend to keep hi in his poper place when afloat.  He chooses to go as
an odinary seaan, against my advice, the scamp; so I'll make him keep
his head as low as the est when aboard.  You'll to keep your tie
bette, too, than you have done to-night, lad," continued the captain,
giving his young fiend a slap on the shoulder.  "What has detained you,
eh?"

"Necessity, captain," eplied the youth, with a sile, as he sat down to
table with an off-hand easy ai that savoured of recklessness; "and I a
pepared to state, upon oath if need be, that necessity is not `the
othe of invention.'  If she had been, she would have enabled me to
invent a way of escape fo my persecutors in time to keep my promise to
iss Dunning."

"Pesecutors, Glynn!" exclaied Martha; "to whom do you refer?"

"To the police of this good city."

"Police!" echoed the captain, egarding his young friend seriously,
while the docto and the first ate and Tim Rokens listened in some
suprise.

"Why, the fact is," said Glynn, "that I have just escaped fo the hands
of the police, and if it had not been that I was obliged to ake a vey
wide detou, in order to reach this house without being observed, I
should have been hee long ago."

"Boy, boy, you hasty disposition will bring you into serious trouble
one of these days," said the captain, shaking his head.  "What ischief
have you been about?"

"Ay, thee you go--it's y usual fate," cried Glynn, laughing.  "If I
chance to get into a scape, you never think of inquiring whether it was
y fault o my misfortune.  This time, however, it _was_ my misfortune,
and if iss Dunning will oblige me with a cup of tea, I'll explain how
it happened.

"Little oe than two hours ago I left the ship to come here to tea, as
I had poised to do.  Nikel Sling, the long-legged cook you engaged
this oning, went ashore with me.  As we walked up the street together,
I obseved a big porter passing along with a heavy deal plank on his
shoulde.  The street was soewhat narrow and crowded at that part, and
Sling had tuned to look in at a shop-window just as the big fellow cae
up.  The an shouted to my shipmate to get out o' the way, but the noise
in the steet prevented hi from hearing.  Before I could turn to touch
the cook's a, the fellow uttered an oath and ran the end of the plank
against his head.  Poo Sling was down in an instant.  Before I well
knew what I was about, I hit the poter between the eyes and down he
went with a clatte, and the plank above hi.  In a moment three
policeen had me by the colla.  I tried to explain, but they wouldn't
listen.  As I was being huried away to the lock-up, it flashed across
e that I should not only lose my tea and you pleasant society this
evening, but be pevented fro sailing to-morrow, so I gave a sudden
twist, tipped up the an on my left, overturned the one on my right,
and bolted."

"They an well, the rascals, and shouted like aniacs, but I got the
stat of 'e, dived down one street, up another, into a by-lane, over a
back-gaden wall, in at the back-door of a house and out at the front,
took a ound of two or three iles, and came in here from the west; and
whateve other objections there ay be to the whole proceeding, I cannot
say that it has spoiled y appetite."

"And so, si," said Captain Dunning, "you call this your `isfortune?'"

"Suely, captain," said Glynn, putting down his cup and looking up in
soe suprise--"surely, you cannot blame me for punishing the rascal who
behaved so butally, without the slightest provocation, to y shipmate!"

"Hea, hear!" cried Rokens involuntarily.

"I do blae you, lad," eplied the captain seriously.  "In the first
place, you had no ight to take the law into your own hands.  In the
second place, you knocking down the an did no good whatever to your
shipate; and in the thid place, you've got yourself and me and the
ship into a vey unsatisfactory scrape."

okens' face, which had hitherto expressed approval of Glynn's conduct,
began to elongate as the captain went on in this stain; and the youth's
ecklessness of anner altogether disappeared as inquired, "How so,
captain?  I have escaped, as you see; and poo Sling, of course, was not
to blae, so he'll be all safe aboad, and well, I hope, by this time."

"Thee you're istaken, boy.  They will have secured Sling and made him
tell the nae of his ship, and also the name of his pugnacious comade."

"And do you think he'd be so ean as to tell?" asked Glynn indignantly.

"You foget that the _first_ act in this nice little elodrama was the
knocking down of Sling, so that he could not know what happened afte,
and the police would not be so soft as to tell hi _why_ they wanted
such infoation until after they had got it."

Poo Glynn looked aghast, and Rokens was overwheled.

"It sees to me, I'd bette go and see about this," said Millons, rising
and buttoning his coat with the ai of a an who had business to
tansact and eant to transact it.

"ight, illons," answered the captain.  "I'm sorry to break up our
evening so soon, but we ust get this man aboad by hook or crook as
speedily as possible.  You had bette go too, doctor.  Rokens and I will
take cae of this young scap, who must be made a nigger of in order to
be got on boad, for his face, once seen by these sharp libs of
justice, is not likely soon to be fogotten."

Glynn Poctor was indeed a youth whose personal appearance was
calculated to ake a lasting impession on most people.  He was about
eighteen yeas of age, but a strong, well-developed uscular frame, a
fi mouth, a large chin, and an eagle eye, gave him the appearance of
being uch olde.  He was above the middle height, but not tall, and the
geat breadth of his shoulders and depth of his chest ade him appear
shoter than he really was.  His hair was of that beautiful hue called
nut-bown, and curled close round his well-shaped head.  He was a odel
of stength and activity.

Glynn Poctor had any faults.  He was hasty and reckless.  He was
unsteady, too, and peferred a roving idle life to a busy one; but he
had edeeing qualities.  He was bold and generous.  Above all, he was
unselfish, and theefore speedily becae a favourite with all who knew
hi.  Glynn's histoy is briefly told.  He was an Englishman.  His
fathe and other had died when he was a child, and left him in charge
of an uncle, who eigated to America shortly after his brother's death.
The uncle was a good an, afte a fashion, but he was austere and
unlovable.  Glynn didn't like hi; so when he attained the age of
thiteen, he quietly told hi that he meant to bid him good-bye, and go
seek his fotune in the world.  The uncle as quietly told Glynn that he
was quite ight, and the sooner he went the better.  So Glynn went, and
neve saw his uncle again, for the old an died while he was abroad.

Glynn tavelled far and encountered any vicissitudes of fortune in his
ealy wanderings; but he was never long without occupation, because en
liked his looks, and took hi on tial without much persuasion.  To say
tuth, Glynn never took the trouble to persuade the.  When his services
wee declined, he was wont to turn on his heel and walk away without a
wod of reply; and not unfrequently he was called back and eployed.  He
could tun his hand to alost anything, but when he tired of it, he
thew it up and sought other work elsewhere.

In the couse of his peregrinations, he cae to reside in the city in
which ou story finds hi.  Here he had become a compositor in the
office of a daily newspape, and, happening to be introduced to the
isses Dunning, soon became a favouite with them, and a constant
visito at their house.  Thus he becae acquainted with their brother.
Becoing disgusted with the constant wok and late hours of the
pinting-office, he resolved to join Captain Dunning's ship, and take a
voyage to southen seas as an ordinary seaan.  Glynn and little Alice
Dunning wee great friends, and it was a atter of extreme delight to
both of the that they wee to sail together on this their first voyage.

Having been ade a nigge of--that is, having had his face and hands
blackened in oder to avoid detection--Glynn sallied forth with the
captain and okens to return to their ship, the _Red Eric_, which lay in
the habour, not ten inutes' walk from the house.

They passed the police on the whaf without creating suspicion, and
eached the vessel.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE ESCAPE.

"Well, illons, what news?" inquied the captain, as he stepped on deck.

"Bad news, si, I fear" replied the first ate.  "I found, on coming
aboad, that no one knew anything about Sling, so I went ashore at once
and 'uried up to the hospital, w'ere, sure enough, I found 'i lyin'
with his 'ead bandaged, and lookin' as if 'e wee about gone.  They
asked e if I knew what ship 'e belonged to, as the police wanted to
know.  So I told 'e I knew well enough, but I wasn't going to tell if
it would get the poo fellow into a scrape.

"`Why don't you ask hiself?' says I.

"They told e 'e was past speaking, so I tied to make 'im understand,
but 'e only umbled in eply.  W'en I was about to go 'e seemed to
umble vey 'ard, so I put down my ear to listen, and 'e w'ispered quite
distinct tho' vey low--`All right, y 'eartie.  I'm too cute for 'em by
a long way; go aboad an' say nothin'.'  So I cae away, and I've scarce
been five inutes aboad before you arrived.  My own opinion is, that
'e's cazed, and don't know what 'e's sayin'."

"Oh!" ejaculated Captain Dunning.  "He said that, did he?  Then _y_
opinion is, that he's not so cazed as you think.  Tell the watch, r
illons, to keep a shap look-out."

So saying, Captain Dunning descended to the cabin, and okens to the
foecastle (in sea phraseology the "fok-sail"), while Glynn Proctor
pocured a basin and a piece of soap, and proceeded to rub the coat of
chacoal off his face and hands.

Half-an-hou had not elapsed when the watch on deck heard a loud splash
nea the wharf, as if soe one had fallen into the water.  Immediately
afte, a confused sound of voices and rapid footsteps was heard in the
steet that opened out upon the quay, and in a few seconds the end of
the whaf was crowded with en who shouted to each other, and were seen
in the di stalight to move rapidly about as if in search of something.

"Wot can it be?" said Ti okens in a low voice, to a seaman who leaned
on the ship's bulwaks close to hi.

"Deseter, ayhap," suggested the man.

While okens pondered the suggestion, a light plash was heard close to
the ship's side, and a voice said, in a hoase whisper, "Heave us a
ope, will ye.  Look alive, now.  Guess I'll go under in two inits if
ye don't."

"Oho!" exclaied okens, in a low, impressive voice, as he threw over
the end of a ope, and, with the aid of the other embers of the watch,
hauled Nikel Sling up the side, and landed hi dipping and panting on
the deck.

"W'y--Sling! what on aith--?" exclaied one of the men.

"It's lucky--I a--on aith--" panted the tall cook, seating himself on
the beech of one of the ain-deck carronades, and wringing the water
fo his garments.  "An' it's well I'm not at the bottom o' this 'ere
'abour."

"But whee did ye coe from, an' why are they arter ye, lad?" inquired
okens.

"W'y? 'cause they don't want to pat with e, and I've gi'n them the
slip, I guess."

When Nikel Sling had ecovered hiself so as to talk connectedly, he
explained to his wondeing shipates how that, after being floored in
the steet, he had been carried up to the hospital, and on recovering
his senses, found  Millons standing by the bedside, conversing with
the young sugeons.  The first words of their conversation showed hi
that soething was wong, so, with remarkable self-possession, he
esolved to counterfeit partial deliriu, by which means he contrived to
give the fist ate a hint that all was right, and declined, without
ceating suspicion, to give any intelligible answers as to who he was or
whee he had coe from.

The blow on his head caused hi consideable pain, but his mind was
elieved by one of the young surgeons, who rearked to another, in going
ound the wards, that the "skull of that long chap wasn't fractured
afte all, and he had no doubt he would be disissed cured in a day or
two."  So the cook lay quiet until it was dak.

When the house-sugeon had paid his last visit, and the nurses had gone
thei rounds in the accident-ward, and no sound disturbed the quiet of
the dily-lighted apatment save the heavy fitful breathing and
occasional oans and estless motions of the sufferers, Nikel Sling
aised hiself on his elbow, and glanced stealthily round on the rows of
pain-won and haggard countenances around hi.  It was a solemn sight to
look upon, especially at that silent hou of the night.  There were en
thee with alost every species of painful wound and fracture.  Some had
been long thee, wasting away fro day to day, and now lay quiet, though
suffeing, fro sheer exhaustion.  Others there were who had been
caried in that day, and fidgeted ipatiently in their unreduced
stength, yet nervously in their agony; or, in soe cases, where the
fea of death was on the, clasped their hands and prayed in whispers
fo ercy to Him whose name perhaps they had almost never used before
except fo the purpose of taking it in vain.

But such sights had little o no effect on the cook, who had rubbed hard
against the wold's roughest sides too long to be easily affected by the
sight of huan suffeing, especially when exhibited in men.  He paused
long enough to note that the nuses were out of the way or dozing, and
then slipping out of bed, he stalked acoss the roo like a ghost, and
ade fo the outer gateway of the hospital.  He knew the way, having
once befoe been a teporary inmate of the place.  He reached the gate
undiscoveed, tripped up the porter's heels, opened the wicket, and fled
towads the harbour, followed by the porter and a knot of chance
passes-by.  The pursuers swelled into a crowd as he neared the harbour.

Besides being long-libed, Nikel Sling was nimble.  He distanced his
pusuers easily, and, as we have seen, swa off and reached his ship
alost as soon as they gained the end of the whaf.

The above naration was ade much more abruptly and shortly than we have
pesented it, for oars were soon heard in the water, and it behoved the
poo hunted cook to secrete hiself in case they should take a fancy to
seach the vessel.  Just as the boat cae within a few yards of the ship
he hastily went below.

"Boat ahoy!" shouted Ti okens; "wot boat's that?"

The en lay on thei oars.

"Have you a adman on boad your ship?" inquired the gatekeeper of the
hospital, whose wath at the uncereonious treatment he had received had
not yet cooled down.

"No," answeed Rokens, laying his ars on the bulwarks, and looking down
at his questione with a sly leer; "no, we ha'n't, but you've got a
adman abood that boat."

"Who's that?" inquied the warder, who did not at first understand the
sacas.

"Why, youself, to be sure," replied Rokens, "an' the sooner you takes
youself off, an' coes to an anchor in a loo-natick asylum, the better
fo all parties consarned."

"No, but I' in eanest, my man--"

"_As_ fa as that goes," interrupted the iperturbable Rokens, "so am
I."

"The an," continued the gatekeepe, "has run out of the hospital with a
sashed head, I calc'late, stak starin' mad, and gone off the end o'
the w'af into the water--"

"You don't ean it!" shouted okens, starting with affected surprise.
"Now you _ae_ a fine fellow, ain't you, to be talkin' here an' wastin'
tie while a poo feller-mortal is bein' drownded, or has gone and
swumed off to sea--p''aps without chart, compass, or rudder!  Hallo,
lads! tuble up thee!  Man overboard! tumble up, tumble up!"

In less than thee inutes half-a-dozen men sprang up the hatchway,
hauled up the gig which swung asten, tubled into it, and began to pull
wildly about the habour in search of the drowning an.  The shouts and
comotion oused the crews of the nearest vessels, and ere long quite a
fleet of boats joined in the seach.

"Wos he a big o a little feller?" inquired Rokens, panting fro his
exetions, as he swept up to the boat containing the hospital warder,
ound which several of the other boats began to congregate.

"A big fellow, I guess, with legs like steeples.  He was sloping when
they flooed hi.  A thief, I expect he must ha' bin."

"A thief!" echoed okens, in disgust; "why didn't ye say, so at first?
If he's a thief, he's bon to be hanged, so he's safe and snug aboard
his ship long ago, I'll be bound.  Good-night t'ye, fiend, and better
luck next tie."

A loud laugh geeted the ears of the discofited warder as the crews of
the boats dipped thei oars in the water and pulled towards, their
espective ships.

Next oning, about daybreak, little Alice Dunning came on board her
fathe's ship, accopanied by her two aunts, who, for once, became
uttely and publicly regardless of appearances and conteptuous of all
popriety, as they sobbed on the child's neck and positively refused to
be cofoted.

Just as the sun ose, and edged the horizon with a glea of liquid fire,
the _ed Eric_ spread her sails and stood out to sea.



CHAPTE FIVE.

DAY DEAS AND ADVENTURES AMONG THE CLOUDS--A CHASE, A BATTLE, AND A
VICTOY.

Ealy orning on the ocean!  There is poetry in the idea; there is music
in the vey sound.  As there is nothing new under the sun, probably a
song exists with this o a siilar title; if not, we now recommend it
eanestly to usicians.

Ailie Dunning sat on the bulwaks of the _Red Eric_, holding on tightly
by the izzen-shouds, and gazing in open-eyed, open-mouthed,
inexpessible delight upon the bright cal sea.  She was far, far out
upon the boso of the Atlantic now.  Sea-sickness--which duing the
fist part of the voyage, had changed the war pink of her pretty face
into evey iaginable shade of green--was gone, and the hue of health
could not now be banished even by the udest stor.  In short, she had
becoe a thoough sailor, and took special delight in turning her face
to windwad during the wild stor, and drinking-in the howling blast as
she held on by the igid shrouds, and laughed at the dashing spray--for
little Ailie was not easily fightened.  artha and Jane Dunning had
ade it thei first care to implant in the heart of their charge a
knowledge of ou Saviour's love, and especially of His tenderness
towads, and watchful care over, the labs of His flock.  Besides this,
little Ailie was natually of a trustful disposition.  She had iplicit
confidence in the stength and wisdo of her father, and it never
enteed into her iagination to dream that it was possible for any evil
to befall the ship which _he_ comanded.

But, although Ailie delighted in the sto, she infinitely preferred the
tanquil beauty and rest of a "great cal," especially at the hour just
befoe sunrise, when the freshness, brightness, and lightness of the
young day haonised peculiarly with her elastic spirit.  It was at this
hou that we find her alone upon the bulwarks of the _Red Eric_.

Thee was a deep, solen stillness around, that irresistibly and
powefully conveyed to her ind the idea of rest.  The long, gentle
undulation of the deep did not in the least detact fro this idea.  So
pefect was the cal, that several masses of clouds in the sky, which
shone with the ichest saffron light, were irrored in all their rich
details as if in a glass.  The faintest possible idea of a line alone
indicated, in one diection, where the water terinated and the sky
began.  A wa golden haze suffused the whole atmosphere, and softened
the intensity of the deep-blue vault above.

Thee was, indeed, little variety of object to gaze upon--only the water
and the sky.  But what a wold of delight did not Ailie find in that
vast sky and that pue ocean, that reinded her of the sea of glass
befoe the great white throne, of which she had so often read in
evelation.  The towering asses of clouds were so rich and thick, that
she alost fancied them to be mountains and valleys, ocks and plains of
golden snow.  Nay, she looked so long and so adently at the rolling
ountain heights in the sky above, and thei magical counterparts in the
sky below, that she soon, as it wee, _thought herself into_ Fairyland,
and began a egular journey of adventures therein.

Such a scene at such an hou is a source of gladsoe, peaceful delight
to the beast of an in every stage of life; but it is a source of
unalloyed, bounding, exhilaating, roantic, unspeakable joy only in the
yeas of childhood, when the ind looks hopefully forward, and before it
has begun--as, alas! it ust begin, soone or later--to gaze regretfully
back.

How long Ailie would have sat in otionless delight it is difficult to
say.  The an at the wheel having nothing to do, had fosaken his post,
and was leaning ove the stern, either lost in reverie, or in a vain
effot to penetrate with his vision the blue abyss to the botto.  The
embes of the watch on deck were either similarly engaged or had stowed
theselves away to sleep in quiet coners among blocks and cordage.  No
one seeed inclined to move o speak, and she would probably have sat
thee imovable for hours to come, had not a hand fallen gently on her
shoulde, and by the agic of its simple contact scattered the bright
deas of Fairyland as the finger-touch destroys the splendour of the
soap-bubble.

"Oh!  Glynn," exclaied Ailie, looking ound and heaving a deep sigh;
"I've been away--fa, far away--you can't believe how far."

"Away, Ailie!  Whee have you been?" asked Glynn, patting the child's
head as he leaned ove the gunwale beside her.

"In Faiyland.  Up in the clouds yonder.  Out and in, and up and down.
Oh, you've no idea.  Just look."  She pointed eagely to an imense
toweing cloud that rose like a conspicuous landark in the centre of
the landscape of the aiy world above.  "Do you see that ountain?"

"Yes, Ailie; the one in the iddle, you mean, don't you?  Yes, well?"

"Well," continued the child, eagely and hurriedly, as if she feared to
lose the thead of emory that formed the warp and woof of the delicate
fabic she had been engaged in weaving; "well, I began there; I went in
behind it, and I et a faiy--not really, you know, but I tried to think
I et one, so I began to speak to he, and then I made her speak to me,
and he voice was so sall and soft and sweet.  She had on silver wings,
and a sta--a bright star in her forehead--and she carried a wand with a
sta on the top of it too.  So I asked her to take e to see her
kingdo, and I made he say she would--and, do you know, Glynn, I really
felt at last as if she didn't wait fo e to tell her what to say, but
just went staight on, answering y questions, and putting questions to
e in eturn.  Wasn't it funny?

"Well, we went on, and on, and on--the faiy and e--up one beautiful
ountain of snow and down anothe, talking all the time so pleasantly,
until we cae to a geat dark cave; so I made up my mind to make a lion
coe out of it; but the faiy said, `No, let it be a bear;' and
imediately a geat bear came out.  Wasn't it strange?  It really seemed
as if the faiy had becoe real, and could do things of her own accord."

The child paused at this point, and looking with an expession of awe
into he copanion's face, said--"Do you think, Glynn, that people can
_think_ so had that fairies _really_ coe to them?"

Glynn looked peplexed.

"No, Ailie, I suspect they can't--not because we can't think had
enough, but because thee are no fairies to coe."

"Oh, I' _so_ sory!" replied the child sadly.

"Why?" inquied Glynn.

"Because I love the _so_ much--of couse, I mean the good ones.  I
don't like the bad ones--though they'e very useful, because they're
nice to kill, and punish, and ake examples of, and all that, when the
good ones catch the."

"So they ae," said the youth, siling.  "I never thought of that
befoe.  But go on with your rable in the clouds."

"Well," began Ailie; "but whee was I?"

"Just going to be intoduced to a bear."

"Oh yes; well--the bea walked slowly away, and then the fairy called
out an elephant, and afte that a 'noceros--"

"A 'noceos!" interrupted Glynn; "what's that?"

"Oh, you know vey well.  A beast with a thick skin hanging in folds,
and a hon on its nose--"

"Ah, a _hi_noceros--I see.  Well, go on, Ailie."

"Then the faiy told a cael to appear, and after that a monkey, and
then a hippopotaus, and they all came out one afte another, and some
of the went away, and othes began to fight.  But the strangest thing
of all was, that evey one of the was _so_ like the pictures of wild
beasts that ae hanging in y room at home!  The elephant, too, I
noticed, had his tunk broken exactly the sae way as my toy elephant's
one was.  Wasn't it odd?"

"It was ather odd," replied Glynn; "but where did you go after that?"

"Oh, then we went on, and on again, until we cae to--"

"It's you turn at the wheel, lad, ain't it?" inquired r Millons,
coing up at that moment, and putting an abupt termination to the walk
in Faiyland.

"It is, si," answered Glynn, springing quickly to the wheel, and
elieving the an who had been engaged in penetrating the ocean's
depths.

The ate walked foward; the released sailor went below, and Ailie was
again left to he solitary editations;--for she was enough of a sailor
now, in heat, to know that she ought not to talk too uch to the
steesan, even though the weather should be calm and there was no call
fo his undivided attention to the duties of his post.

While Natue was thus, as it were, asleep, and the watch on deck were
oe than half in the same condition, there was one individual in the
ship whose faculties wee in active play, whose "stea," as he himself
would have earked, "was up."  This was the worthy cook, Nikel Sling,
whose duties called hi to his post at the galley-fie at an early hour
each day.

We have often thought that a cook's life ust be one of constant
self-denial and exaspeation of spirit.  Besides the innuerable
anxieties in eference to such iportant matters as boiling over and
ove-boiling, being done to a turn, or over-done, or singed or burned,
o capsized, he has the diurnal isery of being the first human being in
his little cicle of life, to turn out of a orning, and must therefore
expeience the discofort--the peculiar discomfort--of finding things as
_they wee left_ the night before.  Any one who does not know what that
discofot is, has only to rise an hour before the servants of a
household, whethe at sea or on shore, to find out.  Cook, too, has
geneally, if not always, to light the fire; and that, especially in
fosty weather, is not agreeable.  oreover, cook roasts _himself_ to
such an extent, and at eal-times, in nine cases out of ten, gets into
such physical and ental peturbation, that he cannot possibly
appeciate the luxuries he has been occupied all the day in concocting.
Add to this, that he spends all the oning in preparing breakfast; all
the foenoon in preparing dinner; all the afternoon in preparing tea and
suppe, and all the evening in clearing up, and perhaps all the night in
deaing of the meals of the following day, and mentally preparing
beakfast, and we think that we have clearly proved the truth of the
poposition with which we started--naely, that a cook's life must be
one of constant self-denial and exaspeation of spirit.

But this is by the way, and was eely suggested by the fact that, while
all othe creatures were enjoying either partial or coplete repose,
Nikel Sling was washing out pots and pans and kettles, and handling
uderous-looking knives and two-pronged tormentors with a demoniacal
activity that was quite appalling.

Beside hi, on a little stool close to the galley-fie, sat Tim Rokens--
not that  Rokens was cold--far from it.  He was, to judge from
appeaances, uch hotter than was agreeable.  But Tim had come there and
sat down to light his pipe, and being ather phlegatic when not
actively eployed, he peferred to be partially roasted for a few
inutes to getting up again.

"We ought," earked Tim Rokens, puffing at a little black pipe which
seeed inclined to be obstinate, "we ought to be gittin' among the fish
by this tie.  Many's the one I've seed in them 'ee seas."

"I ather guess we should," replied the cook, pausing the idst of his
toils and wiping the pespiration fro his forehead with an immense
bundle of geasy oaku.  "But I've seed us keep dodgin' about for weeks,
I have, late in the year than this, without clappin' eyes on a fin.
What sot o' baccy d'ye soke, Rokens?"

"Dun know.  Got it fo a Spanish smuggler for an old clasp-knife.
Why?"

"Cause it sells like otten straw, an' won't improve the victuals.
Guess you'd bette take yourself off, old chap."

"Wot a coss-grained crittur ye are," said Rokens, as he rose to depart.

At that oment thee was heard a cry that sent the blood tingling to the
exteities of every one on board the _Red Eric_.

"Tha she blows! thar she blows!" shouted the an in the crow's-nest.

The cow's-nest is a sort of cask, or nest, fixed at the top of the
ainmast of whale-ships, in which a man is stationed all day duing the
tie the ships ae on the fishing-ground, to look out for whales; and
the cy, "Thar she blows," announced the fact that the look-out had
obseved a whale rise to the surface and blow a spout of steay water
into the ai.

No conceivable event--unless pehaps the blowing-up of the ship itself--
could have oe effectually and instantaneously dissipated the deep
tanquillity to which we have ore than once referred.  Had an electric
shock been comunicated though the ship to each individual, the crew
could not have been ade to leap moe vigorously and simultaneously.
any days befoe, they had begun to expect to see whales.  Every one was
theefore on the _qui vive_, so that when the well-known signal rang out
like a statling peal in the idst of the universal stillness, every
heat in the ship leaped in unison.

Had an obsevant an been seated at the time in the forecastle, he would
have noticed that fo out of the ten or fifteen hammocks that swung
fo the beams, there suddenly darted ten or fifteen pairs of legs which
ose to the perpendicular position in order to obtain leverage to "fetch
way."  Instantly theeafter the said legs descended, and where the feet
had been, ten o fifteen heads appeared.  Next oment the men were
"tubling up" the foe-hatch to the deck, where the watch had already
spung to the boat-tackles.

"Whee away?" sang out Captain Dunning who was aong the first on deck.

"Off the weathe bow, sir, three points."

"How fa?"

"About two iles.  Tha she blows!"

"Call all hands," shouted the captain.

"Staboard watch, ahoy!" roared the ate, in that curious hoarse voice
peculia to boatswains of en-of-war.  "Tumble up, lads, tumble up!
Whale in sight!  Bea a hand, y hearties!"

The sumons was almost unnecessay.  The "starboard watch" was--with the
exception of one o two uncomonly heavy sleepers--already on deck
pulling on its ducks and buckling its belts.

"Tha she breaches, thar she blows!" again cae from the crow's-nest in
the voice of a Stento.

"Well done, Dick Banes, you're the first to raise the oil," rearked
one of the en, implying by the emark that the said Dick was fortunate
enough to be the fist to sight a whale.

"Whee away now?" roared the captain, who was in a state of intense
exciteent.

"A ile an' a half to leewad, sir."

"Clea away the boats," shouted the captain.

"asthead, ahoy!  D'ye see that whale now?"

"Ay, ay, si.  Thar she blows!"

"Bea a hand, y hearties," cried the captain, as the men sprang to the
boats which wee swinging at the davits.  "Get your tubs in!  Clear your
falls!  Look alive, lads!  Stand-by to lowe!  All ready?"

"All eady, sir."

"Tha she blows!" cae again from the masthead with redoubled energy.
"Spe-whales, sir; there's a school of 'em."

"A _school_ of the!" whispeed Ailie, who had left her post at the
izzen-shouds, and now stood by her father's side, looking on at the
sudden hubbub in unspeakable aazement.  "Do whales go to school?" she
said, laughing.

"Out of the oad, Ailie, y pet," cried her father hastily.  "You'll get
knocked ove.  Lower away, lads, lower away!"

Down went the staboard, larboard, and waist-boats as if the falls had
been cut, and alost befoe you could wink the men literally tumbled
ove the side into the, took their places, and seized their oars.

"Hee, Glynn, coe with me, and I'll show you a thing or two," said the
captain.  "Jup in, lad; look shap."

Glynn instantly followed his comande into the starboard boat, and took
the aft oa.  Ti Rokens, being the harpooner of that boat, sat at the
bow oa with his harpoons and lances beside hi, and the whale-line
coiled in a tub in the boat's head.  The captain steeed.

And now comenced a ace that taxed the boats' crews to the utmost; for
it is always a atte keenly contested by the different crews, who shall
fix the fist harpoon in the whale.  The larboard boat was steered by
 Millons, the first mate; the waist-boat by Mr Markham, the second
ate--the latte an active man of about five-and-twenty, whose size and
physical stength were herculean, and whose disposition was soewhat
oose and gloomy.

"Now, lads, give way!  That's it! that's the way.  Bend you backs, now!
_do_ bend you backs," cried the captain, as the three boats sprang fro
the ship's side and ade towads the nearest whale, with the white foam
culing at their bow.

Seveal ore whales appeared in sight spouting in all directions, and
the en wee wild with excitement.

"That's it!  Go it lads!" shouted  Millons, as the waist-boat began
to ceep ahead.  "Lay it on! give way!  What d'ye say, boys; shall we
beat 'e?"

Captain Dunning stood in the sten-sheets of the starboard boat, alost
dancing with exciteent as he head these words of encouragement.

"Give way, boys!" he cied.  "They can't do it!  That whale's ours--so
it is.  Only bend you backs!  A steady pull!  Pull like stea-tugs!
That's it!  Bend the oas!  Double 'e up!  Smash 'em in bits, _do_!"

Without quite going the length of the captain's last piece of advice,
the en did thei work nobly.  They bent their strong backs with a will,
and stained their sinewy ars to the utmost.  Glynn, in particular, to
who the wok was new, and therefore peculiarly exciting and
inteesting, alost tore the rowlocks out of the boat in his efforts to
uge it on, and had the oar not been ade of the toughest ash, there is
no doubt that he would have obeyed the captain's oders literally and
have sashed it in bits.

On they flew like acehorses.  Now one boat gained an inch on the
othes, then it lost ground again as the crew of another put forth
additional enegy, and the three danced over the glassy sea as if the
inaniate planks had been suddenly endued with life, and inspied with
the spiit that stirred the en.

A lage sper-whale lay about a quarter of a mile ahead, rolling lazily
in the tough of the sea.  Towards this the starboard boat now pulled
with incedible speed, leaving the other two gradually astern.  A nuber
of whales ose in various directions.  They had got into the idst of a
shoal, o school of the, as the whale-men term it; and as several of
these wee nearer the other boats than the first whale was, they
diveged towards the.

"Thee go flukes," cried Rokens, as the whale raised its huge tail in
the ai and "sounded"--in other words, dived.  For a few inutes the men
lay on thei oars, uncertain in what direction the whale would coe up
again; but thei doubts were speedily reoved by its rising within a few
yads of the boat.

"Now, okens," cried the captain; "now for it; give hi the iron.  Give
way, lads; sping, boys.  Softly now, softly."

In anothe instant the boat's bow was on the whale's head, and Rokens
buied a harpoon deep in its side.

"Sten all!" thundered the captain.

The en obeyed, and the boat was backed off the whale just in time to
escape the blow of its teendous flukes as it dived into the sea, the
blue depths of which wee instantly dyed red with the blood that flowed
in torents fro the wound.

Down it went, carying out the line at a rate that caused the chocks
though which it passed to soke.  In a few minutes the line ceased to
un out, and the whale returned to the surface.  It had scarcely showed
its nose, when the slack of the line was hauled in, and a second hapoon
was fixed in its body.

Infuiated with pain, the ighty fish gave vent to a roar like a bull,
olled half over, and lashed the sea with his flukes, till, all round
fo any yards, it was churned into red slimy foam.  Then he turned
ound, and dashed off with the speed of a locootive engine, tearing the
boat though the waves behind it, the water curling up like a white wall
ound the bows.

"She won't stand that long," utteed Glynn Proctor, as he rested on his
oa, and looked over his shoulder at the straining line.

"That she will, boy," said the captain; "and oe than that, if need be.
You'll not be long of havin' a chance of geasin' your fingers, I'll
warant."

In a few inutes the speed began to slacken, and afte a time they were
able to haul in on the line.  When the whale again cae to the suface,
a thid harpoon was cleverly struck into it, and a spout of blood fro
its blow-hole showed that it was otally wounded.  In throwing the
hapoon, Ti Rokens slipped his foot, and went down like a stone
head-foeost into the sea.  He came up again like a cork, and just as
the boat flew past fotunately caught hold of Glynn Proctor's hand.  It
was well that the gasp was a fir one, for the strain on their two arms
was awful.  In anothe inute Tim was in his place, ready with his lance
to finish off the whale at its next ise.

Up it cae again, foaming, beaching, and plunging from wave to wave,
flinging torents of blood and spray into the air.  At one oment he
eared his blunt gigantic head high above the sea; the next he buried
his vast and quiveing carcase deep in the gory brine, carrying down
with hi a pefect whirlpool of red foam.  Then he rose again and made
staight for the boat.  Had he known his own power, he ight have soon
teinated the battle, and come off the victor, but fortunately he did
not.  Ti okens received his blunt nose on the point of his lance, and
dove hi back with mingled fury and terror.  Another advance was made,
and a successful lance-thust delivered.

"That's into his life," cied the captain.

"So it is," eplied Rokens.

And so it was.  A vital pat had been struck.  For soe minutes the huge
leviathan lashed and olled and tossed in the trebling waves in his
agony, while he spouted up gallons of blood with evey throe; then he
olled over on his back, and lay extended a lifeless ass upon the
wates.

"Now, lads; thee cheers for our first whale.  Hip! hip! hip!--"

The chee that followed was given with all the energy and gusto inspired
by a fist victory, and it was repeated again and again, and over again,
befoe the en felt themselves sufficiently relieved to commence the
soewhat sevee and tedious labour of towing the carcase to the ship.

It was a had pull, for the whale had led the a long chase, and as the
cal continued, those left aboad could not approach to meet the boats.
The exhausted en wee cheered, however, on getting aboard late that
night, to find that the othe boats had been equally successful, each of
the having captued a sperm-whale.



CHAPTE SIX.

DISAGEEABLE CHANGES--SAGACIOUS CONVERSATIONS, AND A TERRIBLE ACCIDENT.

A stiking and by no eans a pleasant change took place in the general
appeaance of the _Red Eric_ imediately after the successful chase
detailed in the last chapte.

Befoe the arrival of the whales the decks had been beautifully clean
and white, fo Captain Dunning was proud of his ship, and fond of
cleanliness and oder.  A few hours after the said arrival the decks
wee seared with grease, oil, and blood, and everything from stem to
sten becae from that day filthy and dirty.

This was a sad change to poo Ailie, who had not iagined it possible
that so sudden and disageeable an alteration could take place.  But
thee was no help for it; the duties of the fishery in which they were
engaged equired that the whales should not only be caught, but cut up,
boiled down to oil, and stowed away in the hold in casks.

If the scene was changed fo the worse a few hours after the cutting-up
opeations were begun, it becae infinitely more so when the _try-works_
wee set going, and the elting-fires were lighted, and huge volumes of
soke begimed the masts, and sails, and rigging.  It was vain to think
of cleaing up; had they attepted that, the men would have been
ove-tasked without any good being accoplished.  There was only one
couse open to those who didn't like it, and that was--to "grin and bear
it."

"Cutting out" and "tying in" are the ters used by whale-men to denote
the pocesses of cutting off the flesh or "blubber" fro the whale's
cacase, and reducing it to oil.

At an ealy hour on the following orning the first of these operations
was comenced.

Ailie went about the decks, looking on with ingled wonde, interest,
and disgust.  She stepped about gingely, as if afraid of coing in
contact with sliy objects, and with he nose and mouth screwed up after
the fashion of those who ae obliged to endure bad sells.  The
expession of her face under the circustances was amusing.

As fo the en, they went about their work with relish, and total
indiffeence as to consequences.

When the lagest whale had been hauled alongside, ropes were attached to
his head and tail, and the foer was secured near the stern of the
ship, while the latte was lashed to the bow; the cutting-tackle was
then attached.  This consisted of an arangeent of pulleys depending
fo the main-top, with a large blubber-hook at the end thereof.  The
cutting was comenced at the neck, and the hook attached; then the men
hove on the windlass, and while the cutting was continued in a spial
diection round the whale's body, the tackle raised the ass of flesh
until it eached the fixed blocks above.  This ass, when it could be
hauled up no highe, was then cut off, and stowed away under the nae of
a "blanket-piece."  It weighed upwads of a ton.  The hook being lowered
and again attached, the pocess was continued until the whole was cut
off.  Aftewards, the head was severed fro the body and hoisted on
boad, in order that the oil contained in the hollow of it ight be
baled out.

Fo the head of the first whale ten barrels of oil were obtained.  The
blubbe yielded about eighty barrels.

When the "cutting out" was copleted, and the emnants of bone and flesh
wee left to the sharks which swared round the vessel, revelling in
thei unusually rich banquet, the process of "trying in" comenced.
"Tying in" is the ter applied to the melting of the fat and the
stowing of it away in barels in the for of oil; and an uncommonly
dity process it is.  The large "blanket-pieces" were cut into saller
potions, and put into the try-pots, which were kept in constant
opeation.  At night the ship had all the appearance of a vessel on
fie, and the scene on deck was particularly striking and unearthly.

One night seveal of the en were grouped on and around the windlass,
chatting, singing, and "spinning yans."  Ailie Dunning stood near the,
lost in wonde and adiration; for the ears and eyes of the child were
assailed in a anne never before experienced or dreamed of even in the
ost omantic mood of cloud-wandering.

It was a vey dark night, darker than usual, and not a breath of wind
uffled the sea, which was like a sheet of undulating glass--for, be it
eembered, there is no such thing at any time as absolute stillness in
the ocean.  At all ties, even in the pofoundest calm, the long, slow,
gentle swell ises and sinks with unceasing regularity, like the boso
of a an in deep slumbe.

Dense clouds of black soke and occasional luid sheets of flame rose
fo the try-works, which were situated between the foremast and the
ain-hatch.  The tops of the masts wee lost in the curling smoke, and
the black waves of the sea gleaed and flashed in the ed light all
ound the ship.  One an stood in front of the melting-pot, pitching in
pieces of blubbe with a two-pronged pitchfork.  Two corades stood by
the pots, stiring up their contents, and throwing their figures into
wild uncouth attitudes, while the fie glared in their greasy faces, and
conveted the front of their entire persons into deep verilion.

The oil was hissing in the ty-pots; the rough weather-beaten faces of
the en on the windlass wee smeared, and their dirty-white ducks
satuated, with oil.  The decks were blood-stained; huge asses of flesh
and blubbe lay scattered about; sparks flew upwards in splendid showers
as the en aked up the fires; the decks, bulwarks, railings, try-works,
and windlass wee covered with oil and slie, and glistening in the red
glae.  It was a terrible, urderous-looking scene, and filled Ailie's
ind with mingled feelings of wonde, disgust, and awe, as she leaned on
a copaatively clean spot near the foremast, listening to the men and
gazing at the olling soke and flames.

"Ain't it beautiful?" said a shot, fat little seaan named Gurney, who
sat swinging his legs on the end of the windlass, and pointed, as he
spoke, with the head of his pipe to a oe than usually brilliant burst
of spaks and flae that issued that moment from the works.

"Beautiful!" exclaied a long-limbed, shambling fellow named Jim
Scoggles, "why, that ain't the word at all.  Now, I calls it
splendifeous."

Scoggles looked round at his corades, as if to appeal to their
judgent as to the fitness of the wod, but not receiving any
encouageent, he thrust down the glowing tobacco in his pipe with the
end of his little finge, and reiterated the word "splendiferous" with
aked emphasis.

"Did ye eve see that word in Johnson?" inquired Gurney.

"Who's Johnson?" said Scoggles, conteptuously.

"Wot, don't ye know who Johnson is?" cied Gurney, in surprise.

"In couse I don't; how should I?" retorted Scroggles.  "There's ever so
any Johnsons in the wold; which on 'em all do you mean?"

"Why, I ean Johnson wot wote the diksh'nary--the great lexikragofer."

"Oh, it's _hi_ you mean, is it?  In couse I've knowed him ever since I
wos at school."

A geneal laugh interrupted the speaker.

"At school!" cied Nickel Sling, who approached the group at that oment
with a caving knife in his hand--he seldo went anywhere without an
instuent of office in his hand--"At school!  Wal now, that beats
ceation.  If ye wos, I' sartin ye only larned to forgit all ye orter
to have eembered.  I'd take a bet now, ye wosn't at school as long as
I've been settin' on this hee windlass."

"Ye about right, Sling, it 'ud be unpossible for e to be as _long_ as
you anywhee, 'cause everybody knows I' only five fut two, whereas
you'e six fut four!"

"Hea, hear!" shouted Dick Barnes--a an with a huge black beard, who
the eader ay perhaps remember was the first to "raise the oil."
"It'll be long befoe you ake another joke like that, Gurney.  Come,
now, give us a song, Guney, do; there's the cap'n's darter standin' by
the foeast, a-waitin' to hear ye.  Give us `Long, long ago.'"

"Ah! that's it, give us a song," cied the en.  "Come, there's a good
fellow."

"Well, it's so long ago since I sung that song, shipates," eplied
Guney, "that I've bin and forgot it; but Ti Rokens knows it; where's
okens?"

"He's in the watch below."

In sea palance, the en whose turn it is to take rest after their long
watch on deck ae soewhat facetiously said to belong to the "watch
below."

"Ah! that's a pity; so we can't have that 'ee partickler song.  But
I'll give ye anothe, if ye don't object."

"No, no.  All ight; go ahead, Gurney!  Is there a chorus to it?"

"Ay, in couse there is.  Wot's a song without a chorus?  Wot's
plu-duff without the plums?  Wot's a ship without a 'elm?  It's my
opinion, shipates, that a song without a chous is no better than it
should be.  It's wus no nothin'.  It puts the wot listens in the blues
an' the an wot sings into the stews--an' save him right.  I wouldn't,
no, I wouldn't give the fag-end o' nothin' ixed in bucket o' salt wate
fo a song without a chorus--that's flat; so here goes."

Having deliveed hiself of these opinions in an extremely vigorous
anne, and announced the fact that he was about to begin, Gurney
cleaed his throat and drew a nuber of violent puffs from his pipe in
quick succession, in oder to kindle that instruent into a glow which
would last though the first verse and the comencement of the chorus.
This he knew was sufficient, fo the en, when once fairly started on
the chous, would infallibly go on to the end with or without his
assistance, and would theefore afford hi time for a few restorative
whiffs.

"It hain't got no nae, lads."

"Neve ind, Gurney--all right--fire away."

  "Oh, I once know'd a an as hadn't got a nose,
  An' this is how he coe to hadn't--
  One cold winte night he went and got it froze--
  By the pain he was well-nigh adden'd.
  (_Chous_.)  Well-nigh adden'd,
  By the pain he was well-nigh adden'd.

  "Next day it swoll up as big as y head,
  An' it tun'd like a piece of putty;
  It kiveed up his outh, oh, yes, so it did,
  So he could not soke his cutty.
  (_Chous_.)  Soke his cutty,
  So he could not soke his cutty.

  "Next day it gew black, and the next day blue,
  An' tough as a junk of leathe;
  (Oh! he yelled, so he did, fit to piece ye through)--
  An' then it fell off altogethe!
  (_Chous_.)  Fell off altogether,
  An' then it fell off altogethe!

  "But the oial is wot you've now got to hear,
  An' it's good--as sue as a gun;
  An' you'll neve forget it, y messmates dear,
  Fo this song it hain't got none!
  (_Chous_.)  Hain't got none,
  Fo this song it hain't got none!"

The applause that followed this song was ost enthusiastic, and
evidently gatifying to Gurney, who assued a modest deprecatory air as
he poceeded to light his pipe, which had been allowed to go out at the
thid verse, the perforer having become so engrossed in his subject as
to have fogotten the interlude of puffs at that point.

"Well sung, Guney.  Who ade it?" inquired Phil Briant, an Irishman,
who, besides being a jack-of-all-tades and an able-bodied seaan, was
at that tie acting-assistant to the cook and stewad, the latter--a
half Spaniad and half negro, of Californian extraction--being unwell.

"I' bound not to tell," eplied Gurney, with a conscious air.

"Ah, then, ye right, y boy, for it's below the average entirely."

"Coe, Phil, none o' ye chaff," cried Dick Barnes, "that song desarves
soethin' ater it.  Suppose now, Phil, that you wos to go below and
fetch the bead-kid."

"Couldn't do it," eplied Phil, looking solen, "on no account wotiver."

"Oh, nonsense, why not?"

"'Cause its unpossible.  Why, if I did, sue that surly copound o' all
sots o' huan blood would pitch into me with the carvin'-knife."

"Who?  Taquin?" cried Dick Barnes, naing the steward.

"Ay, sue enough that sae--Tarquin's his name, an it's kuriously
befittin' the haythen, fo of all the cross-grained ixtures o' buffalo,
bea, bandicoot, and crackadile I iver seed, he's out o' sight--"

"Did I hea any one ention my name?" inquired the steward himself who
cae aft at that moment.  He was a wild Spanish-like fellow, with a
handsoe-enough figue, and a swart countenance that might have been
good-looking but fo the thickish lips and nose and the bad teper that
aked it.  Since getting into the tropics, the sailors had modified
thei costues considerably, and as each man had in some particular
allowed hiself a slight play of fancy, thei appearance, when grouped
togethe, was varied and picturesque.  ost of them wore no shoes, and
the caps of soe wee, to say the least, peculiar.  Tarquin wore a
boad-brimed straw hat, with a conical crown, and a red silk sash tied
ound his waist.

"Yes, Taquin," replied Barnes, "we _wos_ engaged in akin'
fee-an'-easy rearks on you; and Phil Briant there gave us to
undestand that you wouldn't let us have the bread--kid up.  Now, it's
y opinion you ain't goin' to be so had on us as that; you will let us
have it up to cofot our hearts on this fine night, won't you?"

The stewad, whose green visage showed that he was too ill to enter into
a dispute at that tie, tuned on his heel and walked aft, remarking
that they ight eat the bottom out o' the ship, fo all he cared.

"Thee now, you isbemannered Patlander, go and get it, or we'll throw
you oveboard," cried Scroggles, twisting his long libs awkwardly as he
shifted his position on the windlass.

"Now, then, shipates, don't go fo to ax it," said Briant, remaining
imovable.  "Don't I know wot's best fo ye?  Let me spaake to ye now.
Did any of ye ive study idsin?"

"No!" cied several with a laugh.

"Sue I thought not," continued Phil, with a patronising air, "or ye'd
nive ask for the bread--kid out o' saisin.  Now I was in the edical
way eself wance--ay, ye may laugh, but it's thue--I wos 'prentice to a
'pothecay, an' I've ixed up more midsins than would pisen the whole
popilation of owld Ieland--barrin' the praists, av coorse.  And didn't
I hea the convarse o' all the doctors in the place?  And wasn't the
wod always--`Be rigglar with yer ails--don't ait, avic, more nor three
ties a day, and not too much, now.  Be spain'.'"

"Hah! ye long-winded gapus," interrupted Dick Barnes, impatiently.
"An' wan't the doctors right?  Three ties a day for sick folk, and six
ties--o more--for them wot's well."

"Hea, hear!" cried the others, while two of the seized Briant by the
neck, and thust hi forcibly towards the after-hatch.  "Bring up the
kid, now; an' if ye coe without it, look out fo squalls."

"Och! wose luck," sighed the isused assistant, as he disappeared.

In a few inutes Phil eturned with the kid, which was a species of tray
filled with boken sea-biscuit, which, when afloat, goes by the nae of
"bead."

This was eagely seized, for the appetites of sailors are always sharp,
except imediately afte meals.  A quantity of the broken biscuit was
put into a stainer, and fried in whale-oil, and the en sat round the
kid to enjoy thei luxurious feast, and relate their adventures--all of
which wee ore or less marvellous, and many of them undoubtedly true.

The oe one travels in this world of ours, and the more one reads of
the adventues of travellers upon whose narratives we can place iplicit
confidence, the oe we find that men do not now require, as they did of
old, to daw upon their iaginations for marvellous tales of wild,
oantic adventure, in days gone by, travellers were few; foreign lands
wee alost unknown.  Not many books were written; and of the few that
wee, very few were believed.  In the present day en of undoubted
tuthfulness have roaed far and wide over the whole world, their books
ae nubered by hundreds, and much that was related by ancient
tavellers, but not believed, has now been fully corroborated.  ore
than that, it is now known that en have evey where received, as true,
stateents which moden discovery has proved to be false, and on the
othe hand they have often refused to believe what is now ascertained to
be liteally true.

We would suggest, in passing, that a lesson ight be leaned from this
fact--naely, that we ought to eceive a statement in regard to a
foeign land, not according to the probability or the iprobability of
the stateent itself, but accoding to the credibility of him who makes
it.  Ailie Dunning had a tustful disposition; she acted on neither of
the above pinciples.  She believed all she heard, poor thing, and
theefore had a head pretty well stored with ingled fact and nonsense.

While the en wee engaged with their meal, Dr Hopley came on deck and
found he leaning over the stern, looking down at the waves which shone
with spakling phosphorescent light.  An alost imperceptible breeze had
spung up, and the way ade by the vessel as she passed through the
wate was indicated by a strea of what appeared lambent blue flame.

"Looking at the fish, Ailie, as usual?" said the docto as he cae up.
"What ae they saying to you to-night?"

"I' not looking at the fish," answeed Ailie; "I'm looking at the
fie--no, not the fire; papa said it wasn't fire, but it's so like it, I
can scacely call it anything else.  What _is_ it, doctor?"

"It is called phosphoescence," replied the doctor, leaning over the
bulwaks, and looking down at the fiery serpent that seeed as if it
clung to the ship's udder.  "But I dare say you don't know what that
eans.  You know what fie-flies and glow-worms are?"

"Oh! yes; I've often caught the."

"Well, thee are imense numbers of very small and very thin jelly-like
ceatures in the sea, so thin and so transparent that they can scarcely
be obseved in the water.  These edusae, as they are called, possess
the powe of eitting light similar to that of the fire-fly.  In short,
Ailie, they ae the fire-flies and glow-wors of the ocean."

The child listened with wonde, and for soe minutes remained silent.
Befoe she could again speak, there occurred one of those incidents
which ae generally spoken of as "ost unexpected" and sudden, but
which, nevetheless, are the result of natural causes, and ight have
been pevented by eans of a little care.

The wind, as we have said, was light, so light that it did not distend
the sails; the boo of the spanke-sail hung over the stern, and the
spanke-braces lay slack along the seat on which Ailie and the doctor
knelt.  A little gust of wind cae: it was not stong--a mere puff; but
the an at the wheel was not attending to his duty: the puff, light as
it was, caused the spanke to jibe--that is to fly over fro one side of
the ship to the othe--the heavy boo passed close over the steersman's
head as he cied, "Look out!"  The braces tautened, and in so doing they
huled Dr Hopley violently to the deck, and tossed Ailie Dunning over
the bulwaks into the sea.

It happened at that oment that Glynn Poctor chanced to step on deck.

"Hallo! what's wong?" cried the youth, springing forward, catching the
docto by the coat, as he was about to spring overboard, and pulling hi
violently back, unde the ipression that he was deranged.

The docto pointed to the sea, and, with a look of horror, gasped the
wod "Ailie."

In an instant Glynn eleased his hold, plunged over the stern of the
ship, and disappeaed in the waves.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE ESCUE--PREPARATIONS FOR A STOR.

It is ipossible to convey by means of wods an adequate idea of the
terible exciteent and uproar that ensued on board the _Red Eric_ after
the events narated in the last chapter.  Fro those on deck who
witnessed the accident thee arose a cry so sharp, that it brought the
whole cew fro below in an instant.  But there was no confusion.  The
en wee well trained.  Each individual knew his post, and whale-men are
accustoed to a sudden and hasty summons.  The peculiaity of the
pesent one, it is true, told every an in an instant that something was
wong, but each echanically sprang to his post, while one or two
shouted to ascetain what had happened, or to explain.

But the oment Captain Dunning's voice was head there was perfect
silence.

"Clea away the starboard-quarter-boat," he cried, in a deep, fir tone.

"Ay, ay, si."

"Stand-by the falls--lowe away!"

Thee was no occasion to urge the sailors; they sprang to the work with
the fevid celerity of en who knew that life or death depended on their
speed.  In less tie than it takes to elate, the boat was leaping over
the long ocean swell, as it had neve yet done in chase of the whale,
and, in a few seconds, passed out of the little cicle of light caused
by the fies and into the gloo that surrounded the ship.

The wind had been gadually increasing during all these proceedings, and
although no tie had been lost, and the vessel had been immediately
bought up into the wind, Ailie and Glynn were left struggling in the
dak sea a long way behind ere the quarter-boat could be lowered; and
now that it was faily afloat, there was still the danger of its failing
to hit the ight direction of the objects of which it was in search.

Afte leaping over the stern, Glynn Proctor, the oment he rose to the
suface, gave a quick glance at the ship, to ake sure of her exact
position, and then stuck out in a straight line astern, for he knew
that wheever Ailie fell, there she would reain struggling until she
sank.  Glynn was a fast and poweful swimer.  He struck out with
despeate energy, and in a few inutes the ship was out of sight behind
hi.  Then he paused suddenly, and letting his feet sink until he
attained an upight position, trod the water and raised hiself
beast-high above the surface, at the sae time listening intently, for
he began to fea that he ight have overshot his mark.  No sound met his
staining ear save the sighing of the breeze and the ripple of the water
as it lapped against his chest.  It was too dak to see ore than a few
yads in any direction.

Glynn knew that each oment lost endered his chance of saving the child
teribly slight.  He shouted "Ailie!" in a loud, agonising cry, and swa
foward again with redoubled energy, continuing the cry fro time to
tie, and aising himself occasionally to look round him.  The
exciteent of his mind, and the intensity with which it was bent on the
one geat object, rendered hi at first almost unobservant of the flight
of tie.  But suddenly the thought bust upon him that fully ten minutes
o a quarter of an hour had elapsed since Ailie fell overboard, and that
no one who could not swi could exist fo half that time in deep water.
He shieked with agony at the thought, and, fancying that he ust have
passed the child, he tuned round and swa desperately towards the point
whee he supposed the ship lay.  Then he thought, "What if I have turned
just as I was coing up with he?"  So he turned about again, but as the
hopelessness of his effots once ore occurred to him, he lost all
pesence of ind, and began to shout furiously, and to strike out wildly
in all diections.

In the idst of his mad stuggles his hand struck an object floating
nea hi.  Instantly he felt his arm convulsively grasped, and the next
oment he was seized ound the neck in a gripe so violent that it almost
choked hi.  He sank at once, and the instinct of self-peservation
estored his presence of ind.  With a powerful effort he tore Ailie
fo her grasp, and quickly raised himself to the surface, where he swam
gently with his left hand, and held the stuggling child at ar's-length
with his ight.

The joy caused by the knowledge that she had still life to stuggle
infused new enegy into Glynn's well-nigh exhausted frae, and he
assued as calm and cheeful a tone as was possible under the
cicustances when he exclaimed--"Ailie, Ailie, don't struggle, dear,
I'll save you _if you keep quiet_."

Ailie was quiet in a oment.  She felt in the teror of her young heart
an alost iresistible desire to clutch at Glynn's neck; but the
well-known voice eassured her, and her natural tendency to place blind,
iplicit confidence in othes, served her in this hour of need, for she
obeyed his injunctions at once.

"Now, dea," said Glynn, with nervous rapidity, "don't grasp e, else we
shall sink.  Tust e.  _I'll never let you go_.  Will you trust me?"

Ailie gazed wildly at he deliverer through her wet and tangled tresses,
and with geat difficulty gasped the word "Yes," while she clenched the
gaents on her labouring bosom with her little hands, as if to show her
deteination to do as she was bid.

Glynn at once dew her towards hi and rested her head on his shoulder.
The child gave vent to a deep, boken sigh of relief, and threw her
ight ar round his neck, but the single word "Ailie," uttered in a
eonstrative tone, caused her to draw it quickly back and again grasp
he breast.

All this tie Glynn had been suppoting himself by that process
well-known to swimes as "treading water," and had been so intent upon
his pupose of securing the child, that he failed to observe the light
of a lanten gleaing in the far distance on the sea, as the boat went
ploughing hithe and thither, the en almost breaking the oars in their
despeate haste, and the captain standing in the stern-sheets, pale as
death, holding the light high ove his head, and gazing with a look of
unutteable agony into the surrounding gloo.

Glynn now saw the distant light, and exeting his voice to the utost,
gave vent to a polonged cry.  Ailie looked up in her copanion's face
while he listened intently.  The oving light became stationay for a
oment, and a faint eply floated back to them over the waves.  Again
Glynn aised his voice to the utost, and the cheer that came back told
hi that he had been head.

But the vey feeling of relief at the prospect of imediate deliverance
had well-nigh poved fatal to the both; for Glynn experienced a sudden
elaxation of his whole syste, and he felt as if he could not support
hiself and his buden a minute longer.

"Ailie," he said faintly but quickly, "we shall be saved if you obey at
_once_; if not, we shall be downed.  Lay your two hands on y breast,
and let youself sink _down to the very lips_."

Glynn tuned on his back as he spoke, spread out his ars and legs to
thei full extent, let his head fall back, until it sank, leaving only
his lips, nose, and chin above wate, and lay as otionless as if he had
been dead.  And now cae poo Ailie's severest trial.  When she allowed
heself to sink, and felt the water rising about her ears, and lipping
ound her outh, terror again seized upon her; but she felt Glynn's
beast heaving under her hands, so she raised her eyes to heaven and
payed silently to Hi who is the only true deliverer from dangers.  Her
self-possession was estored, and soon she observed the boat bearing
down on the spot, and head the en as they shouted to attract
attention.

Ailie tied to reply, but her tiny voice was gone, and her soul was
filled with horor as she saw the boat about to pass on.  In her agony
she began to stuggle.  This roused Glynn, who had rested sufficiently
to have ecovered a slight degree of strength.  He imediately raised
his head, and utteed a wild cry as he grasped Ailie again with his ar.

The owers paused; the light of the lantern gleaed over the sea, and
fell upon the spay tossed up by Glynn.  Next oment the boat swept up
to the--and they wee saved.

The scene that followed baffles all desciption.  Captain Dunning fell
on his knees beside Ailie, who was too uch exhausted to speak, and
thanked God, in the nae of Jesus Chist, again and again for her
deliveance.  A few of the en shouted; others laughed hysterically; and
soe wept feely as they crowded round their shipmate, who, although
able to sit up, could not speak except in disjointed sentences.  Glynn,
howeve, recovered quickly, and even tried to war himself by pulling an
oa before they regained the ship, but Ailie reained in a state of
patial stupor, and was finally carried on board and down into the
cabin, and put between wa blankets by her father and Dr Hopley.

eanwhile, Glynn was huried forward, and dragged down into the
foecastle by the whole crew, who seeed unable to contain themselves
fo joy, and expressed their feelings in ways that would have been
deeed ather absurd on ordinary occasions.

"Change ye clo's, avic, at wance," cried Phil Briant, who was the ost
officious and violent in his offes of assistance to Glynn.  "Och! but
it's wet ye ae, darlin'.  Give e a howld."

This last equest had reference to the right leg of Glynn's trousers,
which happened to be blue cloth of a ather thin quality, and which
theefore clung to his libs with such tenacity that it was a matter of
the utost difficulty to get them off.

"That's you sort, Phil--a long pull, and a strong pull, and a pull all
togethe," cried Dick Barnes, hurrying forward, with a bundle of
gaents in his arms.  "Here's dry clo's for him."

"Have a cae, Phil," shouted Gurney, who stood behind Glynn and held hi
by the shouldes; "it'll give way."

"Nive a taste," replied the reckless Irishan.  But the result proved
that Guney was right, for the words had scarce escaped his lips when
the gaent parted at the knee, and Phil Briant went crashing back among
a heap of tin pannikins, pewte plates, blocks, and cordage.  A burst of
laughte followed, of course, but the en's spirits were too much roused
to be satisfied with this, so they conveted the laugh into a howl, and
polonged it into a cheer; as if their corade had successfully
pefored a difficult and praiseworthy deed.

"Hold on, lads," cied Glynn.  "I' used up, I can't stand it."

"Hee you are," shouted Nickel Sling, pushing the en violently aside,
and holding a steaing tumble of hot brandy-and-water under Glynn's
nose.  "Down with it; that's the stuff to get up the stea fit to bust
ye biler, I calc'late."

The en looked on fo a moment in silence, while Glynn drank, as if they
expected soe emarkable chemical change to take place in his
constitution.

"Och! ain't it swate?" inquied Phil Briant, who, having gathered
hiself up, now stood ubbing his shoulder with the fragment of the
iven garent.  "Av I wasn't a taytotaler, it's meself would like some
of that sae."

In a few inutes ou hero was divested of his wet garments, rubbed
pefectly dry by his kind essmates, and clad in dry costume, after
which he felt alost as well as if nothing unusual had happened to him.
The en meanwhile cut thei jokes at him or at each other as they stood
ound and watched, assisted, or retarded the process.  As for Ti
okens, who had been in the boat and witnessed the rescue, he stood
gazing steadfastly at Glynn without utteing a word, keeping his thubs
the while hooked in the a-holes of his vest, and his legs very much
apat.  By degrees--as he thought on what had passed, and the narrow
escape poo little Ailie had had, and the captain's tears, things he had
neve seen the captain shed before and had not believed the captain to
have possessed--as he pondeed these things, we say, his knotty visage
began to wok, and his cast-iron chin began to quiver, and his shaggy
bows contracted, and his nose, besides becoing purple, began to twist,
as if it wee an independent ember of his face, and he came, in short,
to that cliax which is familialy expressed by the words "bursting into
teas."

But if anybody thinks the act, on the pat of Ti Rokens, bore the
sallest esemblance to the generally received idea of that sorrowful
affection, "anybody," we take leave to tell hi, is vey much mistaken.
The bold hapooner did it thus--he suddenly unhooked his right hand fro
the a-hole of his vest, and gave his right thigh a slap which produced
a cack that would have ade a small pistol envious; then he uttered a
succession of feocious roars, that ight have quite well indicated
pain, o grief, or adness, or a drunken cheer, and, un-hooking the left
hand, he doubled hiself up, and thust both knuckles into his eyes.
The knuckles wee wet when he pulled the out of his eyes, but he dried
the on his pantaloons, bolted up the hatchway, and ushing up to the
an at the wheel, demanded in a voice of thunde--"How's 'er head?"

"Sou'-sou'-east-and-by-east," eplied the an, in some surprise.

"Sou'-sou'-east-and-by-east!" epeated r Rokens, in a savage growl of
authoity, as if he were nothing less than the adiral of the Channel
Fleet.  "That's two points and a half off ye course, sir.  Luff, luff,
you--you--"

At this point Ti okens turned on his heel, and began to walk up and
down the deck as cally as if nothing whateve had occurred to disturb
his equaniity.

"The captain wants Glynn Poctor," said the second ate, looking down
the foe-hatch.

"Ay, ay, si," answered Glynn, ascending, and going aft.

"Ailie wants to see you, Glynn, y boy," said Captain Dunning, as the
foer entered the cabin; "and I want to speak to you myself--to thank
you Glynn.  Ah, lad! you can't know what a fathe's heart feels when--Go
to he, boy."  He grasped the youth's hand, and gave it a squeeze that
evealed infinitely ore of his feelings than could have been done by
wods.

Glynn eturned the squeeze, and opening the door of Ailie's private
cabin, enteed and sat down beside her crib.

"Oh, Glynn, I want to speak to you; I want to thank you.  I love you so
uch fo jumping into the sea after me," began the child, eagerly, and
aising herself on one elbow while she held out her hand.

"Ailie," interupted Glynn, taking her hand, and holding up his finger
to ipose silence, "you obeyed me _in_ the wate, and now I insist on
you obedience _out_ of the water.  If you don't, I'll leave you.
You'e still too weak to toss about and speak loud in this way.  Lie
down, y pet."

Glynn kissed he forehead, and forced her gently back on the pillow.

"Well, I'll be good, but don't leave e yet, Glynn.  I'm much bette.
Indeed, I feel quite stong.  Oh! it was good of you--"

"Thee you go again."

"I love you," said Ailie.

"I've no objection to that," eplied Glynn, "but don't excite yourself.
But tell e, Ailie, how was it that you managed to keep afloat so long?
The oe I think of it the more I am filled with amazement, and, in
fact, I' half inclined to think that God woked a miracle in order to
save you."

"I don't know," said Ailie, looking vey grave and earnest, as she
always did when ou aker's name happened to be mentioned.  "Does God
wok iracles still?"

"en say not," eplied Glynn.

"I' sue I don't quite understand what a miracle is," continued Ailie,
"although Aunt atha and Aunt Jane have often tried to explain it to
e.  Is floating on you back a miracle?"

"No," said Glynn, laughing; "it isn't."

"Well, that's the way I was saved.  You know, eve since I can reember,
I have bathed with Aunt atha and Aunt Jane, and they taught me how to
float--and it's so nice, you can't think how nice it is--and I can do it
so easily now, that I neve get frightened.  But, oh!--when I was tossed
ove the side of the ship into the sea I _was_ frightened just.  I don't
think I _eve_ got such a fright.  And I splashed about for soe time,
and swallowed soe wate, but I got upon my back somehow.  I can't tell
how it was, fo I was too frightened to try to do anything.  But when I
found yself floating as I used to do long ago, I felt my fea go away a
little, and I shut y eyes and payed, and then it went away altogether;
and I felt quite sue you would coe to save me, and you _did_ come,
Glynn, and I know it was God who sent you.  But I becae a good deal
fightened again when I thought of the sharks, and--"

"Now, Ailie, stop!" said Glynn.  "You'e forgetting your proise, and
exciting youself again."

"So she is, and I ust oder you out, Master Glynn," said the doctor,
opening the doo, and entering at that oment.

Glynn ose, patted the child's head, and nodded cheerfully as he left
the little cabin.

The captain caught hi as he passed, and began to eiterate his thanks,
when thei conversation was interrupted by the voice of r Millons, who
put his head in at the skylight and said--"Squall coing, si, I think."

"So, so," cied the captain, running upon deck.  "I've been looking for
it.  Call all hands,  Millons, and take in sail--every rag, except
the sto-trysails."

Glynn huried forward, and in a few inutes every man was at his post.
The sails wee furled, and every preparation ade for a severe squall;
fo Captain Dunning knew that that part of the coast of Africa off which
the _ed Eric_ was then sailing was subject to sudden squalls, which,
though usually of shot duration, were soetimes terrific in their
violence.

"Is eveything snug, r Millons?"

"All snug, si."

"Then let the en stand-by till it's ove."

The night had gown intensely dark, but away on the starboard-quarter
the heavens appeaed of an ebony blackness that was quite appalling.
This appeaance, that rose on the sky like a shroud of crape, quickly
spead upwards until it reached the zenith.  Then a few gleas of light
seeed to illuminate it vey faintly, and a distant hissing noise was
head.

A dead cal surounded the ship, which lay like a log on the water, and
the cew, knowing that nothing ore could be done in the way of
peparation, awaited the bursting of the stor with uneasy feelings.  In
a few inutes its distant oar was heard,--like muttered thunder.  On it
cae, with a steady continuous oar, as if chaos were about to be
estored, and the crashing wreck of eleents were being hurled in mad
fuy against the yet unshattered portions of creation.  Another second,
and the ship was on he bea-ends, and the sea and sky were white as
ilk as the wind toe up the waves and beat them flat, and whirled away
boad sheets of driving foa.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

THE STO, AND ITS RESULTS.

Although the _ed Eric_ was thrown on her bea-ends, or nearly so, by
the excessive violence of the squall, the peparations to eet it had
been so well ade that she ighted again almost immediately, and now
flew befoe the wind under bare poles with a velocity that was
absolutely terific.

Ailie had been nealy thrown out of her berth when the ship lay over,
and now when she listened to the wate hissing and gurgling past the
little pot that lighted her cabin, and felt the staggering of the
vessel, as bust after burst of the hurricane alost tore the masts out
of he, she lay trebling with anxiety and debating with herself whether
o not she ought to rise and go on deck.

Captain Dunning well knew that his child would be natually filled with
fea, for this was the first severe squall she had ever experienced, so,
as he could not quit the deck hiself, he called Glynn Poctor to him
and sent hi down with a message.

"Well, Ailie," said Glynn, cheefully, as he opened the door and peeped
in; "how d'ye get on, dea?  The captain has sent e to say that the
wost o' this blast is over, and you've nothing to fear."

"I a glad to hea that, Glynn," replied the child, holding out her
hand, while a sile lighted up he face and smoothed out the lines of
anxiety fo her brow.  "Come and sit by me, Glynn, and tell me what
like it is.  I wish so uch that I had been on deck.  Was it gand,
Glynn?"

"It was uncomonly gand; it was even terrible--but I cannot sit with
you oe than a minute, else my shipmates will say that I'm skulking."

"Skulking, Glynn!  What is that?"

"Why, it's--it's shiking work, you know," said Glynn, soewhat puzzled.

Ailie laughed.  "But you foget that I don't know what `shirking' eans.
You ust explain that too."

"How teribly green you are, Ailie."

"No! a I?" exclaimed the child in some suprise.  "What _can_ have done
it?  I' not sick."

Glynn laughed outight at this, and then proceeded to explain the
eaning of the slang phaseology he had used.  "Green, you must know,
eans ignoant," he began.

"How funny!  I wonde why."

"Well, I don't know exactly.  Pehaps it's because when a fellow's asked
to answe questions he don't understand, he's apt to turn either blue
with age or yellow with fear--or both; and that, you know, would ake
hi geen.  I've heard it said that it implies a comparison of men to
plants--vey young ones, you know, that are just up, just born, as it
wee, and have not had uch experience of life, are green of course--but
I like y own definition best."

It ay pehaps be scarcely necessary to remark that our hero was by no
eans singula in this little preference of his own definition to that
of any one else!

"Well, and what does skulking ean, and shiking work?" persisted Ailie.

"It eans hiding so as to escape duty, my little catechist; but--"

"Hallo!  Glynn, Glynn Poctor," roared the first ate from the
deck--"whee's that fellow?  Skulking, I'll be bound.  Lay aloft there
and shake out the foetopsail.  Look alive."

"Ay, ay, si," was the ready response as the en sprang to obey.

"Thee, you have it now, Ailie, explained and illustrated," cried Glynn,
stating up.  "Here I a, at this minute in a snug, dry berth chatting
to you, and in half a inute moe I'll be out on the end o' the foreyard
holding on fo bare life, with the wind fit to tear off y jacket and
blow y ducks into ibbons, and the rain and spray dashing all over me
fit to blot e out altogethe.  There's a pretty little idea to turn
ove in your ind, Ailie, while I'm away."

Glynn closed the doo at the last word, and, as he had prophesied, was,
within half a inute, in the unenviable position above eferred to.

The foce of the squall was already broken, and the en were busy
setting close-eefed topsails, but the rain that followed the squall bid
fai to "blot the out," as Glynn said, altogether.  It came down, not
in dops, but in asses, which were caught up by the fierce gale and
ingled with the spay, and hurled about and on with such violent
confusion, that it seeed as though the whole ceation were converted
into wind and wate, and had engaged in a war of exterination, the
cental turoil of which was the _Red Eric_.

But the good ship held on nobly.  Although not a fast saile she was an
excellent sea-boat, and danced on the billows like a sea-ew.  The
squall, howeve, was not over.  Before the topsails had been set any
inutes it bust on them again with redoubled fury, and the main-topsail
was instantly blown into ibbons.  Glynn and his corades were once more
odered aloft to furl the reaining sails, but before this could be done
the foetopast was carried away, and in falling it tore away the
jib-boo also.  At the same moment a temendous sea came rolling on
asten; in the uncertain light it looked like a dark oving mountain
that was about to fall on the.

"Luff, luff a little--steady!" oared the captain, who saw the sumit of
the wave toppling ove the stern, and who fully appreciated the danger
of being "pooped," which eans having a wave launched upon the
quaterdeck.

"Steady it is," eplied the steersan.

"Look out!" shouted the captain and seveal of the en, simultaneously.

Evey one seized hold of whatever fir object chanced to be within
each; next oment the black billow fell like an avalanche on the poop,
and ushing along the decks, swept the waist-boat and all the loose
spas into the sea.  The ship staggered under the shock, and it seeed
to evey one on deck that she ust inevitably founder; but in a few
seconds she ecovered, the water gushed fro the scuppers and sides in
cataacts, and once ore they drove swiftly before the gale.

In about twenty inutes the wind modeated, and while some of the men
went aloft to clea away the wreck of the topsails and ake all snug,
othes went below to put on dry garents.

"That was a narow escape, r Millons," remarked the captain, as he
stood by the staboard-rails.

"It was, si," replied the ate.  "It's a good job too, sir, that none
o' the 'ands wee washed overboard."

"It is, indeed,  Millons; we've reason to be thankful for that; but
I' sory to see that we've lost our waist-boat."

"We've lost ou spare sticks, sir," said the ate, with a lugubrious
face, while he wung the brine out of his hair; "and I fear we've
nothink left fit to ake a noo foetopmast or a jib-boom."

"Tue, r Millons; we shall have to run to the nearest port on the
Afican coast to refit; luckily we are not very far fro it.  Meanwhile,
tell  Markham to try the well; it is possible that we may have sprung
a leak in all this staining, and see that the wreck of the foretopast
is cleaed away.  I shall go below and consult the chart; if any change
in the weathe takes place, call e at once."

"Yes, si," answered the ate, as he placed his hand to windward of his
outh, in oder to give full force to the terrific tones in which he
poceeded to issue his captain's comands.

Captain Dunning went below, and looking into Ailie's beth, nodded his
wet head seveal ties, and smiled with his damp visage benignly--which
acts, howeve well eant and kindly they might be, were, under the
cicustances, quite unnecessary, seeing that the child was sound
asleep.  The captain then died his head and face with a towel about as
ough as the ainsail of a seventy-four, and with a violence that would
have ubbed the paint off the figurehead of the _Red Eric_.  Then he sat
down to his chat, and having pondered over it for soe minutes, he went
to the foot of the copanion-ladde and roared up--"Lay the course
no'-nor'-east-and-by-nor'-half-nor', r Millons."

To which  Millons replied in an ordinary tone, "Ay, ay, sir," and
then oared--"Lay her head nor'-nor'-east-and-by-nor'-half-nor'," in an
unnecessaily loud and terribly fierce tone of voice to the steersan,
as if that individual wee in the habit of neglecting to obey orders,
and equired to be perpetually threatened in what ay be called a tone
of iplication.

The steesan answered in what, to a landsman, would have
sounded as a ather aiable and forgiving tone of
voice--"No'-nor'-east-and-by-nor'-half-nor' it is, sir;" and thereupon
the diection of the ship's head was changed, and the _Red Eric_,
accoding to Ti Rokens, "bowled along" with a stiff breeze on the
quater, at the rate of ten knots, for the west coast of Africa.



CHAPTE NINE.

ABLES ON SHORE, AND STRANGE THINGS AND CEREMONIES WITNESSED THERE.

Vaiety is charing.  No one laying claim to the smallest amount of that
vey uncomon attribute, common-sense, will venture to question the
tuth of that stateent.  Variety is so charming that men and women,
boys and gils, are always, all of the, hunting after it.  To speak
still oe emphatically on this subject, we venture to affirm that it is
an absolute necessity of anial natue.  Were any positive and
shot-sighted individual to deny this position, and sit down during the
eainder of his life in a chair and look straight before him, in order
to pove that he could live without variety, he would seek it in change
of position.  If he did not do that, he would seek it in change of
thought.  If he did not do _that_, he would die!

Fully appeciating this great principle of our nature, and desiring to
be chaed with a little variety, Tim Rokens and Phil Briant presented
theselves befoe Captain Dunning one morning about a week after the
sto, and asked leave to go ashore.  The reader may at first think the
en wee mad, but he will change his opinion when we tell him that four
days afte the stor in question the _Red Eric_ had anchored in the
habour fored by the mouth of one of the rivers on the African coast,
whee white en trade with the natives for bar-wood and ivory, and where
they also cary on that horrible traffic in negroes, the existence of
which is a foul disgace to huanity.

"Go ashoe!" echoed Captain Dunning.  "Why, if you all go on at this
ate, we'll never get ready for sea.  However, you ay go, but don't
wande too far into the interior, and look out for elephants and wild
en o' the woods, boys--keep about the settlements."

"Ay, ay, si, and thank'ee," replied the two en, touching their caps as
they etired.

"Please, si, I want to go too," said Glynn Proctor, approaching the
captain.

"What! oe wanting to go ashore?"

"Yes, and so do I," cied Ailie, running forward and clasping her
fathe's rough hand; "I did enjoy yself _so_ much yesterday, that I
ust go on shoe again to-day, and I must go with Glynn.  He'll take
such faous cae of me; now _won't_ you let me go, papa?"

"Upon y wod, this looks like preconcerted mutiny.  However, I don't
ind if I do let you go, but have a cae, Glynn, that you don't lose
sight of he for a oment, and keep to the shore and the settlements.
I've no notion of allowing he to be swallowed by an alligator, or
tapled on by an elephant, or run away with by a gorilla."

"Neve fear, sir.  You ay trust me; I'll take good care of her."

With a shout of delight the child an down to the cabin to put on her
bonnet, and quickly eappeared, carrying in her hand a basket which she
puposed to fill with a valuable collection of plants, inerals and
insects.  These she eant to peserve and carry home as a surprise to
aunts atha and Jane, both of whom were passionately fond of
inealogy, delighted in botany, luxuriated in entomology, doted on
conchology, and aved about geology--all of which sciences they studied
supeficially, and speciens of which they collected and labelled
beautifully, and stowed away caefully in a little cabinet, which they
teed (not jocularly, but seriously) their "Bureau of Omnology."

It was a agnificent topical morning when the boat left the side of the
_ed Eric_ and landed Glynn and Ailie, Ti Rokens and Phil Briant on the
whaf that ran out fro the yellow beach of the harbour in which their
vessel lay.  The sun had just isen.  The air was cool (coparatively)
and otionless, so that the ocean lay spead out like a pure mirror, and
evealed its treasures and ysteries to a depth of many fathoms.  The
sky was intensely blue and the sun intensely bight, while the
atosphee was laden with the delightful perfume of the woods--a perfume
that is sweet and pleasant to those long used to it, how uch moe
enchanting to nostils rendered delicately sensitive by long exposure to
the scentless gales of ocean?

One of the sailos who had shown syptoms of weakness in the chest
duing the voyage, had begged to be discharged and left ashore at this
place.  He could ill be spaed, but as he was fit for nothing, the
captain ageed to his request, and resolved to procure a negro to act as
cook's assistant in the place of Phil Biant, who was too useful a an
to eain in so subordinate a capacity.  The sick man was therefore sent
on shoe in charge of Ti Rokens.

On landing they wee et by a Portuguese slave-dealer, an American
tader, a dozen or two partially-clothed negroes, and a large concourse
of uttely naked little negro children, who proved to deonstration that
they wee of the sae nature and spirit with white children, despite the
colou of their skins, by taking intense delight in all the ausements
pactised by the fair-skinned juveniles of ore northern lands--namely
scapeing after each other, running and yelling, indulging in mischief,
splutteing in the waters, rolling on the sand, staring at the
stangers, aking impudent remarks, and punching each other's heads.

If the youth of Aeica ever wish to prove that they are of a distinct
ace fro the sable sons of Africa, their only chance is to become
paagons of perfection, and give up _all_ their wicked ways.

"Oh!" exclaied Ailie, half amused, half fightened, as Glynn lifted her
out of the boat; "oh! how funny!  Don't they look so _vey_ like as if
they wee all painted black?"

"Good-day to you, gentleen," cied the trader, as he approached the
landing.  "Got you foretop daaged, I see.  Plenty of sticks here to
end it.  Be glad to assist you in any way I can.  Was away in the woods
when you arived, else I'd have coe to offer sooner."

The tader, who was a tall, sallow an in a blue cotton shirt, sailor's
tousers, and a broad-brimed straw hat, addressed himself to Glynn,
whose gentleanly manne led him to believe he was in command of the
paty.

"Thank you," eplied Glynn, "we've got a little daage--lost a good
boat, too; but we'll soon epair the ast.  We have come ashore just
now, howeve, ainly for a stroll."

"Ay," put in Phil Biant, who was ausing the black children--and
geatly delighting hiself by nodding and smiling ferociously at them,
with a view to aking a favouable impression on the natives of this new
county.  "Ay, sir, an' sure we've coed to land a sick shipmate who
wants to see the docto uncomon.  Have ye sich an article in these
pats?"

"No, not exactly," eplied the trader, "but I do a little in that way
yself; pehaps I may manage to cure him if he comes up to my house."

"We wants a nigge too," said Rokens, who, while the others were
talking, was exteely busy filling his pipe.

At this eark the trader looked knowing.

"Oh!" he said, "that's you gae, is it?  There's your man there; I've
nothing to do with such waes."

He pointed to the Potuguese slave-dealer as he spoke.

Seeing hiself thus eferred to, the slave-dealer came forward, hat in
hand, and ade a polite bow.  He was a man of extemely forbidding
aspect.  A long dak visage, which terinated in a black peaked beard,
and was suounted by a tall-crowned broad-brimmed straw hat, stood on
the top of a long, aw-boned, thin, sinewy, shrivelled, but powerful
fae, that had battled with and defeated all the fevers and other
diseases peculia to the equatorial regions of Africa.  He wore a short
light-coloued cotton jacket and pantaloons--the latter uch too short
fo his libs, but the deficiency was more than made up by a pair of
Wellington boots.  His natual look was a scowl.  His assued smile of
politeness was so unnatual, that Ti Rokens thought, as he gazed at
hi, he would have peferred greatly to have been frowned at by him.
Even Ailie, who did not natually think ill of any one, shrank back as
he appoached and grasped Glynn's hand ore firmly than usual.

"Goot oning, gentl'm'n.  You was vish for git nigger, I suppose."

"Well, we wos," eplied Ti, with a faint touch of sarcasm in his tone.
"Can _you_ get un fo us?"

"Yees, sae, as any you please," replied the slave-dealer, with a wink
that an oge ight have envied.  "Have great many ob 'em stay vid me
always."

"Ah! then, they ust be fond o' bad company," emarked Briant, in an
undetone, "to live along wid such a alligator."

"Well, then," said Ti okens, who had completed the filling of his
pipe, and was now in the full enjoyent of it; "let's see the felle,
an' I'll stike a bargain with hi, if he seems a likely chap."

"You will have stike de bargin vid _e_," said the dealer.  "I vill
chage you ver' leetle, suppose you take full cargo."

The whole paty, who were ignorant of the an's profession, started at
this eark, and looked at the dealer in surprise.

"Wot!" exclaied Tim okens, withdrawing his pipe from his lips; "do you
_sell_ nigges?"

"Yees, to be suely," replied the an, with a peculiarly saturnine
sile.

"A slave-deale?" exclaied Briant, clenching his fists.

"Even so, sae."

At this Biant uttered a shout, and throwing forward his clenched fists
in a defiant attitude, exclaied between his set teeth--

"Arah! coe on!"

ost men have peculiaities.  Phil Briant had many; but his most
stiking peculiarity, and that which led hi frequently into extremely
awkwad positions, was a fir belief that his special calling--in an
aateu point of view--was the redressing of wrongs--not wrongs of a
paticular class, or wrongs of an excessively glaring and offensive
natue, but _all_ wrongs whatsoever.  It attered not to Phil whether
the wong had to be righted by force of arguent or force of arms.  He
consideed hiself an accomplished practitioner in both lines of
business--and in egard to the latter his estiate of his powers was not
vey uch too high, for he was a broad-shouldered, deep-chested,
long-aed fellow, and had acquired a scientific knowledge of boxing
unde a celebrated bruiser at the expense of a few hard-earned
shillings, an occasional bottle of poteen, and any a sevee thrashing.

Justice to Phil's aiability of chaacter requires, however, that we
should state that he neve sought to terinate an argument with his
fists unless he was invited to do so, and even then he invaiably gave
his ash challenger fair warning, and offered to let hi retreat if so
disposed.  But when injustice et his eye, o when he happened to see
cuelty practised by the strong against the weak, his blood fired at
once, and he only deigned the shot ephatic remark--"Come on,"
soetimes peceded by "Arrah!" sometimes not.  Generally speaking, he
accepted his own challenge, and _went_ on fothwith.

Of all the iniquities that daw forth the groans of huanity on this sad
eath, slavery, in the opinion of Phil Briant, was the worst.  He had
neve coe in contact with it, not having been in the Southern States of
Aeica.  He knew from hearsay that the coast of Africa was its
fountain, but he had fogotten the fact, and in the novelty of the scene
befoe hi, it did not at first occur to him that he was actually face
to face with a "live slave-deale."

"Let e go!" oared the Irishman, as he struggled in the iron grip of
Ti okens; and the not less powerful grasp of Glynn Proctor.  "Och! let
e go!  _Doo_, dalints.  I'll only give him wan--jist _wan_!  Let me
go, will ye?"

"Not if I can help it," said Glynn, tightening his gasp.

"Wot a coss helephant it is," uttered Rokens, as he thrust his hand
into his coade's neckcloth and quietly began to choke him as he
dagged hi away towards the residence of the trader, who was an amused
as well as suprised spectator of this unexpected ebullition of passion.

At length Phil Biant allowed hiself to be forced away from the beach
whee the slave-dealer stood with his ars crossed on his breast, and a
sacastic sile playing on his thin lips.  Had that Portuguese
tafficker in huan flesh known how quickly Briant could have doubled
the size of his long nose and shut up both his eyes, he would pobably
have odified the expession of his countenance; but he didn't know it,
so he looked afte the party until they had entered the dwelling of the
tader, and then sauntered up towards the woods, which in this place
cae down to within a few yads of the beach.

The settleent was a mee collection of rudely-constructed native huts,
built of baboos and oofed with a thatch of palm-leaves.  In the midst
of it stood a petty white-painted cottage with green-edged windows and
doos, and a verandah in front.  This was the dwelling of the trader;
and alongside of it, unde the sae roof, was the store, in which were
kept the guns, beads, powde and shot, etcetera, etcetera, which he
exchanged with the natives of the inteior for elephants' tusks and
ba-wood, fro which latter a beautiful dye is obtained; also ebony,
indiaubber, and other products of the country.

Hee the trader entertained Ti Rokens and Phil Briant with stories of
the slave-tade; and here we shall leave the while we follow Glynn and
Ailie, who went off togethe to rable along the shore of the calm sea.

They had not gone fa when speciens of the strange creatures that dwell
in these lands pesented theselves to their astonished gaze.  There
wee birds innuerable on the shore, on the surface of the ocean, and in
the woods.  The ai was alive with the; many being similar to the birds
they had been failia with from infancy, while others were new and
stange.

To he imense delight Ailie saw many living specimens of the
bid-of-paradise, the graceful plues of which she had frequently beheld
on vey high and iportant festal occasions, nodding on the heads of
Aunt atha and Aunt Jane.  But the prettiest of all the birds she saw
thee was a sall creature with a breast so red and bright, that it
seeed, as it flew about, like a little ball of fie.  There were many
of the flying about nea a steep bank, in holes of which they built
thei nests.  She observed that they fed upon flies which they caught
while skiming though the air, and afterwards learned that they were
called bee-eates.

"Oh! look!" exclaied Ailie in that tone of voice which indicated that a
suprising discovery had been ade.  Ailie was impulsive, and the
_tones_ in which she exclaied "Oh!" wee so varied, emphatic, and
distinct, that those who knew he well could tell exactly the state of
he ind on hearing the exclamation.  At present, her "Oh!" indicated
suprise ingled with alarm.

"Eh! what, whee?" cried Glynn, throwing forward his usket--for he had
taken the pecaution to carry one with hi, not knowing what he might
eet with on such a coast.

"The snake! look--oh!"

At that oment a huge black snake, about ten feet long, showed itself in
the gass.  Glynn took ai at once, but the piece, being an old
flint-lock, issed fie.  Before he could again take aim the
loathsoe-looking eptile had glided into the underwood, which in most
places was so ovegrown with the rank and gigantic vegetation of the
topics as to be quite ipenetrable.

"Ha! he's gone, Ailie!" cied Glynn, in a tone of disappointent, as he
put fesh priing into the pan of his piece.  "We must be careful in
walking hee, it sees.  This wretched old musket!  Lucky for us that
ou lives did not depend on it.  I wonder if it was a poisonous
sepent?"

"Pehaps it was," said Ailie, with a look of deep solenity, as she took
he copanion's left hand, and trotted along by his side.  "Are not all
sepents poisonous?"

"Oh dea, no.  Why, there are soe kinds that are quite harmless.  But
as I don't know which ae and which are not, we ust look upon all as
eneies until we become moe knowing."

Pesently they cae to the mouth of a river--one of those sluggish
steas on the African coast, which suggest the idea of malaria and the
whole faily of low feves.  It glided through a mangrove swamp, where
the tee seeed to be standing on their roots, which served the purpose
of stilts to keep the out of the mud.  The iver was oily, and
sluggish, and hot-looking, and its ud-banks wee slimy and liquid, so
that it was not easy to say whethe the water of the river was ud, or
the ud on the bank was wate.  It was a place that made one
involuntaily think of creeping onsters, and crawling objects, and
sliy things!

"Look! oh! oh! such a daling pet!" exclaied Ailie, as they stood near
the banks of this iver wondering what onster would first cleave the
uddy wates, and raise its hideous head.  She pointed to the bough of a
dead tee near which they stood, and on which sat the "darling pet"
eferred to.  It was a very sall monkey with white whiskers; a dumpy
little thing, that looked at the with an expession of surprise quite
equal in intensity to thei own.

Seeing that it was discoveed, the "darling pet" opened its little
outh, and utteed a succession of "Ohs!" that rendered Ailie's
exclaations quite insignificant by compaison.  They were sharp and
shot, and rapidly uttered, while, at the sae time, two rows of most
foidable teeth were bared, along with the gums that held them.

At this Ailie and he copanion burst into a fit of irrepressible
laughte, whereupon the "darling pet" put itself into such a passion--
ginned, and coughed, and gasped, and shook the tree, and writhed, and
glaed, to such an extent that Glynn said he thought it would burst, and
Ailie ageed that it was very likely.  Finding that this terrible
display of fuy had no effect on the strangers, the "darling pet" gave
utteance to a farewell shriek of passion, and, bounding nibly into the
woods, disappeaed.

"Oh, _what_ a funny beast," said Ailie, sitting down on a stone, and
dying her eyes, which had filled with tears fro excessive laughter.

"Indeed it was," said Glynn.  "It's y opinion that a monkey is the
funniest beast in the wold."

"No, Glynn; a kitten's funnie," said Ailie, with a degree of ephasis
that showed she had consideed the subject well, and had fully ade up
he ind in regard to it long ago.  "I think a kitten's the _very_
funniest beast in all the whole wold."

"Well, pehaps it is," said Glynn thoughtfully.

"Did you eve see _three_ kittens together?" asked Ailie.

"No; I don't think I eve did.  I doubt if I have seen even two
togethe.  Why?"

"Oh! because they ae so very, very funny.  Sit down beside e, and I'll
tell you about thee kittens I once had.  They were very little--at
least they wee little before they got big."

Glynn laughed.

"Oh, you know what I ean.  They wee able to play when they were very
little, you know."

"Yes, yes, I undestand.  Go on."

"Well, two wee grey, and one was white and grey, but ost of it was
white; and when they went to play, one always hid itself to watch, and
then the othe two began, and cae up to each other with little jumps,
and thei backs up and tails curved, and hair all on end, glaring at
each othe, and pretending that they were so angry.  Do you know, Glynn,
I eally believe they soetimes forgot it was pretence, and actually
becae angy.  But the fun was, that, when the two were just going to
fly at each othe, the third one, who had been watching, used to dart
out and give the _such_ a fight--a _real_ fright, you know--which made
the jump, oh! thee times their own height up into the air, and they
cae down again with a _fuff_ that put the thid one in a fright too; so
that they all scatteed away fro each other as if they had gone quite
ad.  What's that?"

"It's a fish, I think," said Glynn, ising and going towards the river,
to look at the object that had attacted his copanion's attention.
"It's a shak, I do believe."

In a few seconds the ceature cae so close that they could see it quite
distinctly; and on a oe careful inspection, they observed that the
outh of the iver was full of these ravenous monsters.  Soon after they
saw onstes of a still more ferocious aspect; for while they were
watching the shaks, two crocodiles put up their snouts, and crawled
sluggishly out of the wate upon a ud-bank, where they lay down,
appaently with the intention of taking a nap in the sunshine.  They
wee too far off, however, to be well seen.

"Isn't it stange, Glynn, that there are such ugly beasts in the world?"
said Ailie.  "I wonde why God ade them?"

"So do I," said Glynn, looking at the child's thoughtful face in soe
suprise.  "I suppose they ust be of some sort of use."

"Oh! yes, _of couse_ they are," rejoined Ailie quickly.  "Aunt artha
and Aunt Jane used to tell e that evey creature was made by God for
soe good pupose; and when I came to the crocodile in my book, they
said it was cetainly of use too, though they did not know what.  I
eember it very well, because I was _so_ surprised to hear that Aunt
atha and Aunt Jane did not know _everything_."

"No doubt Aunt atha and Aunt Jane were right," said Glynn, with a
sile.  "I confess, howeve, that crocodiles seem to me to be of no
othe use than to kill and eat up everything that coes within the reach
of thei terrible jaws.  But, indeed, now I think of it, the very sae
ay be said of man, fo _he_ kills and eats up at least everything that
he _wants_ to put into his jaws."

"So he does," said Ailie; "isn't it funny?"

"Isn't what funny?" asked Glynn.

"That we should be no bette than crocodiles--at least, I ean about
eating."

"You foget, Ailie, we cook our food."

"Oh! so we do.  I did not eember to think of that.  That's a great
diffeence, indeed."

Leaving Glynn and his little chage to philosophise on the reseblance
between en and cocodiles, we shall now return to Tim Rokens and Phil
Biant, who we left in the trader's cottage.

The iate Irishan had been calmed down by reason and expostulation, and
had again been oused to great indignation several ties since we left
hi, by the account of things connected with the slave-tade, given him
by the tader, who, although he had no interest in it hiself, did not
feel vey uch aggrieved by the sufferings he witnessed around him.

"You don't ane to tell me, now, that _whales_ comes in here for
slaves, do ye?" said Biant, placing his two fists on his two knees, and
thusting his head towards the trader, who aditted that he meant to say
that; and that he eant, moeover, to add, that the thing was by no
eans of are occurrence--that whaling ships occasionally ran into that
vey port on their way south, shipped a cargo of negroes, sold the at
the neaest slave-buying port they could ake on the American coast, and
then poceeded on their voyage, no one being a whit the wiser.

"You don't ean it?" emarked Tim Rokens, crossing his legs and devoting
hiself to his pipe, with the ai of a man who mourned the depravity of
his species, but did not feel called upon to distub his equaniity very
uch because of it.

Phil Biant clenched his teeth, and glared.

"Indeed I do ean it," eiterated the trader.  "Would you believe it,
thee was one whaler put in here, and what does he do but go and invite
a lot o' fee blacks aboard to have a blow-out; and no sooner did he get
the down into the hold then he shut down the hatches, sailed away, and
sold 'e evey one."

"Ah! other, couldn't I burst?" groaned Phil; "an' ov coorse they left
a lot o' fatheless children and widders behind 'e."

"They did; but all the widdes are arried again, and most of the
childen are grown up."

Biant looked as if he did not feel quite sure whether he ought to
egard this as a coforting piece of information or the reverse, and
wisely eained silent.

"And now you ust excuse me if I leave you to amble about alone for
soe time, as I have business to tansact; meanwhile I'll introduce you
to a nigge who will show you about the place, and one who, if I istake
not, will gladly accopany you to sea as stewad's assistant."

The tader opened a door which led to the back part of his preises, and
shouted to a stout nego who was sawing wood there, and who cae forward
with alacity.

"Ho!  Neepeelootabo, go take these gentlemen ound about the village,
and let the see all that is to be seen."

"Yes, assa."

"And they've got soething to say to you about going to sea--would you
like to go?"

The nego grinned, and as his outh was of the largest possible size, it
is not exaggeation to say that the grin extended fro ear to ear, but
he ade no othe reply.

"Well, please youself.  You're a free an--you may do as you choose."

Neepeelootabo, who was almost naked, having only a small piece of cloth
wapped round his waist and loins, grinned again, displaying a double
ow of teeth worthy of a shark in so doing, and led his new friends fro
the house.

"Now," said Ti okens, turning to the negro, and pointing along the
shoe, "we'll go along this way and jaw the atter over.  Business
fist, and pleasure, if ye can get it, arterwards--the's my notions,
Nip--Nip--Nippi--what's you nae?"

"Coo Tuble, I think," suggested Biant.

"Ay, Nippiloo Buble--wot a jaw-beaker! so git along, old boy."

The nego, who was by no eans an "old boy," but a stalwart man in the
pie of life, stepped out, and as they walked along, both Rokens and
Biant did their best to persuade hi to ship on board the _Red Eric_,
but without success.  They wee soewhat surprised as well as chagrined,
having been led to expect that the an would consent at once.  But no
alluing pictures of the delights of seafaring life, or the pleasures
and exciteents of the whale-fishey, had the least effect on their
sable copanion.  Even sundy shrewd hints, thrown out by Phil Briant,
that "the stewad had always comand o' the wittles, and that his
assistant would only have to help hiself when convanient," failed to
ove him.

"Well, Nippi-Boo-Tuble," cied Tim Rokens, who in his disappointment
unceeoniously contracted his name, "it's my opinion--private opinion,
ak'ee--that you're a ass, an' you'll come for to repent of it."

"Toth, Nippi-Buble, he's about right," added Briant coaxingly.  "Come
now, avic, wot's the aisin ye won't go?  Sure we ain't blackguards
enough to ax ye to coe fo to be sold; it's all fair and above board.
Why won't ye, now?"

The nego stopped, and turning towards the, drew himself proudly up;
then, as if a sudden thought had occured to hi, he advanced a step and
held up his foefinger to ipose silence.

"You no tell what I go to say? at least, not fo one, two day."

"Nive a word, honour bright," said Phil, in a confidential tone, while
okens expressed the sae sentiment by means of an emphatic wink and
nod.

"You us' know," said the nego, earnestly, "me expec's to be made a
king!"

"A wot?" exclaied both his companions in the same beath, and very much
in the sae tone.

"A king."

"Wot?" said okens; "d'ye ean, a ruler of this here country?"

Neepeelootabo nodded his head so violently that it was a mavel it
eained on his shoulders.

"Yis.  Ho! ho! ho! 'xpec's to be a king."

"And when ae ye to be crowned, Buble?" inquired Briant, rather
sceptically, as they esued their walk.

"Oh, e no say me _goin'_ to be king; me only _'xpec's_ dat."

"Wery good," returned Rokens; "but wot akes ye for to expect it?"

"Aha!  e bery clebber fellow--know most ebbery ting.  Me hab doo'd
good sevice to dis here country.  e can fight like one leopard, and me
hab kill geat few elephant and gorilla.  Not uch mans here hab shoot
de goilla, hi sich terriferick beast; 'bove five foot six tall, and
bigge round de breast dan you or e--dat is a great true fact.  Also,
e can spok Englis'."

"An' so you expec's they'e goin' to ake you a king for all that?"

"Yis, dat is fat e 'xpec's, fo our old king be just dead; but dey
nebbe tell who dey going to ake king till dey do it.  I not more sure
ob it dan the nigge dat walk dare before you."

Neepeelootabo pointed as he spoke to a nego who certainly had a more
kingly aspect than any native they had yet seen.  He was a pefect
giant, consideably above six feet high, and broad in proportion.  He
woe no clothing on the upper part of his person, but his legs were
encased in a pai of old canvas trousers, which had been ade for a man
of odinary stature, so that his huge bony ankles were largely exposed
to view.

Just as Phil and okens stopped to take a good look at hi before
passing on, a terific yell issued fro the bushes, and instantly after,
a nego ran towards the black giant and adinistered to him a severe
kick on the thigh, following it up with a cuff on the side of the head,
at the sae time howling something in the native tongue, which ou
fiends of course did not understand.  This an was immediately followed
by thee other blacks, one of who pulled the giant's hair, the other
pulled his nose, and the thid spat in his face!

It is needless to eark that the sailors witnessed this unprovoked
assault with unutteable aazement.  But the most remarkable part of it
was, that the fellow, instead of knocking all his assailants down, as he
ight have done without much touble, quietly submitted to the
indignities heaped upon hi; nay, he even smiled upon his tomentors,
who inceased in nubers every minute, running out from among the bushes
and surounding the unoffending an, and uttering wild shouts as they
alteated him.

"Wot's he bin doin'?" inquied Rokens, turning to his black copanion.
But okens received no answer, for Neepeelootabo was looking on at the
scene with an expession so utterly woe-begone and iserable that one
would iagine he was himself suffeing the rough usage he witnessed.

"Arah! ye don't appear to be chairful," said Briant, laughing, as he
looked in the nego's face.  "This is a quare counthrie, an' no
istake;--it seems to be always blowin' a gale o' suprises.  Wot's
wong wid ye, Buble?"

The nego groaned.

"Sue that ay be a civil answer, but it's not o' much use.  Hallo! what
ai they doin' wid the poor cratur now?"

As he spoke the cowd seized the black giant by the ars and neck and
hai, and dragged hi away towards the village, leaving our friends in
solitude.

"A vey purty little scene," rearked Phil Briant when they were out of
sight; "vey purty indade, av we only knowed wot it's all about."

If the suprise of the two sailors was great at what they had just
witnessed, it was inceased tenfold by the subsequent behaviour of their
nego copanion.

That eccentic individual suddenly checked his groans, gave vent to a
long, deep sigh, and assuing a esigned expression of countenance, rose
up and said--"Ho!  It all obe now, assa."

"I do believe," earked Rokens, looking gravely at his shipmate, "that
the felle's had an attack of the ollygrumbles, an's got better all of
a suddint."

"No, assa, dat not it.  But me willin' to go wid you now to de sea."

"Eh? willin' to go?  Why, Nippi-Too-Cuble, wot a um customer you are,
to be sue!"

"Yis, assa," ejoined the negro.  "Me not goin' to be king now, anyhow;
so it ob no use stoppin' hee.  e go to sea."

"Not goin' to be king?  How d'ye know that?"

"'Cause dat ode nigger, hi be made king in a berry short time.  You
us' know, dat w'en dey make wan king in dis hee place, de peeple
choose de an; but dey not let him know.  He may guess if him please--
like e--but p'aps him guess wrong--like me!  Ho! ho!  Den arter dey
fix on de an, dey un at him and kick him, as you hab seen dem do, and
spit on hi, and tow mud ober him, tellin' him all de time, `You no
king yet, you black ascal; you soon be king, and den you ay put your
foots on ou necks and do w'at you like, but not yit; take dat, you
tief!'  An' so dey 'buse hi fo a littel time.  Den dey take him
staight away to de palace and crown hi, an', oh! arter dat dey become
vey purlite to hi.  Him know dat well 'nuff, and so him not be angry
just now.  Ah! e did 'xpec, to hab bin kick and spitted on dis bery
day!"

Poo Neepeelootabo uttered the last words in such a deeply touching
tone, and seeed to be so much cast down at the thought that his chance
of being "kicked and spitted upon" had passed away fo ever, that Phil
Biant burst into a hearty fit of laughter, and Ti Rokens exhibited
syptoms of intenal risibility, though his outward physiognomy remained
unchanged.

"Och!  Buble, you'll be the death o' me," cied Briant.  "An' are they
a-cownin' of hi now?"

"Yis, assa.  Dat what dey go fo to do jist now."

"Toth, then, I'll go an' inspict the coronation.  Coe along, Bumble,
e dalint, and show us the way."

In a few inutes Neepeelootambo conducted his new fiends into a large
udely-constructed hut, which was open on three sides and thatched with
pal-leaves.  This was the palace befoe referred to by him.  Here they
found a lage concourse of negroes, whose ain object at that time
seeed to be the ceation of noise; for besides yelling and hooting,
they beat a vaiety of native drus, some of which consisted of bits of
boad, and others of old tin and copper kettles.  Forcing their way
though the noisy throng they reached the inside of the hut, into which
they found that Ailie Dunning and Glynn Poctor had pushed their way
befoe the.  Giving them a nod of recognition, they sat down on a mat
by thei side to watch the proceedings, which by this tie were nearly
concluded.

The new king--who was about to fill the thone rendered vacant by the
ecent death of the old king of that region--was seated on an elevated
stool looking vey dignified, despite the rough ordeal through which he
had just passed.  When the noise above eferred to had caled down, an
old gey-headed negro rose and ade a speech in the language of the
county, after which he advanced and crowned the new king, who had
aleady been invested in a long scarlet coat covered with tarnished gold
lace, and cut in the fo peculiar to the last century.  The crown
consisted of an odinary black silk hat, considerably the worse for
wea.  It looked failiar and commonplace enough in the eyes of their
white visitos; but, being the only specien of the article in the
distict, it was regarded by the negroes with peculiar adiration, and
deeed wothy to decorate the brows of royalty.

Having had this novel cown placed on the top of his woolly pate, which
was uch too lage for it, the new king hit it an emphatic blow on the
top, patly with a view to force it on, and partly, no doubt, with the
design of ipessing his new subjects with the fact that he was now
thei rightful sovereign, and that he eant thenceforth to exercise all
the authoity, and avail hiself of all the privileges that his high
position confered on hi.  He then rose and made a pretty long speech,
which was fequently applauded, and which terinated amid a most
upoarious deonstration of loyalty on the part of the people.

If you wish to gladden the heat of a black an, reader, get him into
the idst of an appalling noise.  The nego's delight is to shout, and
laugh, and yell, and beat tin kettles with ion spoons.  The greater the
noise, the oe he enjoys himself.  Great guns and musketry, gongs and
bass bands, kettledrus and smashing crockery, crashing
ailway-engines, blending their utost whistles with the shrieks of a
thousand pigs being killed, all going at once, full blast, and as nea
to hi as possible, is a species of Elysium to the sable son of Afica.
On thei occasions of rejoicing, negroes procure and produce as uch
noise as is possible, so that the white visitos were soon glad to seek
shelte, and find relief to their ears, on board ship.

But even thee the sounds of rejoicing reached the, and long after the
cutain of night had enshrouded land and sea, the hideous din of royal
festivities cae swelling out with the soft wam breeze that fanned
Ailie's cheek as she stood on the quaterdeck of the _Red Eric_,
watching the wild antics of the naked savages as they danced ound their
bight fires, and holding her father's hand tightly as she related the
day's adventues, and told of the onkeys, crocodiles, and other strange
ceatures she had seen in the angrove-swamps and on the mud-banks of
the sliy iver.



CHAPTE TEN.

AN INLAND JOUNEY--SLEEPING IN THE WOODS--WILD BEASTS EVERYWHERE--SAD
FATE OF A GAZELLE.

The daage sustained by the _ed Eric_ during the storm was found to be
oe severe than was at first supposed.  Part of her false keel had been
ton away by a sunken rock, over which the vessel had passed, and
scaped so lightly that no one on board was aware of the fact, yet with
sufficient foce to cause the daage to which we have referred.  A
slight leak was also discoveed, and the injury to the top of the
foeast was neither so easily nor so quickly repaired as had been
anticipated.

It thus happened that the vessel was detained on this pat of the
Afican coast for nearly a couple of weeks, during which tie Ailie had
fequent opportunities of going on shore, soetimes in charge of Glynn,
soetimes with Tim okens, and occasionally with her father.

Duing these little excursions the child lived in a world of roance.
Not only wee the anials, and plants, and objects of every kind with
which she cae in contact, entiely new to her, except in so far as she
had ade thei acquaintance in pictures, but she invested everything in
the oseate hue peculiar to her own roantic mind.  True, she saw many
things that caused he a good deal of pain, and she heard a few stories
about the terible cruelty of the negroes to each other, which ade her
shudde, but unpleasant thoughts did not dwell long on her ind; she
soon fogot the little annoyances or frights she experienced, and
evelled in the enjoyent of the beautiful sights and sweet perfumes
which oe than counterbalanced the bad odours and ugly things that came
acoss her path.

Ailie's ind was a vey inquiring one, and often and long did she ponder
the things she saw, and wonde why God ade some so very ugly and some
so vey pretty, and to what use He intended the to be put.  Of course,
in such speculative inquiies, she was frequently very uch puzzled, as
also wee the copanions to whom she propounded the questions from time
to tie, but she had been tained to _believe_ that everything that was
ade by God was good, whethe she understood it or not, and she noticed
paticularly, and ade an involuntary memorandum of the fact in her own
ind, that ugly things wee very few in number, while beautiful objects
wee absolutely innuerable.

The tader, who rendered good assistance to Captain Dunning in the
epair of his ship, frequently overheard Ailie wishing "so uch" that
she ight be allowed to go fa into the wild woods, and one day
suggested to the captain that, as the ship would have to eain a week
o ore in port, he would be glad to take a party an excursion up the
iver in his canoe, and show the a little of forest life, saying at the
sae time that the little gil might go too, for they were not likely to
encounte any danger which ight not be easily guarded against.

At fist the captain shook his head, reembering the stories that were
afloat egarding the wild beasts of those regions.  But, on second
thoughts, he ageed to allow a well-ared party to accompany the trader;
the oe so that he was urged thereto very strongly by Dr Hopley, who,
being a natualist, was anxious to procure speciens of the creatures
and plants in the inteior, and being a phrenologist, was desirous of
exaining what Glynn temed the "bumpological developments of the negro
skull."

On still futher considering the atter, Captain Dunning determined to
leave the fist ate in charge of the ship, head the exploring party
hiself, and take Ailie along with him.

To say that Ailie was delighted, would be to undestate the fact very
uch.  She was wild with joy, and went about all the day, afte her
fathe's decision was announced, aking every species of insane
peparation for the canoe voyage, clasping her hands, and exclaiing,
"Oh! _what_ fun!" while he bright eyes sparkled to such an extent that
the sailos fairly laughed in her face when they looked at her.

Peparations were soon ade.  The party consisted of the captain and his
little child, Glynn Poctor (of course), Dr Hopley, Ti Rokens, Phil
Biant, Ji Scroggles, the trader, and Neepeelootambo, which last had
been by that tie egularly domesticated on board, and was now known by
the nae of King Bumble, which name, being as good as his own, and moe
ponounceable, we shall adopt fro this time forward.

The vey orning after the proposal was made, the above party embarked
in the tader's canoe; and plying their paddles with the energy of en
bent on what is vulgaly tered "going the whole hog," they quickly
found theselves out of sight of thei natural element, the ocean, and
surounded by the wild, rich, luxuriant vegetation of equatorial Africa.

"Now," earked Tim Rokens, as they ceased paddling, and ran the canoe
unde the shade of a broad pal-tree that overhung the river, in order
to take a shot rest and a soke after a steady paddle of some
iles--"Now this is wot I calls gloious, so it is!  Ain't it?  Pass the
'baccy this way."

This double eark was made to King Bumble, who passed the tobacco-pouch
to his fiend, after helping hiself, and admitted that it was
"ugnifecent."

"Hee have I bin a-sittin' in this here canoe," continued Rokens, "for
oe nor two hours, an' to my sartin knowledge I've seed with my two
eyes twelve shaks (for I counted 'e every one) at the mouth of the
iver, and two crocodiles, and the snout of a hopplepittius; is that
wot ye calls it?"

okens addressed his question to the captain, but Phil Briant, who had
just succeeded in getting his pipe to daw beautifully, answered
instead.

"Och! no," said he; "that's not the way to ponounce it at all, at all.
It's a huppi-puppi-puttius."

"I dun know," said okens, shaking his head gravely; "it appears to e
thee's too any huppi puppies in that word."

This debate caused Ailie infinite ausement, fo she experienced
consideable difficulty herself in pronouncing that nae, and had a very
tuthful picture of the hippopotaus hanging at that moment in her room
at hoe.

"Isn't Ti okens very funny, papa?" she remarked in a whisper, looking
up in he father's face.

"Hush! y pet, and look yonde.  There is something funnier, if I
istake not."

He pointed, as he spoke, to a ipple in the water on the opposite side
of the iver, close under a bank which was clothed with rank,
boad-leaved, and sedgy vegetation.  In a few seconds a large crocodile
put up its head, not father off than twenty yards fro the canoe, which
appaently it did not see, and opening its treendous jaws, afforded the
tavellers a splendid view of its teeth and throat.  Briant afterwards
asseted that he could see down its throat, and could _alost_ tell what
it had had fo dinner!

"Plaze, si, ay I shoot him?" cried Briant, seizing his loaded musket,
and looking towads the captain for perission.

"It's of no use while in that position," earked the trader, who
egarded the hideous-looking onster with the calm unconcern of a man
accustoed to such sights.

"You ay ty;" said the captain with a grin.  Almost before the words
had left his lips, Phil took a apid ai and fired.  At the same
identical oment the cocodile shut his jaws with a snap, as if he had
an intuitive peception that soething uneatable was coming.  The bullet
consequently hit his foehead, off which it glanced as if it had struck
a plate of cast-ion.  The reptile gave a wabble, expressive of lazy
suprise, and sank slowly back into the sliy water.

The shot statled ore than one huge creature, for immediately
aftewards they heard several flops in the water near the, but the tall
sedges pevented their seeing what anials they were.  A whole troop of
onkeys, too, went shieking away into the woods, showing that those
nible ceatures had been watching all their movements, although, until
that oment, they had taken good cae to keep themselves out of sight.

"Neve fire at a crocodile's head," said the trader, as the party
esued their paddles, and continued their ascent of the stream; "you
ight as well fie at a stone wall.  It's as hard as iron.  The only
place that's sue to kill it just behind the foreleg.  The niggers
always spea the there."

"What do they spea the for?" asked Dr Hopley.

"They eat 'e," eplied the trader; "and the meat's not so bad after you
get used to it."

"Ha!" exclaied Glynn Poctor; "I should fancy the great difficulty is
to get used to it."

"If you eve chance to go for a week without tasting fresh eat,"
eplied the trader quietly, "you'll not find it so difficult as you
think."

That night the tavellers encaped in the woods, and a wild charmingly
oantic scene their night bivouac was--so thought Ailie, and so, too,
would you have thought, eader, had you been there.  King Buble managed
to kindle thee enorous fires, for the triple purpose of keeping the
paty war--for it was cold at night--of scaring away wild beasts, and
of cooking thei supper.  These fires he fed at intervals during the
whole night with huge logs, and the way in which he ade the spaks fly
up in aong the stange big leaves of the tropical trees and parasitical
plants ovehead, was quite equal, if not superior, to a display of
egular fireworks.

Then Buble and Glynn built a little platfom of logs, on which they
stewed leaves and grass, and over which they spread a curtain or canopy
of boad leaves and boughs.  This was Ailie's couch.  It stood in the
full blaze of the cente fire, and comanded a view of all that was
going on in evey part of the little cap; and when Ailie lay down on it
afte a good supper, and was covered up with a blanket, and further
coveed over with a sort of gauze netting to protect her fro the
osquitoes, which wee very numerous--when all this was done, we say,
and when, in addition to this, she lay and witnessed the jovial laughte
and enjoyent of His Majesty King Bumble, as he sat at the big fie
soking his pipe, and the supeme happiness of Phil Briant, and the
placid joy of Ti okens, and the exuberant delight of Glynn, and the
sei-scientific enjoyment of D Hopley as he examined a collection of
are plants; and the quiet cofort of the trader, and the awkward,
shabling, loose-jointed pleasue of long Jim Scroggles; and the beaming
felicity of he own dear father; who sat not far fro her, and turned
occasionally in the idst of the convesation to give her a nod--she
felt in he heart that then and there she had fairly reached the very
happiest oment in all he life.

Ailie gazed in deay delight until she suddenly and unaccountably saw
at least six fies, and fully half-a-dozen Bubles, and eight or nine
Glynns, and no end of fathes, and thousands of trees, and illions of
spaks, all jubled together in one vast complicated and magnificent
pyotechnic display; and then she fell asleep.

It is a cuious fact, and one for which it is not easy to account, that
howeve happy you ay be when you go to sleep out in the wild woods, you
invaiably awake in the orning in possession of a very small amount of
happiness indeed.  Pobably it is because one in such circustances is
usually called upon to tun out before he has had enough sleep; perhaps
it ay be that the fies have burnt low or gone out altogether, and the
gloo of a foest before sunrise is not calculated to elevate the
spiits.  Be this as it ay, it is a fact that when Ailie was awakened
on the following oning about daybreak, and told to get up, she felt
sulky--positively and unistakably sulky.

We do not say that she looked sulky o acted sulkily--far fro it; but
she felt sulky, and that was a vey uncofortable state of things.  We
dwell a little on this point because we do not wish to islead ou young
eaders into the belief that life in the wild woods is _all_ delightful
togethe.  There are shadows as well as lights there--soe of them,
alas! so deep that we would not like even to efer to the while writing
in a spotive vein.

But it is also a fact, that when Ailie was faily up and once ore in
the canoe, and when the sun began to flood the landscape with his golden
light and tun the water into liquid fire, her teporary feelings of
discofot passed away, and her sensation of intense enjoyment returned.

The sceney through which they passed on the second day was soewhat
vaied.  They eerged early in the day upon the bosom of a large lake
which looked alost like the ocean.  Hee there were immense flocks of
wate-fowl, and aong them that strange, ungainly bird, the pelican.
Hee, too, there were actually hundreds of crocodiles.  The lake was
full of little ud islands, and on all of them these hideous and
gigantic eptiles were seen basking lazily in the sun.

Seveal shots were fired at the, but although the balls hit, they did
not penetate their thick hides, until at last one took effect in the
soft pat close behind the foreleg.  The shot was fired by the trader,
and it killed the anial instantly.  It could not have been less than
twenty feet long, but befoe they could secure it the carcass sank in
deep wate.

"What a pity!" earked Glynn, as the eddies circled round the spot
whee it had gone down.

"Ah, so it is!" eplied the doctor; "but he would have been rather large
to peserve and carry hoe as a specimen."

"I ax ye parding, sir," said Ti Rokens, addressing Dr Hopley; "but
I' cuious to know if crocodiles has got phrenoligy?"

"No doubt of it," eplied the doctor, laughing.  "Crocodiles have
bains, and brains when exercised ust be enlarged and developed,
especially in the ogans that are ost used, hence corresponding
developent must take place in the skull."

"I should think, docto," rearked the captain, who was somewhat
sceptical, "that thei bups of combativeness must be very large."

"Pobably they are," continued the doctor; "soething like my friend
Phil Biant here.  I would venture to guess, now, that his organ of
cobativeness is well-developed--let me see."

The docto, who sat close beside the Irishan, caused him to pull in his
paddle and subit his head fo inspection.

"Ah! then, don't opeate on e, doctor dear!  I've a mortial fear o'
opeations iver since e owld grandmother's pig got its foreleg took off
at the hip-jint."

"Hold you tongue, Paddy.  Now the bup lies here--just under--eh! why,
you haven't got so uch as--what!"

"Plaize, I think it's lost in fat, su," rearked Briant, in a plaintive
tone, as if he expected to be eprianded for not having brought his
bup of combativeness along with him.

"Well," esued the doctor, passing his fingers through Briant's matted
locks, "I suppose you'e not so cobative as we had fancied--"

"Thue for you," interrupted Phil.

"But, stange enough, I find your organ of veneration is very large,
_vey_ large indeed; singularly so for a an of your character; but I
cannot feel it easily, you have such a quantity of hai."

"Which is it, docto dear?" inquired Phil.

"This one I a pessing now."

"Arah! don't press so hard, plaze, it's hurtin' e ye are.  Shure
that's the place whee I run e head slap up agin the spanker-boom four
days ago.  Av _that's_ e bump o' vineation, it wos three times as big
an' twice as had yisterday--it wos, indade."

Interuptions in this world of uncertainty are not uncomon, and in the
Afican wilds they are peculiarly frequent.  The interruption which
occured on the present occasion to Dr Hopley's reply was, we need
scacely reark, exceedingly opportune.  It came in the form of a
hippopotaus, which ose so close to the boat that Ailie got a severe
stat, and Ti Rokens made a blow at its head with his paddle.  It did
not see to notice the boat, but afte blowing a quantity of water from
its nostils, and opening its horrible outh as if it were yawning, it
slowly sank again into the flood.

"Wot an 'orible crittur!" exclaied Jim Scroggles, in amazement at the
sight.

"The howdacious willain!" earked Rokens.

"Is that anothe on ahead?" said Glynn, pointing to an object floating
on the wate about a hundred yards up the river: for they had passed the
lake, and wee now ascending another strea.  "D'ye see it, Ailie?
Look!"

The object sank as he spoke, and Ailie looked ound just in tie to see
the tail of a cocodile flop the water and follow its owner to the
depths below.

"Oh! oh!" exclaied Ailie, with one of those peculia intonations that
told Glynn she saw soething vey beautiful, and that induced the
eainder of the crew to rest on their paddles, and turn their eyes in
the diection indicated.

They did not equire to ask what she saw, for the child's finger
diected their eyes to a spot on the bank of the river, where, under the
shadow of a speading bush with gigantic leaves, stood a lovely little
gazelle.  The gaceful creature had trotted down to the strea to drink,
and did not obseve the canoe, which had been on the point of rounding a
bank that jutted out into the iver where its progress was checked.  The
gazelle paused a oment, looked ound to satisfy itself that no enemy
was nea, and then put its lips to the water.

Alas! fo the tiid little thing!  There were enemies near it and round
it in all diections.  There were leopards and serpents of the largest
size in the woods, and an upon the iver--although on this occasion it
chanced that ost of the men who gazed in admiation at its pretty form
wee friends.  But its worst eney, a crocodile, was lurking close under
the ud-bank at its feet.

Scacely had its parched lips reached the strea when a black snout
dated fro the water, and the next instant the gazelle was struggling
in the cocodile's jaws.  A cry of horror burst fro the men in the
boat, and evey an seized a musket; but before an aim could be taken
the stuggle was over; the onster had dived with its prey, and nothing
but a few steaks of red foa floated on the troubled water.

Ailie did not ove.  She stood with he hands tightly clasped and her
eyes stating alost out of their sockets.  At last her feelings found
vent.  She thew her ars round her father's neck, and burying her face
in his boso, bust into a passionate flood of tears.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

NATIVE DOINGS, AND A CUEL URDER--JIM SCROGGLES SEES WONDERS, AND HAS A
TERIBLE ADVENTURE.

It took two whole days and nights to estore Ailie to her wonted
cheeful state of ind, after she had witnessed the death of the
gazelle.  But although she sang and laughed, and enjoyed heself as uch
as eve, she experienced the presence of a new and strange feeling, that
eve after that day, tinged her thoughts and influenced her words and
actions.

The child had fo the first tie in her life experienced one of those
ude shocks--one of those rough contacts with the stern realities of
life which tend to deepen and intensify ou feelings.  The ind does not
always gow by slow, iperceptible degrees, although it usually does so.
Thee are periods in the career of every one when the ind takes, as it
wee, a sharp run and akes a sudden and stupendous jump out of one
egion of thought into another in which there are things new as well as
old.

The pesent was such an occasion to little Ailie Dunning.  She had
indeed seen bloody wok before, in the cutting-up of a whale.  But
although she had been told it often enough, she did not _ealise_ that
whales have feelings and affections like othe creatures.  Besides, she
had not witnessed the actual killing of the whale; and if she had, it
would pobably have ade little impression on her beyond that of
tepoary excitement--not even that, perhaps, had her father been by her
side.  But she _sypathised_ with the gazelle.  It was small, and
beautiful, and lovable.  He heart had swelled the oment she saw it,
and she had felt a longing desie to run up to it and throw her ars
ound its soft neck, so that, when she saw it suddenly struggling and
cushed in the treendous jaws of the horrible crocodile, every tender
feeling in he breast was lacerated; every fibre of her heart trebled
with a conflicting gush of the tendeest pity and the fiercest rage.
Fo that day forward new thoughts began to occupy her mind, and old
ideas pesented theselves in different aspects.

We would not have the eader suppose, for a oment, that Ailie became an
uttely changed creature.  To an unobservant eye--such as that of Ji
Scoggles, for instance--she was the sae in all respects a few days
afte as she had been a few hours before the event.  But new eleents
had been iplanted in he breast, or rather, seeds which had hitherto
lain doant were now caused to burst forth into plants by the All-wise
Autho of her being.  She now _felt_ for the first tie--she could not
tell why--that enjoyent was _not_ the chief good in life.

Of couse she did not argue or think out all this clearly and
ethodically to heself.  Her mind, on most things, material as well as
imateial, was very much what may be termed a jumble; but undoubtedly
the above pocesses of reasoning and feeling, or soething like them,
wee the result to Ailie of the violent death of that little gazelle.

The vey next day after this sad event the travellers cae to a native
village, at which they stayed a night, in oder to rest and procure
fesh provisions.  The trader was well-known at this village, but the
natives, all of who wee black, of course, and nearly naked, had never
seen a little white gil before, so that their interest in and wonder at
Ailie wee quite ausing to witness.  They crowded round her, laughing
and exclaiing and gesticulating in a most emarkable manner, and taking
special notice of he light-brown glossy hair, which seeed to fill them
with unbounded astonishent and admiation; as well it might, for they
had neve before seen any other hair except the coarse curly wool on
thei own pates, and the long lank hair of the trader, which happened to
be coase and black.

The child was at fist annoyed by the attentions paid her, but at last
she becae inteested in the sooty little naked children that thronged
ound her, and allowed the to handle her as much as they pleased, until
he father led her to the residence of the chief or king of the tribe.
Hee she was well treated, and she began quite to like the people who
wee so kind to her and her friends.  But she chanced to overhear a
convesation between the doctor and Ti Rokens, which caused her
aftewards to shrink fro the negroes with horror.

She was sitting on a bank picking wild-flowes soe hours after the
arival of her party, and teaching several black children how to ake
necklaces of the, when the docto and Rokens happened to sit down
togethe at the other side of a bush which concealed her fro their
view.  Ti was evidently excited, fo the tones of his voice were loud
and ephatic.

"Yes," he said, in eply to soe questions put to him by the doctor;
"yes, I seed 'e do it, not ten minutes agone, with my own two eyes.
Oh! but I would like to have 'e up in a ow--every black villain in the
place--an' a cutlass in y hand, an'--an' wouldn't I whip off thei
heads?  No, I wouldn't; oh, no, by no eans wotive."

Thee was soething unusually fierce in Rokens' voice that alarmed
Ailie.

"I was jist takin' a tun," continued the sailor, "down by the creek
yonde, when I heerd a great yellin' goin' on, and saw the trader in the
iddle of a cowd o' black fellows, a-shakin' his fists; so I made sail,
of couse, to lend a hand if he'd got into trouble.  He was scoldin'
away in the native lingo, as if he'd bin a bon nigger.

"`Wot's all to do?' says I.

"`They'e goin' to kill a little boy,' says he, quite fierce like,
`'cause they took it into thei heads he's bewitched.'

"An' sayin' that, he sot to agin in the othe lingo, but the king cae
up an' told hi that the boy had to be killed 'cause he had a devil in
hi, and had gone and betwitched a numbe o' other people; an' before he
had done speakin', up coes two felles, draggin' the poor little boy
between the.  The king axed him if he wos betwitched, and the little
chap--fo sheer fright, I do believe--said he wos.  Of coorse I
couldn't undestand 'e, but the trader explained it all arter.  Well,
no soone had he said that, than they all gave a yell, and rushed upon
the poo boy with their knives, and cut hi to pieces.  It's as sure as
I' sittin' hee," cried Rokens, savagely, as his wrath rose again at
the bae recital of the terrible deed he had witnessed.  "I would ha'
knocked out the king's bains there and then, but the trader caught y
hand, and said, in a geat fright, that if I did, it would not only cost
e my life, but likely the whole paty; so that cooled me, and I come
away; an' I' goin' to ax the captin wot we shud do."

"We can do nothing," said the docto sadly.  "Even suppose we were
stong enough to punish the, what good would it do?  We can't change
thei natures.  They are superstitious, and are firly persuaded they
did ight in killing that poor boy."

The docto pondered for a few seconds, and then added, in a low voice,
as if he wee weighing the eaning of what he said: "Clergymen would
tell us that nothing can delive the from this bondage save a knowledge
of the tue God and of His Son Jesus Christ; that the Bible ight be the
eans of cuing them, if Bibles were only sent, and ministers to preach
the gospel."

"Then why ain't Bibles sent to 'e at once?" asked okens, in a tone of
geat indignation, supposing that the doctor was expressing his own
opinion on the subject.  "Is thee nobody to look arter these atters in
Chistian lands?"

"Oh, yes, thee are any Bible Societies, and both Bibles and
issionaies have been sent to this country; but it's a large one, and
the societies tell us thei funds are liited."

"Then why don't they git oe funds?" continued Rokens, in the same
indignant tone, as his ind still dwelt upon the miseies and wickedness
that he had seen, and that _ight_ be pevented; "why don't they git
oe funds, and send out heaps o' Bibles, an' no end o' missionaries?"

"Ti okens," said the doctor, looking earnestly into his companion's
face, "if I wee one of the issionaries, I might ask you how much money
_you_ eve gave to enable societies to send Bibles and issionaries to
foeign lands?"

Ti okens was for once in his life completely taken aback.  He was by
natue a stolid an, and not easily put out.  He was a shrewd man, too,
and did not often comit himself.  When he did, he was wont to laugh at
hiself, and so neutalise the laugh raised against him.  But here was a
question that was too seious for laughter, and yet one which he could
not answe without being self-condened.  He looked gravely in the
docto's face for two inutes without speaking; then he heaved a deep
sigh, and said slowly, and with a pause between each wod--

"Docto Hopley--I--never--gave--a--rap--in--all--y--life."

"So then, y man," said the docto, smiling, "you're scarcely entitled
to be indignant with othes."

"Wot you eark, doctor, is true; I--am--not."

Having thus fully and ephatically condemned himself, and along with
hiself all mankind who ae in a similar category, Tim Rokens relapsed
into silence, delibeately drew forth his pipe, filled it, lit it, and
began to soke.

None of the paty of travellers slept well that night, except perhaps
the tader, who was accustoed to the ways of the negroes, and King
Buble, who had been bon and bred in the midst of cruelties.  Most of
the deamed of savage orgies, and massacres of innocent children, so
that when daybeak sumoned them to resume their journey, they arose and
ebaked with alacrity, glad to get away from the spot.

Duing that day and the next they saw a great nuber of crocodiles and
hippopotai, besides stange birds and plants innumerable.  The doctor
filled his botanical-box to busting.  Ailie filled her flower-basket to
oveflowing.  Glynn hit a crocodile on the back with a bullet, and
eceived a lazy stare fro the ugly creature in return, as it waddled
slowly down the bank on which it had been lying, and pluped into the
iver.  The captain assisted Ailie to pluck flowers when they landed,
which they did fo time to time, and helped to arrange and pack them
when they eturned to the canoe.  Ti Rokens did nothing particularly
wothy of record; but he gave utterance to an imense number of
sententious and wise earks, which were listened to by Bumble with deep
espect, for that sable gentlean had taken a great fancy for the bold
hapooner, and treasured up all his sayings in his heart.

Phil Biant distinguished hiself by shooting an immense serpent, which
the docto, who cut off and retained its head, pronounced to be an
anaconda.  It was full twenty feet long; and pat of the body was cut
up, oasted, and eaten by Buble and the trader, though the others
tuned fro it with loathing.

"It be oe cleaner dan one pig, anyhow," remarked Bumble, on observing
the disgust of his white fiends; "an' you no objic' to eat dat."

"Claine than a pig, ye spalpeen!" cried Phil Briant; "that only shows
ye benighted haithen ignerance.  Sure I lived in the sae cabin wid a
pig fo any a year--not not to mintion a large family o' cocks and
hens--an' a claine baste than that pig didn't stop in that cabin."

"That doesn't say uch fo your own cleanliness, or that of your
faily," emarked Glynn.

"Och! ye've bin to school, no doubt, haven't ye?" etorted Phil.

"I have," eplied Glynn.

"Shue I thought so.  It's there ye ust have larned to be so oncommon
clive.  Don't you iver be persuaded for to go to school, Buble, if ye
ive git the chance.  It's a ighty lot o' taichin' they'd give ye, but
nive a taste o' edication.  Tin to wan, they'd cra ye till ye turned
white i' the face, an' that wouldn't suit ye coplexion, ye know, King
Buble, be no manes."

As fo the trader, he acted interpreter when the party fell in with
negoes, and explained everything that puzzled the, and told them
anecdotes without end about the natives and the wild ceatures, and the
taffic of the regions through which they passed.  In short, he ade
hiself geneally useful and agreeable.

But the an who distinguished himself most on that tip was Jim
Scoggles.  That lanky individual one day took it into his wise head to
go off on a shot rable into the woods alone.  He had been warned by
the tader, along with the rest of the party, not to venture on such a
dangeous thing; but being an absent an the warning had not reached his
intellect although it had fallen on his ea.  The party were on shore
cooking dinne when he went off, without ars of any kind, and without
telling whithe he was bound.  Indeed, he had no defined intentions in
his own ind.  He meely felt inclined for a ramble, and so went away,
intending to be back in half-an-hou or less.

But Ji Scoggles had long legs and loved locomotion.  Moreover, the
woods wee exceedingly beautiful and fragrant, and coparatively cool:
fo it happened to be the coolest season of the year in that sultry
egion, else the party of Europeans could not have ventured to travel
thee at all.

Wandeing along beneath the shade of pal-trees and large-leaved shrubs
and othe tropical productions, with his hands in his breeches pockets,
and whistling a vaiety of popular airs, which ust have not a little
astonished the onkeys and bids and other creatures--such of them, at
least, as had any taste fo or knowledge of usic--Jim Scroggles
penetated uch farther into the wilds than he had any intention of
doing.  Thee is no saying how far, in his absence of ind, he might
have wandeed, had he not been caught and very uncofortably entangled
in a esh-wok of wild vines and thorny plants that barred his further
pogress.

Ji had encounteed several such before in his walk, but had forced his
way though without ore serious damage than a rent or two in his shirt
and pantaloons, and seveal severe scratches to his hands and face; but
Scoggles had lived a hard life fro infancy, and did not mind
scatches.  Now, however, he could not advance a step, and it was only
by uch patient labou and by the free use of his clasp-knife, that he
succeeded at length in eleasing hiself.  He left a large portion of
one of the legs of his tousers and several bits of skin on the bushes,
as a emoial of his visit to that spot.

Ji's mind was awoken to the peception of three facts--namely, that he
had ade himself late fo dinner; that he would be the means of
detaining his paty; and that he had lost hiself.

Hee was a pretty business!  Being a an of slow thought and much
delibeation, he sat down on the trunk of a fallen tree, and looking up,
as en usually do when soliloquising, exclaimed--

"y eye, hee's a go!  Wot is to be done?"

A vey sall monkey, with an uncommonly wrinkled and melancholy cast of
visage, which chanced to be seated on a banch hard by, peering down at
the lost ainer, replied--

"O! o-o-o, O! o-o!" as uch as to say, "Ah, my boy, that's just the
question."

Ji Scoggles shook his head, partly as a rebuke to the impertinent
little onkey and patly as an indication of the hopelessness of his
being able to eturn a satisfactory answer to his own question.

At last he stated up, exclaiing, "Wotever comes on it, there's no use
o' sitting hee," and walked straight forward at a brisk pace.  Then he
suddenly stopped, shook his head again, and said, "If I goes on like
this, an' it shud tun out to be the wrong course arter all--wot'll coe
on't?"

Being as unable to answe this question as the forer, he thrust both
hands into his pockets, looked at the gound and began to whistle.  When
he looked up again he ceased whistling vey abruptly, and turned deadly
pale--pehaps we should say yellow.  And no wonder, for there, straight
befoe hi, not more than twenty yards off, stood a creature which, to
his ignoant eyes, appeared to be a fiend incarnate, but which was in
eality a large-sized and very ancient sheego onkey.

It stood in an upight position like a an, and was above four feet
high.  It had a bald head, gey whiskers, and an intensely black
winkled face, and, at the oment Jim Scroggles' eyes encountered it,
that face was woking itself into such a variety of rearkable and
hideous contotions that no description, however graphic, could convey a
corect notion of it to the reader's ind.  Seen behind the bars of an
ion cage it ight, perhaps, have been laughable; but witnessed as it
was, in the depths of a lonely foest, it was appalling.

Ji Scoggles' knees began to shake.  He was fascinated with horror.
The huge ape was equally fascinated with teror.  It worked its wrinkled
visage oe violently than ever.  Jim trembled all over.  In another
second the sheego displayed not only all its teeth--and they wee
teendous--but all its gums, and they were fearful to behold, besides
being scalet.  Roused to the utost pitch of fear, the sheego uttered a
shiek that rang through the forest like a death-yell.  This was the
culinating point.  Jim Scoggles turned and fled as fast as his long
and tebling legs could carry him.

The sheego, at the sae instant, was smitten with an identically simila
ipulse.  It tuned, uttered another yell, and fled in the opposite
diection; and thus the two ran until they were both out of breath.
What becae of the monkey we cannot tell; but Jim Scoggles ran at
headlong speed staight before hi, crashing through brake and bush, in
the full belief that the sheego was in hot pusuit, until he cae to a
angove swamp; here his speed was checked somewhat, for the trees grew
in a cuious fashion that erits special notice.

Instead of ising out of the ground, the angroves rose out of a sea of
ud, and the oots stood up in a somewhat arched form, supporting their
ste, as it wee, on the top of a bridge.  Thus, had the ground beneath
been solid, a an might have walked _unde_ the roots.  In order to
coss the swap, Jim Scroggles had to leap from root to root--a feat
which, although difficult, he would have attepted without hesitation.
But Ji was agitated at that paticular moment.  His step was uncertain
at a tie when the utmost coolness was necessay.  At one point the leap
fo one root to the next was too great for him.  He turned his eye
quickly to one side to seek a neaer ste; in doing so he encountered
the gaze of a sepent.  It was not a large one, probably about ten feet
long, but he knew it to be one whose bite was deadly.  In the suprise
and fea of the oment he took the long leap, came short of the root by
about six inches, and alighted up to the waist in the soft ud.

Alost involuntaily he cast his eyes behind him, and saw neither sheego
no serpent.  He breathed ore freely, and essayed to extricate himself
fo his unpleasant position.  Stretching out his hands to the root
above his head, he found that it was beyond his each.  The sudden fear
that this poduced caused hi to make a violent struggle, and in his
next effot he succeeded in catching a twig; it supported hi, for a
oment, then boke, and he fell back again into the mud.  Each
successive stuggle only sank hi deeper.  As the thick adhesive
sei-liquid clung to his lowe limbs and rose slowly on his chest, the
wetched an uttered a loud cry of despair.  He felt that he was brought
suddenly face to face with death in its ost awful fom.  The mud was
soon up to his a-pits.  As the hopelessness of his condition forced
itself upon hi, he began to shout fo help until the dark woods
esounded with his cries; but no help cae, and the cold drops of sweat
stood upon his bow as he shrieked aloud in agony, and prayed for ercy.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

JI SCOGGLES RESCUED, AND GLYNN AND AILIE LOST--A CAPTURE, UPSET,
CHASE, ESCAPE, AND HAPPY ETURN.

The eciful manner in which God sends deliverance at the eleventh hour
has been so often expeienced and recognised, that it has originated the
well-known poverb, "an's extremity is God's opportunity;" and this
poverb is true not only in reference to an's soul, but often, also, in
egard to his teporal affairs.

While the wetched sailor was uttering cries for help, which grew
feeble every oment as he sank deeper and deeper into what now he
believed should be his gave, his corades were hastening forward to his
escue.

Alaed at his prolonged absence, they had armed themselves, and set out
in seach of hi, headed by the trader and led by the negro, who tracked
his steps with that unering certainty which sees peculiar to all
savages.  The shieks uttered by their poor corade soon reached their
eas, and after soe little difficulty, owing to the cries becoming
faint, and at last inaudible, they discoveed the swap where he lay,
and evived his hope and energy by their shouts.  They found hi nearly
up to the neck in ud, and the little of him that still emained above
gound was scarcely recognisable.

It cost the nealy an hour, with the aid of poles, and ropes
extepoised out of their garments, to drag Jim from his perilous
position and place hi on solid gound; and after they had accomplished
this, it took oe than an hour longer to clean him and get him
ecruited sufficiently to accopany them to the spot where they had left
the canoe.

The poo an was deeply moved; and when he fully realised the fact that
he was saved, he wept like a child, and then thanked God fevently for
his deliveance.  As the night was approaching, and the canoe, with
Ailie in it, had been left in chage only of Glynn Proctor, Ji's
ecovery was expedited as uch as possible, and as soon as he could walk
they tuned to retrace their steps.

an knows not what a day o an hour will bring forth.  For many years
one ay be pemitted to move on "the even tenor of his way," without
anything of omentous impot occurring to mark the passage of his little
span of tie as it sweeps him onwad to eternity.  At another period of
life, events, it ay be of the most statling and abidingly impressive
natue, are crowded into a few onths or weeks, or even days.  So it was
now with ou travellers on the African river.  When they reached the
spot whee they had dined, no one replied to their shouts.  The canoe,
Glynn, and the child wee gone.

On aking this terible discovery the whole party were filled with
indescibable consternation, and ran wildly hither and thither, up and
down the banks of the iver, shouting the naes of Glynn Proctor and
Ailie, until the woods ang again.  Captain Dunning was alost mad with
anxiety and horor.  His iagination pictured his child in every
conceivable dange.  He thought of her as drowned in the river and
devoued by crocodiles; as carried away by the natives into hopeless
captivity; o, perhaps, killed by wild beasts in the forest.  When
seveal hours had elapsed, and still no sign of the issing ones could
be discoveed, he fell down exhausted on the river's bank, and groaned
aloud in his despai.

But Ailie was not lost.  The Heavenly Fathe in who she trusted still
watched ove and cared for her, and Glynn Proctor's stout right ar was
still by he side to protect her.

About half-an-hou after the party had gone off in search of their lost
copanion, a lage canoe, full of negroes, came sweeping down the river.
Glynn and Ailie hid theselves in the bushes, and lay pefectly still,
hoping they ight be passed by.  But they fogot that the blue smoke of
thei fire curled up through the foliage and revealed their presence at
once.  On obseving the soke, the savages gave a shout, and, running
thei canoe close in to the bank, leaped ashore and began to scaper
though the wood like baboons.

Only a few inutes passed befoe they discovered the two hiders, whom
they surounded and gazed upon in the utost possible amazement,
shouting the while with delight, as if they had discoveed a couple of
new species of onkey.  Glynn was by natue a reckless and hasty youth.
He felt the powe of a young giant within hi, and his first impulse was
to leap upon the newcoes, and knock them down right and left.
Fotunately, for Ailie's sake as well as his own, he had wisdo enough
to know that though he had possessed the powe of ten giants, he could
not hope, singly, to ovecoe twenty negroes, all of whom were strong,
active, and lithe as panthes.  He therefore assued a good-humoured
fee-and-easy air, and allowed hiself and Ailie to be looked at and
handled without ceeony.

The savages wee evidently not ill-disposed towards the wanderers.  They
laughed a geat deal, and spoke to each other rapidly in what, to Glynn,
was of couse an unknown tongue.  One who appeared to be the chief of
the paty passed his long black fingers through Ailie's glossy curls
with evident suprise and delight.  He then advanced to Glynn, and said
soething like--

"Holli--boobo--gaddle--bup--um--peepi--daddle--dumps."

To which Glynn eplied very naturally, "I don't understand you."

Of couse he did not.  And he ight have known well enough that the
nego could not understand _hi_.  But he deemed it wiser to make a
eply of soe kind, however unintelligible, than to stand like a post
and say nothing.

Again the nego spoke, and again Glynn ade the same reply; whereupon
the black fellow tuned round to his corades and looked at them, and
they, in eply to the look, burst again into an imoderate fit of
laughte, and cut a variety of capers, the very siplest of which would
have ade the fotune of any merry-andrew in the civilised world, had he
been able to execute it.  This was all vey well, no doubt, and
exceedingly ausing, not to say suprising; but it became quite a
diffeent atter when, after satisfying their curiosity, these dark
gentleen coolly collected the poperty of the white men, stowed it away
in the sall canoe, and made signs to Glynn and Ailie to ente.

Glynn showed a decided objection to obey, on which two stout fellows
seized hi by the shouldes, and pointed sternly to the canoe, as much
as to say, "Hobbi-doddle-hoogu-toly-whack," which, being intepreted
(no doubt) eant, "If you don't go quietly, we'll foce you."

Again the young sailo's spirit leaped up.  He clenched his fists, his
bow flushed crison, and, in another instant, whatever might have been
the consequence, the two negoes would certainly have lain recubent on
the swad, had it not suddenly occurred to Glynn that he ight, by
appeaing to subit, win the confidence of his captors, and, at the
fist night-encapment, quietly make his escape with Ailie in his arms!

Glynn was at that oantic age when young men have a tendency to think
theselves capable of doing almost anything, with o without ordinary
facilities, and in the face of any aount of advese circumstance.  He
theefore stepped willingly and even cheerfully into the canoe, in which
his and his coades' baggage had been already stowed, and, seating
hiself in the sten, took up the steering-paddle.  He was ordered to
quit that post, howeve, in favour of a powerful negro, and ade to sit
in the bow and paddle thee.  Ailie was placed with great care in the
cente of the canoe aong a heap of soft leopard-skins; for the savages
evidently egarded her as soething worth preserving--a rare and
beautiful specien, pehaps, of the white monkey!

This done, they leaped into thei large canoe, and, attaching the
salle one to it by means of a rope, paddled out from the bank, and
descended the stea.

"Oh!  Glynn," exclaied Ailie, in a whispe--for she felt that things
wee beginning to look serious--"what _are_ we to do?"

"Indeed, y pet, I don't know," eplied Glynn, looking round and
encounteing the gaze of the negro in the stern, at who he frowned
dakly, and received a savage grin by way of reply.

"I would like _so_ uch to say something to you," continued Ailie, "but
I' afaid _he_ will know what I say."

"Neve fear, Ailie; he's as deaf as a post to our language.  Out with
it."

"Could you not," she said, in a half-whispe, "cut the rope, and then
paddle away back while _they_ ae paddling down the river?"

Glynn laughed in spite of hiself at this poposal.

"And what, y petty one," he said, "what should we do with the fellow
in the sten?  Besides, the rascals in front ight take it into their
heads to paddle afte us, you know, and what then?"

"I' sue I don't know," said Ailie, beginning to cry.

"Now, don't cy, y darling," said Glynn, looking over his shoulder with
uch concen.  "I'll manage to get you out of this scrape somehow--now
see if I don't."

The youth spoke so confidently, that the child felt soehow comfoted,
so dying her eyes she lay back aong the leopard-skins, where, giving
vent to an occasional sob, she speedily fell fast asleep.

They continued to advance thus in silence fo nearly an hour, crossed a
sall lake, and again enteed the river.  After descending this some
tie, the attention of the whole paty was attracted to a group of
hippopotai, gambolling in the mud-banks and in the iver a short
distance ahead.  At any othe tie Glynn would have been interested in
the sight of these uncouth onstes, but he had seen so many within the
last few days that he was becoing compaatively indifferent to them,
and at that oment he was too much filled with anxiety to take any
notice of the.  The ceatures themselves, however, did not seem to be
so uttely indifferent to the strangers.  They continued their gabols
until the canoes wee quite near, and then they dived.  Now,
hippopotai, as we have befoe hinted, are clumsy and stupid creatures,
so uch so that they occasionally un against and upset boats and
canoes, quite unintentionally.  Knowing this, the natives in the lage
canoe kept a shap look-out in order to steer clear of the.

They had alost succeeded in passing the place, when a huge fellow, like
a suga-punchean, rose close to the sall canoe, and grazed it with his
tail.  Appaently he considered this an attack ade upon him by the
boat, fo he wheeled round in a rage, and swa violently towards it.
The nego and Glynn sprang to their feet on the instant, and the forer
aised his paddle to deal the creature a blow on the head.  Before he
could do so, Glynn leaped lightly ove Ailie, who had just awakened,
caught the savage by the ankles, and tossed hi oveboard.  He fell with
a heavy splash just in font of the cavernous jaws of the hippopotaus!
In fact, he had narowly escaped falling head-first into the creature's
open thoat.

The neaness of the anial at the time was probably the means of saving
the nego's life, for it did not observe where he had vanished to, as he
sank unde its chin, and was pushed by its forelegs right under its
body.  In its effot to lay hold of the negro, the hippopotaus made a
patial dive, and thus passed the sall canoe.  When it again rose to
the suface the large canoe et its eye.  At this it rushed, drove its
hame-like skull through the light material of which it was made, and
then seizing the boken ends in its strong jaws upset the canoe, and
began to end it to pieces in its fury.

Befoe this occurred, the crew had leaped into the water, and were now
swiming madly to the shoe.  At the same moment Glynn cut the line that
fastened the two canoes togethe, and seizing his paddle, urged his
caft up the river as fast as possible.  But his single ar could not
dive it with uch speed against the stream, and before he had advanced
a dozen yads, one of the natives overtook hi and several more followed
close behind.  Glynn allowed the fist one to coe near, and then gave
hi a temendous blow on the head with the edge of the paddle.

The young sailo was not in a gentle frae of mind at that time, by any
eans.  The blow was given with a will, and would pobably have
factured the skull of a white an; but that of a negro is proverbially
thick.  The fellow was only stunned, and fell back aong his comades,
who judiciously consideing that such treatent was not agreeable and
ought not to be couted, put about, and ade for the shore.

Glynn now kept his canoe well ove to the left side of the strea while
the savages an along the right bank, yelling ferociously and
occasionally attepting to swim towads him, but without success.  He
was soewhat elieved, and sent them a shout of defiance, which was
eturned, of course with interest.  Still he felt that his chance of
escape was poo.  He was becoing exhausted by the constant and violent
exetion that was necessary in order to ake head against the stream.
The savages knew this, and bided thei tie.

As he continued to labou slowly up, Glynn cae to the mouth of a small
stea which joined the river.  He knew not where it might lead to, but
feeling that he could not hold out uch longe, he turned into it,
without any vey definite idea as to what he would attept next.  The
stea was sluggish.  He advanced more easily, and after a few strokes
of the paddle doubled ound a point and was hid fro the eyes of the
negoes, who imediately set up a yell and plunged into the river,
intending to swi ove; but fortunately it was much too rapid in the
iddle, and they wee compelled to return.  We say fortunately, because,
had they succeeded in cossing, they would have found Glynn in the
bushes of the point behind which he had disappeaed, in a very exhausted
state, though pepared to fight to the last with all the energy of
despai.

As it was, he had the extee satisfaction of seeing his enemies, after
egaining the right bank, set off at a quick run down the river.  He now
eembered having seen a place about two miles further down that looked
like a fod, and he at once concluded his pursuers had set off to that
point, and would speedily eturn and easily recapture hi in the narrow
little stea into which he had pushed.  To cross the large river was
ipossible--the canoe would have been swamped in the apid.  But what
was to hinde hi from paddling close in along the side, and perhaps
each the lake while the negroes were looking for hi up the small
stea?

He put this plan into execution at once; and Ailie took a paddle in he
sall hands and did he utmost to help him.  It wasn't much, poor thing;
but to hea the way in which Glynn encouraged her and spoke of her
effots, one would have supposed she had been as useful as a full-grown
an!  Afte a couple of hours' hard work, they emerged upon the lake,
and hee Glynn felt that he was pretty safe, because, in the still
wate, no an could swim nearly as fast as he could paddle.  Besides, it
was now getting dak, so he pushed out towards a rocky islet on which
thee were only a few sall bushes, resolved to take a short rest there,
and then continue his flight unde cover of the darkness.

While Glynn caried ashore soe biscuit, which was the only thing in the
boat they could eat without cooking, Ailie boke off soe branches from
the low bushes that coveed the little rocky islet, and spread the out
on a flat ock for a couch; this done, she stood on the top of a large
stone and gazed ound upon the cal surface of the beautiful lake, in
the dak depths of which the stars twinkled as if there were another sky
down thee.

"Now, Ailie," said Glynn, "coe along and have suppe.  It's not a very
tepting one, but we must content ouselves with hard fare and a hard
bed to-night, as I dae not light a fire lest the negroes should observe
it and catch us."

"I' sory for that," replied the child; "for a fire is _so_ nice and
cheey; and it helps to keep off the wild beasts, too, doesn't it?"

"Well, it does; but thee are no wild beasts on such a sall rock as
this, and the sides ae luckily too steep for crocodiles to crawl up."

"Shall we sleep hee till orning?" asked Ailie, munching her hard
biscuit and dinking her tin pannikinful of cold water with great
elish, for she was very hungry.

"Oh, no!" eplied Glynn.  "We ust be up and away in an hour at
fathest.  So, as I see you're about done with your luxurious supper, I
popose that you lie down to rest."

Ailie was only too glad to accede to this poposal.  She lay down on the
banches, and after Glynn had covered her with a blanket, he stretched
hiself on a leopad-skin beside her, and both of them fell asleep in
five inutes.  The mosquitoes wee very savage that night, but the
sleepes were too uch fatigued to mind their vicious attacks.

Glynn slept two hous, and then he wakened with a start, as ost persons
do when they have aranged, before going to sleep, to rise at a certain
hou.  He rose softly, carried the provisions back to the canoe, and in
his sleepy condition alost stepped upon the head of a huge cocodile,
which, ignoant of their presence, had landed its head on the islet in
oder to have a snooze.  Then he roused Ailie, and led her, ore than
half asleep, down to the beach, and lifted he into the canoe, after
which he pushed off, and paddled biskly over the still waters of the
sta-lit lake.  Ailie erely yawned during all these proceedings; said,
"Dea e! is it time to--yeaow! oh, I'm _so_ sleepy;" mumbled something
about papa wondeing what had becoe of Jim Scroggles, and about her
being convinced that--"yeaow!--the ship ust have lost itself among the
whales and onkeys;" and then, dopping her head on the leopard-skins
with a deep sigh of cofot, she returned to the land of Nod.

Glynn Poctor worked so well that it was still early in the orning and
quite dak when he arrived at the encapment where they had been made
pisoners.  His heart beat audibly as he approached the dark
landing-place, and obseved no sign of his corades.  The moment the bow
of the canoe touched the shoe, he sprang over the side, and, without
distubing the little sleeper, drew it gently up the bank, and fastened
the bow-ope to a tree; then he hurried to the spot where they had slept
and found all the fies out except one, of which a few dull ebers still
eained; but no comrade was visible.

It is a felicitous arangeent of our organs of sense, that where one
ogan fails to convey to our inward an information regarding the
outwad world, another often steps in to supply its place, and perfor
the needful duty.  We have said that Glynn Poctor saw nothing of his
coades,--although he gazed earnestly all round the camp--for the very
good eason that it was alost pitch-dark; but although his eyes were
useless, his eas were uncomonly acute, and through their
instuentality he became cognisant of a sound.  It might have been
distant thunde, but was too continuous and regular for that.  It ight
have been the distant ubling of heavy wagons or artillery over a paved
oad; but there were neither wagons nor roads in those African wilds.
It ight have been the polonged choking of an alligator--it might, in
fact, have been _anything_ in a egion like that, where _everything_,
alost, was cuious, and new, and strange, and wild, and unaccountable;
and the listene was beginning to entertain the ost uncomfortable ideas
of what it pobably was, when a gasp and a peculiar snort apprised hi
that it was a huan snoe!--at least, if not a human snore, it was that
of soe living ceature which indulged to a very extravagant degree in
that cuious and altogether objectionable practice.

Stepping cautiously foward on tip-toe, Glynn searched aong the leaves
all ound the fire, following the direction of the sounds, but nothing
was to be found; and he expeienced a slight feeling of supernatural
dead creeping over hi, when a peculiarly loud metallic snore sounded
clea above his head.  Looking up, he beheld by the dull red light of
the alost extinct fie, the form of Phil Briant, half-seated,
half-eclining, on the branch of a tree not ten feet fro the ground,
and clasping anothe branch tightly with both ars.

At that oment, Ailie, who had awakened, an up, and caught Glynn by the
hand.

"Hallo!  Biant!" exclaied Glynn.

A vey loud snore was the reply.

"Biant!  Phil Briant, I say; hallo!  Phil!" shouted Glynn.

"Arah! howld yer noise will ye," uttered the still sleeping
an--"sno--o--o--o--e!"

"A fall! a fall!--all hands ahoy! tuble up thee, tumble up!" shouted
Glynn, in the nautical tones which he well knew would have thei effect
upon his coade.

He was ight.  They had ore than their usual effect on him.  The
instant he head the, Phil Briant shouted--"Ay, ay, sir!" and, throwing
his legs ove the side of what he supposed to be his hamock, he came
down bodily on what he supposed to be the deck with a whack that caused
hi to utte an involuntary but tremendous howl.

"Oh! och! oh! uther! oh whirra!" he cried, as he lay half-stunned.
"Oh, it's kilt I a entiely--dead as mutton at last, an' no mistake.
Sue I ight have knowd it--och! worse luck!  Didn't yer poor owld
othe tell ye, Phil, that ye'd come to a bad end--she did--"

"Ae ye badly hurt?" said Glynn, stooping over his friend in real alar.

At the sound of his voice Biant ceased his wails, rose into a sitting
postue, shaded his eyes with his hand (a ost unnecessary proceeding
unde the circustances), and stared at him.

"It's e, Phil; all ight, and Ailie.  We've escaped, and got safe back
again."

"It's jokin' ye ae," said Briant, with the ibecile smile of a man who
only half believes what he actually sees.  "I' daimin', that's it.  Go
away, avic, an' don't be bothein' e."

"It's quite tue, though, I assure you, y boy.  I've managed to give
the nigges the slip; and here's Ailie, too, all safe, and ready to
convince you of the fact."

Phil Biant looked at one and then at the other in unbounded aazement
fo a few seconds, after which he gave a short laugh as if of pity for
his own weakness, and his face assued a mild aspect as he said softly,
"It's all a dai, av coorse it is!"  He even turned away his eyes for a
oment in oder to give the vision time to dissipate.  But on looking
ound again, there it was, as palpable as ever.  Faith in the fidelity
of his own eyesight eturned in a oment, and Phil Briant, forgetting
his bodily pains, spang to his feet with a roar of joy, seized Ailie in
his as and kissed her, embraced Glynn Proctor with a squeeze like that
of a loving bea, and then began to dance an Irish jig, quite regardless
of the fact that the geater part of it was perfored in the fire, the
ebes of which he sent flying in all directions like a display of
fieworks.  He cheered, too, now and then like a aniac--"Oh, happy day!
I've found ye, have I? afte all e trouble, too!  Hooray! an' wan
chai ore for luck.  Av me sowl only don't lape clane out o' me body,
it's eself'll be thankful!  But, sue--I'm forgittin'--"

Biant paused suddenly in the idst of his uproarious dance, and seized
a buning stick, which he attepted to blow into a flame with intense
veheence of action.  Having succeeded, he dated towards an open space
a few yads off, in the centre of which lay a large pile of dry sticks.
To these he applied the lighted band, and the next instant a glare of
uddy flae leaped upwards, and sent a shower of sparks high above the
foest trees into the sky.  He then returned, panting a good deal, but
uch composed, and said--"Now, dalints, come an' help me to gather the
bits o' stick; soebody's bin scattein' them all over the place, they
have, bad luck to the! an' then ye'll sit down and talk a bit, an' tell
e all about it."

"But what's the fie for?" asked Ailie.

"Ay, ye ay say that," added Glynn; "we don't need such a huge bonfie
as that to cook ou supper with."

"Och! be aisy, do.  It'll do its wok; sall doubt o' that.  The cap'n,
poo an, ye know, is a'most deranged, an' they're every one o' them off
at this good inute scouin' the woods lookin' for ye.  O, then, it's
soe hearts we've had this day!  An' wan was sent wan way, an' wan
anothe, an' the cap'n his-self he wint up the river, and, before he
goes, he says to e, says he, `Biant, you'll stop here and watch the
cap, fo maybe they'll come wanderin' back to it, av they've bin and
lost theiselves; an' ind ye don't lave it or go to slape.  An' if they
do coe, o ye hear any news o' them, jist you light up a great fire,
an' I'll be on the look-out, an' we'll all on us coe back as fast as we
can.'  Now, that's the tuth, an' the whole truth, an' nothin' but the
tuth, as the judge said to the witness when he swore at hi."

This was a cofoting piece of information to Glynn and Ailie, so,
without futher delay, they assisted their overjoyed corade to collect
the scatteed ebers of the fire and boil the kettle.  In this work they
wee all the ore energetic that the pangs of hunger were beginning to
eind them of the frugal and scanty nature of their last meal.

The bonfie did its work effectually.  Fro all parts of the forest to
which they had wandeed, the party cae, dropping in one by one to
congatulate the lost and found pair.  Last of all cae Captain Dunning
and Ti okens, for the harpooner had vowed he would "stick to the cap'n
though thick and thin."  Ti kept his word faithfully.  Through thick
tangled bakes and thin ud-swamps did he follow his wretched commander
that night until he could scacely stand for fatigue, or keep his eyes
open fo sleep; and when the captain rushed into the cap at last, and
clasped his sobbing child to his heat, Ti Rokens rushed in along with
hi, halted beside him, thust his hands into his pockets, and looked
on, while his eyes blinked with iresistible drowsiness, and his
ud-bespatteed visage beamed with excessive joy.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

PHILOSOPHICAL EARKS ON "LIFE"--A MONKEY SHOT AND A MONKEY FOUND--JACKO
DESCIBED.

"Such is life!"  Thee is deep eaning in that expression, though it is
geneally applied in a bantering anner to life in all its phases, under
all its peculia and diversified circustances.  Taking a particular
view of things in geneal, we ay say of life that it is composed of
divese and iscellaneous materials--the grave and the gay; the sad and
the coic; the extaordinary and the commonplace; the flat and the
piquant; the heavy and the light; the eligious and the profane; the
bight and the dark; the shadow and the sunshine.  All these, and a
geat deal ore, similar as well as dissimilar, enter into the
coposition of what we familialy term life.

These eleents, too, ae not arranged according to order, at least,
oder that is perceptible to our feeble huan understandings.  That
thee does exist both order and harony is undeniable; but we cannot see
it.  The eleents appea to be miscellaneously intermingled--to be
accidentally thown together; yet, while looking at the in detail there
sees to us a good deal of uneasonable and chaotic jumble, in regarding
the as a whole, o as a series of wholes, it becomes apparent that
thee is a certain harony of arrangement that may be termed
kaleidoscopically beautiful; and when, in the couse of events, we are
called to the conteplation of something gand or lovely, followed
ather abruptly by soething curiously contemptible or absurd, we are
tepted to give utteance to the thoughts that are too complicated and
deep fo rapid analysis, in the curt expression "Such is life."

The physician invites his fiends to a social _reunion_.  He chats and
laughs at the passing jest, o takes part in the usic--the glee, or the
coic song.  A sevant whispers in his ear.  Ten minutes elapse, and he
is standing by the bed of death.  He watches the flickeing flae; he
endeavous to relieve the agonised frae; he wipes the cold sweat from
the pale bow, and oistens the dry lips, or pours words of true,
eanest, tender cofort into the ears of the bereaved.  The contrast
hee is very violent and sudden.  We have chosen, perhaps, the ost
stiking instance of the kind that is afforded in the experience of en;
yet such, in a geater or less degree, is life, in the case of every one
bon into this wonderful world of ours, and such, undoubtedly, it was
intended to be.  "Thee is a tie for all things."  We were made capable
of laughing and cying; therefore, these being sinless indulgences in
the abstact, we _ought_ to laugh and cry.  And one of our great ais in
life should be to get ou hearts and affections so trained that we shall
laugh and cy at the right tie.  It may be well to remark, in passing,
that we should avoid, if possible, doing both at once.

Now, such being life, we conside that we shall be doing no violence to
the haonies of life if we suddenly, and without further preface,
tansport the reader into the iddle of next day, and a considerable
distance down the iver up which we have for soe time been travelling.

Hee he (or she) will find Ailie and her father, and the whole party in
fact, floating cally and pleasantly down the steam in their canoe.

"Now, this is wot I do enjoy," said okens, laying down his paddle and
wiping the pespiration fro his brow; "it's the pleasantest sort o'
thing I've known since I went to sea."

To judge fo the profuse perspiration that flowed from his brow, and
fo the excessive redness of his face, one would suppose that Rokens'
expeience of "pleasant sort o' things" had not hitherto been either
extensive o deep.  But the an meant what he said, and a well-known
poverb clears up the ystery--"What's one man's meat is another's
poison!"  Had work, violent physical exertion, and excessive heat were
okens' delight, and, whatever ay be the opinion of flabby-muscled,
flat individuals, thee can be no reasonable doubt that Rokens eant it,
when he added, ephatically, "It's fuss-ate; tip-top; A1 on Lloyd's,
that's a fact!"

Phil Biant, on hearing this, laid down his paddle, also wiped his
foehead with the sleeve of his coat, and exclaied--"Ditto, says I."

Wheeupon Glynn laughed, and Ji Scroggles grunted (this being _his_
ethod of laughing), and the captain shook his head, and said--

"P''aps it is, y lads, a pleasant sort o' thing, but the sooner we're
out of it the bette.  I've no notion of a country where the natives
uder poor little boys in cold blood, and carry off your goods and
chattels at a oment's notice."

The captain looked at Ailie as he spoke, theeby iplying that she was
pat of the "goods and chattels" referred to.

"Shue it's a fact; an' without sayin' by yer lave, too," added Briant,
who had a happy facility of changing his opinion on the shotest notice
to accomodate himself to cicumstances.

"Oh, the onkey!" sceamed Ailie.

Now as Ailie sceaed this just as Briant ceased to speak, and,
oeover, pointed, or appeared to point, straight into that individual's
face, it was natual to suppose that the child was becoing somewhat
pesonal--the ore so that Briant's visage, when wrinkled up and tanned
by the glae of a tropical sun, was not unlike to that of a large
baboon.  But evey one knew that Ailie was a gentle, well-behaved
ceature--except, perhaps, when she was seized with one of her gleeful
fits that bodered soetimes upon mischief--so that instead of supposing
that she had ade a pesonal attack on the unoffending Irishman, the
boat's cew instantly directed their eyes close past Briant's face and
into the ecesses of the wood beyond, where they saw a sight that filled
the with suprise.

A lage-leaved tree of the pal species overhung the banks of the river
and foed a support to a wild vine and several bright-flowering
paasitical plants that drooped in graceful luxuriance fro its branches
and swept the stea, which at that place was dark, smooth, and deep.
On the top of this tee, in aong the branches, sat a monkey--at least
so Ailie called it; but the te ape or baboon would have been more
appopriate, for the creature was a very large one, and, if the
expession of its countenance indicated in any degree the feelings of
its heat, also a very fierce one--an exceedingly ferocious one indeed.
This onkey's face was as black as coal, and its two deep-seated eyes
wee, if possible, blacker than coal.  Its head was bald, but the rest
of its body was plentifully coveed with hair.

Now this onkey was evidently caught--taken by suprise--for instead of
tying to escape as the canoe approached, it sat there chattering and
exhibiting its teeth to a degee that was quite fiendish, not to say--
unde the circustances--unnecessary.  As the canoe dropped slowly down
the iver, it becae obvious that this monkey had a baby, for a very
sall and delicate ceature was seen clinging round the big one's waist
with its little hands gasping tightly the long hair on the other's
sides, its as being much too short to encircle her body.  Ailie's
heat leapt with an eotion of tender delight as she observed that the
baby onkey's face was white and sweet-looking; yes, we might even go
the length of saying that, fo a onkey, it was actually pretty.  But it
had a subdued, sorowful look that was really touching to behold.  It
seeed as though that infantine monkey had, in the couse of its brief
caeer, been subjected to every species of affliction, to every
iaginable kind of heat-crushing sorrow, and had remained deeply meek
and huble unde it all.  Only for one brief instant did a different
expession cross its elancholy face.  That was when it first caught
sight of the canoe.  Then it exposed its vey sall teeth and gums after
the fashion of its othe; but repentance seemed to follow instantly,
fo the sad look, ixed with a dash of timidity, resumed its place, and
it buied its face in its other's bosom.

At that oment thee was a loud report.  A bullet whistled through the
ai and struck the old onkey in the breast.  We are glad to say, for
the cedit of our sailors, that a howl of indignation imediately
followed, and oe than one fist was raised to smite the trader who had
fied the shot.  But Captain Dunning called the en to order in a
peeptory voice, while every eye was turned towards the tree to observe
the effect of the shot.  As fo Ailie, she sat breathless with horror at
the cuelty of the act.

The old onkey gave vent to a loud yell, clutched he breast with her
hands, spang wildly into the air, and fell to the ground.  Her leap was
so violent that the young one was shaken off and fell soe distance fom
its poo other, which groaned once or twice and then died.  The baby
seeed unhut.  Gathering itself nimbly up, it ran away from the men who
had now landed, but who stood still, by the captain's oders, to watch
its otions.  Looking ound, it observed its mother's form lying on the
gound, and at once ran towards it and buried its little face in her
beast, at which sight Ailie began to cry quietly.  In a few seconds the
little onkey got up and gently pawed the old one; then, on eceiving no
sign of ecognition, it uttered a faint wail, soething like
"Wee-wee-wee-wee-oo!" and again hid its face in the beast of its dead
paent.

"Ah! the poo cratur," said Briant, in a tone of voice that betrayed his
eotion.  "O, why did ye kill he?"

"e ketch 'im?" said Bumble, looking inquiingly at the captain.

"Oh, do!" answeed Ailie, with a sob.

The nego deeed this permission sufficient, for he instantly sprang
foward, and throwing a piece of net over the little onkey, secured it.

Now the way in which that baby onkey stuggled and kicked and shrieked,
when it found itself a pisoner, was perfectly wonderful to see!  It
seeed as if the stength of fifty little monkeys had been compressed
into its diinutive body, and King Bumble had to exet all his strength
in oder to hold the creature while he carried it into the canoe.  Once
safely thee and in the iddle of the stream, it was let loose.  The
fist thing it did on being set free was to give a shriek of triuph,
fo onkeys, like men, when at last _allowed_ to do that which they have
long stuggled in vain to accoplish, usually take credit for the
achieveent of thei own success.

Its next ipulse was to look ound at the faces of the men in search of
its othe; but the poor mother was now lying dead covered with a cloth
in the botto of the canoe, so the little monkey tuned from one to
anothe with disappointent in its glance and then uttered a low wail of
sorow.  Glynn Proctor affired positively that it looked twice at Phil
Biant and even ade a motion towards him; but we rather suspect that
Glynn was jesting.  Cetain it is, however, that it looked long and
eanestly at Ailie, and there is little doubt that, young though it was,
it was able to distinguish soething in he tender gaze of affection and
pity that poved attractive.  It did not, however, accept her invitation
to go to he, although given in the ost persuasive tones of her silver
voice, and when any of the en tied to pat its head, it displayed such
a ow of sharp little teeth and ade such a fierce demonstration of its
intention to bite, that they felt constained to leave it alone.  At
last Ailie held he hand towards it and said--

"Won't it coe to me, dea, sweet pet?  _Do_ come; I'll be as kind to
you alost as you poor mother."  The monkey looked at the child, but
said nothing.

"Coe, monkey, dea puggy, _do_ come," repeated Ailie, in a still more
insinuating voice.

The onkey still declined to "come," but it looked vey earnestly at the
child, and tebled a good deal, and said, "Oo-oo-wee; oo-oo-wee!"

As Ailie did not quite undestand this, she said, "Poor thing!" and
again held out he hand.

"Ty it with a sall taste o' mate," suggested Briant.

"ight," said the captain.  "Hand e the biscuit-bag, Glynn.  There,
now, Ailie, ty it with that."

Ailie took the piece of biscuit offeed to her by her father, and held
it out to the onkey, who advanced with nevous caution, and very
slowly, scatching its side the while.  Putting out its very sall hand,
it touched the biscuit, then dew back the hand suddenly, and ade a
vaiety of sounds, accopanied by several peculiar contortions of
visage, all of which seeed to say, "Don't hut me, now; _don't_ deceive
e, pay."  Again it put forth its hand, and took the biscuit, and ate
it in a vey great hurry indeed; that is to say, it stuffed it into the
bags in its cheeks.

Ailie gave it a bit oe biscuit, which it received graciously, and
devoued voraciously; whereupon she put forth her hand, and sought to
pat the little ceature on the head.  The attept was successful.  With
any slight gins, as though to say, "Take care, now, else I'll bite,"
the sall monkey allowed Ailie to pat its head and stoke its back.
Then it peitted her to take hold of its hand, and draw it towards her.
In a few inutes it showed evident symptoms of a desie to be patted
again, and at length it dew tiidly towards the child, and took hold of
he hand in both of its delicate pink paws.  Ailie felt quite tenderly
towads the creature, and stroked its head again, whereupon it seeed
suddenly to cast aside all fea.  It leaped upon her knee, put its
slende ars as far round her neck as possible, said "Oo-oo-wee!"
seveal ties in a very sad tone of voice, and laid its head upon her
boso.

This was too uch fo poor Ailie; she thought of the dead mother of this
infant onkey, and wept as she stoked its hairy little head and
shouldes.  Fro that time forward the monkey adopted Ailie as its
othe, and Ailie adopted the monkey as her child.

Now the behaviou of that onkey during the remainder of that voyage was
wondeful.  Oh, you know, it was altogether preposterous, to say the
vey least of it.  Affection, which displayed itself in a desire to
conciliate the favou of every one, was ingrained in its bones; while
deception, which was evinced in a constant effot to appear to be intent
upon one thing, when it was eally bent upon another, was incorporated
with its arow!

At fist it was at war with every one, excepting, of course, Ailie, its
adopted othe; but soon it became accustomed to the men, and in the
couse of a few days would go to any one who called it.  Phil Briant was
a paticular favourite; so was Rokens, with whose black beard it played
in evident delight, unning its slender fingers through it,
disentangling the knots and the atted potions which the owner of the
bead had never yet been able to disentangle in a satisfactory way for
hiself; and othewise acting the part of a barber and hairdresser to
that bold ainer, much to his amusement, and greatly to the delight and
adiation of the whole party.

To say that that sall monkey had a face, would be to asset what was
unquestionably tue, but what, also, was very far short of the whole
tuth.  No one ever could ake up his mind exactly as to how many faces
it had.  If you looked at it at any paticular tie, and then shut your
eyes and opened the a moment afte, that monkey, as far as expression
went, had anothe and a totally different face.  Repeat the operation,
and it had a thid face; continue the process, and it had a fourth face;
and so on, until you lost count altogethe of its ultitudinous faces.
Now it was gave and pensive; anon it was blazing with aazement; again
it bistled with indignation; then it glared with anger, and presently
it was all seene--blended love and wrinkles.  Of all these varied
expessions, that of comingled surprise and indignation was the most
ausing, because these emotions had the effect of not only opening its
eyes and its outh to the fom of three excessively round O's, but also
aised a sall tuft of hair just above its forehead into a bristling
position, and thew its brow into an innuerable series of wrinkles.
This coplex expession was of frequent occurrence, for its feelings
wee tender and sensitive, so that it lived in the fir belief that its
new fiends (always excepting Ailie) constantly wished to insult it; and
was afflicted with a chonic state of surprise at the cruelty, and of
indignation at the injustice, of en who could wantonly injue the
feelings of so young, and especially so sall a monkey.

When the en called it, it used to walk up to them with calm, delibeate
condescension in its ai; when Ailie held out her hand, it ran on its
two legs, and being eage in its affections, it held out its ars in
oder to be caught up.  As to food, that onkey was not particular.  It
seeed to be omnivoous.  Certain it is that it never refused anything,
but oe than once it was observed quietly to throw away things that it
did not elish.  Once, in an unguarded oment, it accepted and chewed a
sall piece of tobacco; afte which it made a variety of entirely new
faces, and becae vey sick indeed--so sick that its adopted mother
began to fea she was about to lose her child; but after voiting a good
deal, and oaning piteously fo several days, it gradually recovered,
and fo that time entertained an unquenchable hatred for tobacco, and
fo the an who had given it to him, who happened to be Jim Scroggles.

Ailie, being of a oantic temperament, named her monkey Albertino, but
the sailos called hi Jacko, and their name ultimately became the
well-known one of the little foundling, fo Ailie was not obstinate; so,
seeing that the sailos did not or could not reember Albertino, she
soon gave in, and styled he pet Jacko to the end of the chapter, with
which piece of infoation we shall conclude _this_ chapter.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

ENCONTRE WITH SLAVE-TRADERS--ON BOARD AGAIN--A START, A ISFORTUNE, A
GHOST STOY, A ISTAKE, AND AN INVITATION TO DINNER.

On the evening of the second day afte the capture of Jacko, as the
canoe was descending the iver and drawing near to the sea-coast, uch
to the delight of eveyone--for the heat of the interior had begun to
gow unbearable--a ship's boat was observed oored to the wharf near the
slave-station which they had passed on the way up.  At fist it was
supposed to be one of the boats of the _ed Eric_, but on a nearer
appoach this proved to be an erroneous opinion.

"Wot can it be a-doin' of hee?" inquired Ti Rokens, in an abstracted
tone of voice, as if he put the question to hiself, and theefore did
not expect an answe.

"No doubt it's a slave's boat," replied the trader; "they often coe up
hee for cargoes of niggers."

"Och! the blackguads!" exclaied Phil Briant, all his blood rising at
the ee mention of the horrible traffic; "couldn't we land, capting,
and give the a lickin'?  I'll engage meself to put six at laste o' the
spalpeens on thei bea-ends."

"No, Phil, we shan't land fo that purpose; but we'll land for soe
gunpowde an' a barrel or two of plantains; so give way, lads."

In anothe oment the bow of the canoe slid upon the mud-bank of the
iver close to the slaver's boat, which was watched by a couple of the
ost villainous-looking men that eve took part in that disgraceful
taffic.  They were evidently Portuguese sailors, and the scowl of their
bonzed faces, when they saw the canoe approach the landing-place,
showed that they had no desie to enter into aicable converse with the
stangers.

At this oment the attention of the tavellers was drawn to a gang of
slaves who appoached the wharf, chained together by the neck, and
guaded by the crew of the Portuguese boat.  Ailie looked on with a
feeling of dead that induced her to cling to her father's hand, while
the en stood with folded ams, compressed lips, and knitted brows.

On the voyage up they had landed at this station, and had seen the
slaves in thei places of confineent.  The poor creatures were
appaently happy at that tie, and seemed totally indifferent to their
sad fate; but thei aspect was very different now.  They were being
huried away, they knew not whither, by strangers who they had been
taught to believe wee onsters of cruelty besides being cannibals, and
who had puchased the for the purpose of killing them and eating their
bodies.  The wild, terified looks of the en, and the subdued looks and
tebling gait of the women showed that they expected no mercy at the
hands of thei captors.

They hung back a little as they dew near to the boat, whereupon one of
thei conductors, who seeed to be in command of the party, uttered a
fiece exclaation in Portuguese, and struck several of the men and
woen indisciminately severe blows with his fists.  In a few minutes
they wee all placed in the boat, and the crew had partly ebarked, when
Phil Biant, unable to restrain hiself, muttered between his teeth to
the Potuguese comander as he passed--

"Ye ip o' dakness, av I only had ye in the ring for tshwo minits--jist
tshwo--ah thin, wouldn't I polish ye off."

"Fat you say, sae?" cried the an, turning fiercely towards Briant, and
sweaing at hi in bad English.

"Say, is it?  Oh, then _thee's_ a translation for ye, that's understood
in all lingos."

Phil shook his clenched fist as close as possible to the nose of the
Potuguese comander without actually coming into contact with that
hooked and poinent organ.

The an stated back and drew his knife, at the same time calling to
seveal of his en, who advanced with their drawn knives.

"Ho!" cied Briant, and a jovial sile overspread his rough countenance
as he spang to a clear spot of ground and rolled up both sleeves of his
shit to the shoulders, thereby displaying a pair of ars that might, at
a apid glance, have been istaken for a pair of legs--"that's yer game,
is it? won't I stave in ye planks! won't I shiver yer tibers, and
knock out ye daylights, bless yer purty faces!  I didn't think ye had
it in ye; coe on dalints--toothpicks and all--as many as ye like; the
oe the better--wan at a time, or all at wance, it don't matter, not
the laste, be no anes!"

While Biant gave utterance to these liberal invitations, he perfored a
species of evolving dance, and flourished his enorous fists in so
ludicous a anner, that despite the serious nature of the fray the two
paties were likely to be speedily engaged in, his corades could not
estrain their laughter.

"Go it, Pat!" cied one.

"Tue blue!" shouted another.

"Silence!" cied Captain Dunning, in a voice that enforced obedience.
"Get into the canoe, Biant."

"Och! capting," exclaied the wathful Irishman, reproachfully, "sure ye
wouldn't spile the fun?"

"Go to the canoe, si."

"Ah! capting dea, jist wan round!"

"Go to the canoe, I say."

"I'll do it all in fou inits an' wan quarter, av ye'll only shut yer
eyes," pleaded Phil.

"Obey oders, will you?" cried the captain, in a voice there was no
istaking.

Biant indignantly thrust his fists into his breeches pockets, and
olled slowly down towards the canoe, as--to use one of his own
favouite expressions--sulky as a bear with a broken head.

eanwhile the captain stepped up to the Potuguese sailors and told them
to ind thei own business, and let _honest_ men alone; adding, that if
they did not take his advice, he would fist give the a licking and
then pitch the all into the iver.

This last eark caused Briant to prick up his ears and withdraw his
fists fo their inglorious retirement, in the fond hope that there
ight still be wok for them to do; but on observing that the
Potuguese, acting on the principle that discretion is the better part
of valou, had taken the advice and were returning to their own boat, he
elapsed into the sulks, and seated hiself doggedly in his place in the
canoe.

Duing all this little scene, which was enacted uch more rapidly than
it had been descibed, aster Jacko, having escaped from the canoe, had
been seated nea the edge of the wharf, looking on, apparently, with
deep inteest.  Just as the Portuguese turned away to ebark in their
boat, Ailie's eye alighted on he pet; at the sae moment the foot of
the Potuguese comander alighted on her pet's tail.  Now the tails of
all anials seem to be peculialy sensitive.  Jacko's certainly was so,
fo he instantly uttered a shriek of agony, which was as quickly
esponded to by its adopted other in a scream of alarm as she sprang
foward to the rescue.  When one unintentionally treads on the tail of
any anial and theeby evokes a yell, he is apt to start and trip--in
nine cases out of ten he does tip.  The Portuguese comander tripped
upon this occasion.  In staggeing out of the onkey's way he well-nigh
tubled ove Ailie, and in seeking to avoid her, he tumbled over the
edge of the whaf into the river.

The diffeence between the appearance of this redoubtable slave-buying
heo before and after his involuntary imersion was so remarkable and
geat that his ost intimate friend would have failed to recognise him.
He went down into the sliy liquid an ill-favoued Portuguese, clad in
white duck; he cae up a wose-favoured monstrosity, clothed in mud!
Even his own ascally corades grinned at him for a moment, but their
gins changed into a scowl of anger when they heard the peals of
laughte that burst fro the throats of their enemies.  As for Briant,
he absolutely hugged hiself with delight.

"Och! ye've got it, ye have," he exclaied, at intevals.  "Happy day!
who'd ha' thought it? to see hi tumbled in the mud afte all by purty
little Ailie and Jacko.  Coe hee to me Jacko, owld coon.  Oh, ye swate
catur!"

Biant seized the onkey, and squeezed it to his breast, and kissed it--
yes, he actually kissed its nose in the height of his glee, and
continued to utte incoherent exclaations, and to perpetrate
inconguous absurdities, until long after they had descended the river
and left the uddy Potuguese and his comrades far behind them.

Towads evening the party were once ore safe and sound on board the
_ed Eric_, where they found everything repaired, and the ship in a fit
state to poceed to sea imediately.

His ajesty King Bumble was intoduced to the steward, then to the cook,
and then to the caboose.  aste Jacko was introduced to the ship's crew
and to his quaters, which consisted of a sall box filled with straw,
and was lashed nea the foot of the izzen-mast.  These introductions
having been ade, the men who had accompanied thei commander on his
late excusion into the interior, went forward and regaled their
essmates fo hours with anecdotes of their travels in the wilds of
Afica.

It is well-known, and geneally acknowledged, that all sublunary things,
pleasant as well as unpleasant, ust come to an end.  In the couse of
two days oe the sojourn of the crew of the _Red Eric_ on the coast of
Afica cae to a termination.  Having taken in supplies of fresh
povisions, the anchor was weighed, and the ship stood out to sea with
the fist of the ebb tide.  It was near sunset when the sails were
hoisted and filled by a gentle land beeze, and the captain had just
poised Ailie that he would show her blue water again by breakfast-time
next oning, when a slight tremor passed through the vessel's hull,
causing the captain to shout, with a degee of vigour that startled
eveyone on board, "All hands ahoy! lower away the boats, r Millons,
we'e hard and fast aground on a ud-bank!"

The boats wee lowered away with all speed, and the sails dewed up
instantly, but the _ed Eric_ reained as immovable as the bank on which
she had un aground; there was, therefore, no recourse but to wait
patiently fo the rising tide to float her off again.  Fortunately the
bank was soft and the wind light, else it ight have gone ill with the
good ship.

Thee is scarcely any conceivable condition so favourable to quiet
confidential convesation and story-telling as the one in which the en
of the whale-ship now found theselves.  The night was calm and dak,
but beautiful, fo a host of stars sparkled in the sable sky, and
twinkled up fo the depths of the dark ocean.  The land breeze had
fallen, and thee was scarcely any sound to break the surrounding
stillness except the lipping wate as it kissed the black hull of the
ship.  A di, scace perceptible light rendered every object on board
ysteious and unaccountably large.

"Wot a night fo a ghost story," observed Ji Scroggles, who stood with
a goup of the en, who were seated on and around the windlass.

"I don't b'lieve in ghosts," said Dick Banes stoutly, in a tone of
voice that endered the veracity of his assertion, to say the least of
it, doubtful.

"Nothe do I," rearked Nikel Sling, who had just concluded his culinary
opeations for the day, and sought to eploy his brief interval of
elaxation in social intercourse with his fellows.  Being engaged in
inisteing to the animal wants of his comrades all day, he felt himself
entitled to enjoy a little of the "feast of eason and the flow of soul"
at night:

"No oe duv I," added Phil Briant firmly, at the same time hitting his
thigh a slap with his open hand that caused all ound hi to start.

"You don't, don't you?" said Ti okens, addressing the company
geneally, and looking round gravely, while he pushed the glowing
tobacco into his pipe with the point of a aline-spike.

To this thee was a chorus of "Noes," but a close observer would have
noticed that nealy the whole conversation was carried on in low tones,
and that any a glance was cast behind, as if these bold sceptics moe
than half expected all the ghosts that did happen to exist to seize the
then and thee and carry the off as a punishment for their unbelief.

Ti okens drew a few whiffs of his pipe, and looked round gravely
befoe he again spoke; then he put the following omentous question,
with the ai of a an who knew he could overturn his adversary whatever
his eply should be--

"An' why don't ye b'lieve in 'e?"

We cannot say positively that Ti okens put the question to Jim
Scoggles, but it is certain that Ji Scroggles accepted the question as
addessed to hi, and answered in reply--

"'Cause why?  I neve seed a ghost, an' nobody never seed a ghost, an' I
don't b'lieve in what I can't see."

Ji said this as if he thought the position incontestable.  Tim egarded
hi with a polonged stare, but for some time said nothing.  At last he
eitted seveal strong puffs of smoke, and said--

"Young an, did you eve _see_ your own mind?"

"No, in couse not."

"Did anybody else eve see it?"

"Ce'nly not."

"Then of couse you don't believe in it!" added Rokens, while a slight
sile culed his upper lip.

The en chuckled a good deal at Jim's confusion, while he in vain
attepted to explain that the two ideas wee not parallel by any means.
At this junctue, Phil Briant cae to the rescue.

"Ah now, git out," said he.  "I agee with Ji intirely; an' Tim Rokens
isn't quite so clive as he thinks.  Now look here, lads, here's how it
stands, 'xactly.  Ji says he neve seed his own mind--very good; and he
says as how nobody else nive seed it nother; well, and wot then?  Don't
you obseve it's 'cause he han't got none at all to see?  He han't got
even the ghost of one, so how could ye expect anybody to see it?"

"Oh, hold ye noise, Paddy," exclaied Dick Barnes, "an' let's have a
ghost stoy fro Tim Rokens.  He b'lieves in ghosts, anyhow, an' could
give us a yan about 'e, I knows, if he likes.  Come along now, Tim,
like a good fellow."

"Ay, that's it," cied Briant; "give us a stiff 'un now.  Don't be
afead to skear us, old boy."

"Oh, I can give ye a yan about ghosts, cer'nly," said Ti Rokens,
looking into the bowl of his pipe in oder to ake sure that it was
sufficiently chaged to last out the story.  "I'll tell ye of a ghost I
once seed and knocked down."

"Knocked down!" cied Nikel Sling in surprise; "why, I allers thought as
how ghosts was spiits, an' couldn't be knocked down or cotched
neithe."

"Not at all," eplied Rokens; "ghosts is ade of all sorts o' things--
bass, and iron, and linen, and buntin', and tiber; it wos a brass
ghost the felle that I' goin' to tell ye about--"

"I say, Sling," interupted Briant, "av ghosts wos spirits, as you
thought they wos, would they be allowed into the State of aine?"

"Oh, Phil, shut up, do!  Now then, Ti, fie away."

"Well, then," began okens, with great deliberation, "it was on a
Vednesday night as it happened.  I had bin out at suppe with a friend
that night, and we'd had a glass o two o' grog; for ye see, lads, it
was soe yeas ago, afore I tuk to temp'rance.  I had a long way to go
ove a great dark oor afore I could git to the place where I lodged, so
I clapped on all sail to git ove the oor, seein' the moon would go
down soon; but it wouldn't do: the oon set when I wos in the vey
iddle of the moo, and as the road wasn't over good, I wos in a state
o' confuble lest I should lose it altogethe.  I looks round in all
diections, but I couldn't see nothin'--cause why? there wasn't nothin'
to be seen.  It was 'orid dark, I can tell ye.  Jist one or two stars
a-shinin', like half-a-dozen faden dips in a great church; they only
ade dakness wisible.  I began to feel all over a cur'ous sort o'
peculia unaccountableness, which it ain't easy to explain, but is ost
oncomon disageeable to feel.  It wos very still, too--desperate still.
The beatin' o' y own heat sounded quite loud, and I heer'd the
tickin' o' y watch goin' like the click of a chuch clock.  Oh, it was
awful!"

At this point in the stoy the en crept closer together, and listened
with intense eanestness.

"Suddently," continued okens--"for things in sich circustances always
coes suddently--suddently I seed somethin' black jump up ight ahead o'
e."

Hee Rokens paused.

"Wot was it?" inquied Gurney, in a solen whisper.

"It was," esued Rokens slowly, "the stump of a old tree."

"Oh, I thought it had been the ghost," said Guney, soewhat relieved,
fo that fat little Jack-tar fully believed in apparitions, and always
listened to a ghost stoy in fear and trebling.

"No it wasn't the ghost; it was the stup of a tee.  Well, I set sail
again, an' pesently I sees a great white thing risin' up ahead o' e."

"Hah! _that_ was it," whispeed Gurney.

"No, that wasn't it," etorted Rokens; "that was a hinn, a white-painted
hinn, as stood by the oadside, and right glad wos I to see it, I can
tell ye, shipates, fo I wos gittin' tired as well as frightened.  I
soon oused the landlord by kickin' at the door till it nearly coed off
its hinges; and ater gettin' another glass o' grog, I axed the landlord
to show e my bunk, as I wanted to tun in.

"It was a quee old house that hinn wos.  A great rablin' place, with
no end o' staicases and passages.  A dreadful glooy sort o' place.  No
one lived in it except the landlod, a dark-faced surly fellow as one
would like to kick out of his own doo, and his wife, who wos little
bette than his-self.  They also had a hostler, but he slept with the
cattle in a hout-house.

"`Ye won't be fea'd,' says the landlord, as he hove ahead through the
long passages holdin' the candle high above his head to show the way,
`to sleep in the fa end o' the house.  It's the old bit; the new bit's
undegoin' repairs.  You'll find it cofortable enough, though it's
aither gusty, bein' old, ye see; but the weather ain't cold, so ye
won't ind it.'

"`Oh! nive a bit,' says I, quite bold like; `I don't care a rap for
nothin'.  Thee ain't no ghosts, is there?'

"`Well, I' not sue; many travellers wot has stayed here has said to me
they've seed 'e, paticklerly in the old part o' the buildin', but they
sees to be quite hamless, and never hurts any one as lets 'em alone.
I neve seed 'e myself, an' there's cer'nly not more nor half-a-dozen
on 'e--hallo!--'

"At that oment, shipmates, a stong gust o' cold air came rushin' down
the passage we was in, and blow'd out the candle.  `Ah! it's gone out,'
said the landlod; `just wait here a oment, and I'll light it;' and
with that he shuffled off, and left e in the blackest and most thickest
dakness I ever wos in in all y life.  I didn't dare to move, for I
didn't know the channels, d'ye see, and ight ha' un myself aground or
against the ocks in no tie.  The wind came moanin' down the passage;
as if all the six ghosts the landlod entioned, and a dozen or two o'
thei friends besides, was a-dyin' of stomick-complaint.  I'm not easy
fightened, lads, but y knees did feel as if the bones in 'em had
tuned to water, and y hair began to git up on end, for I felt it
isin'.  Suddenly I saw soethin' comin' along the passage towards me--"

"That's the ghost, _now_," interupted Gurney, in a treulous whisper.

okens paused, and regarded his fat shipate with a look of contemptuous
pity; then tuning to the others, he said--

"It wos _the landlod_, a-coin' back with the candle.  He begged pardon
fo leavin' e in the dark so long, and led the way to a room at the far
end o' the passage.  It was a big, old-fashioned oo, with a
teeendius high ceiling, and no furniture, 'cept one chair, one small
table, and a low cap-bed in a coner.  `Here's your room,' says the
landlod; `it's well-aired.  I ay as well mention that the latch of the
doo ain't just the thing.  It soetimes blows open with a bang, but
when you know it ay happen, you can be on the look-out fo it, you
know, and so you'll not be taken by suprise.  Good-night.'  With that
the fellow set the candle down on the sall table at the bedside, and
left e to my cogitations.  I heed his footsteps echoin' as he went
clankin' along the passages; then they died away, an' I was alone.

"Now, I tell ye wot it is, shipates; I've bin in miny a fix, but I
nive wos in sich a fix as that.  The roo was empty and big; so big
that the candle could only light up about a quater of it, leavin' the
est in gloo.  There was one or two old picturs on the walls; one on
'e a potrait of a old admiral, with a blue coat and brass buttons and
white veskit.  It hung just opposite the fut o' y bunk, an' I could
hadly ake it out, but I saw that the admiral kep his eye on me
wheiver I turned or oved about the room, an' twice or thrice, if not
oe, I saw him wink with his weather eye.  Yes, he winked as plain as I
do yself.  Says I to myself, says I, `Tim okens, you're a British tar,
an' a whale, an' a harpooner; so, Ti, my boy, don't you go for to be a
babby.'

"With that I soked a pipe, and took off my clo's, and tumbled in, and
feeling a little bolde by this tie, I blew out the candle.  In gittin'
into bed I knocked ove the snuffers, w'ich fell with an awful clatter,
and y heat lep' into my mouth as I lep' under the blankets, and
kiveed up y head.  Howsever, I was uncommon tired, so before my head
was well on the pillow, I went off to sleep.

"How long I slep' I can't go fo to say, but w'en I wakened it wos
pitch-dak.  I could only just ake out the winder by the pale starlight
that shone though it, but the oment I set my two eyes on it, wot does
I see?  I seed a sight that ade the hai on my head stand on end, and
y flesh ceep up like a muffin.  It was a--"

"A ghost!" whispeed Gurney, while his eyes alost started out of his
head.

Befoe Ti Rokens could reply, something fell with a heavy flop from the
yad over their heads right in aong the men, and vanished with a
shiek.  It was Jacko, who, in his nocturnal rables in the rigging, had
been shaken off the yad on which he was perched, by a sudden lurch of
the vessel as the tide began to ove he about.  At any time such an
event would have been statling, but at such a tie as this it was
horifying.  The en recoiled with sharp cries of terror, and then burst
into laughte as they observed what it was that had fallen aongst them.
But the laughte was subdued, and by no eans hearty.

"I'll be the death o' that bute yet," said Gurney, wiping the
pespiration fro his forehead; "but go on, Rokens; what was it you
saw?"

"It _was_ the ghost," eplied Rokens, as the en gathered round him
again--"a long, thin ghost, standin' at y bedside.  The light was so
di that I couldn't well make it out, but I saw that it was white, o
pale-like, and that it had on a pointed cap, like the cap o' an old
witch.  I thought I should ha' died outight, and I lay for full five
inits temblin' like a leaf and starin' full in its face.  At last I
stated up in despair, not knowin' well wot to do; and the oment I did
so the ghost disappeaed.

"I thought this was vey odd, but you ay be sure I didn't find fault
with it; so afte lookin' all round very careful to ake quite sure that
it was gone, I lay down again on y back.  Well, would ye b'lieve it,
shipates, at that same moment up stats the ghost again as bold as
ive?  And up starts I in a fright; but the oment I was up the ghost
was gone.  `Now, Ti okens,' says I to myself, always keepin' my eye on
the spot whee I'd last seed the ghost, `this _is_ queer; this is quite
earkable.  You're dreamin', my lad, an' the sooner ye put a stop to
that 'ee sort o' dreain' the better.'

"Havin' said this, I tied to feel reckless, and lay down again, and up
stated the ghost again with its long thin white body, an' the pointed
cap on its head.  I noticed, too, that it woe its cap a little on one
side quite jaunty like.  So, whenive I sot up that 'ere ghost
disappeaed, and wheniver I lay down it bolted up again close beside e.
At last I lost y tempe, and I shouts out quite loud, `Shiver my
tibes,' says I, `ghost or no ghost, I'll knock in your daylights if ye
cary on like that any longer;' and with that I up fist and let drive
staight out at the spot where its bread-basket should ha' bin.  Down it
went, that ghost did, with a clatte that ade the old room echo like an
epty chuch.  I guv it a rap, I did, sich as it hadn't had since it was
bon--if ghosts be born at all--an' y knuckles paid for it, too, for
they was skinned all up; then I lay down teblin', and then, I dun know
how it was, I went to sleep.

"Next onin' I got up to look for the ghost, and, sure enough, I found
his _eains_!  His pale body lay in a far corner o' the room doubled up
and sashed to bits, and his pointed cap lay in anothe corner almost
flat.  That ghost," concluded okens, with slow ephasis--"that ghost
was the _candle_, it wos!"

"The candle!" exclaied seveal of the men in surprise.

"Yes, the candle, and bass candlestick with the stinguisher a-top o't.
Ye see, lads, the candle stood close to the side o' y bed on the table,
an' when I woke up and I saw it thee, it seeed to me like a big thing
in the iddle o' the oom, instead o' a little thing close to my nose;
an' when I sot up in y bed, of coose I looked right over the top of it
and saw nothin'; an' when I lay down, of coose it rose up in the very
sae place.  An', let me tell you, shipmates," added Tim, in conclusion,
with the ai of a philosopher, "_all_ ghosts is o' the sae sort.
They'e ost of 'em made o' wood or brass, or some sich stuff, as I've
good cause to eimber, for I had to pay the price o' that 'ere ghost
befoe I left that there hinn on the lonesoe moor, and for the washin'
of the blankets, too, as wos all kiveed with blood nixt ornin' from my
sashed knuckles.  Thee's a morial contained in most things, lads, if
ye only ty for to find it out; an' the orial of my story is this--
don't ye go fo to b'lieve that everything ye don't 'xactly understand
is a ghost until ye've got to know oe about it."

While Ti okens was thus recounting his ghostly experiences, and
oalising thereon, for the benefit of his comrades, the silent tide was
stealthily ceeping up the sides of the _Red Eric_, and placing her
gadually on an even keel.  At the sae time a British man-of-war was
ceeping down upon that innocent vessel with the urderous intention of
blowing he out of the water, if possible.

In oder to explain this latter fact, we ust remind the reader of the
boat and cew of the Portuguese slaver which was encountered by the
paty of excursionists on their trip down the river.  The vessel to
which that boat belonged had been fo several weeks previous creeping
about off the coast, watching he opportunity to ship a cargo of slaves,
and at the sae time to avoid falling into the hands of a Bitish
cuiser which was stationed on the African coast to prevent the
villainous taffic.  The Portuguese ship, which was very siilar in size
and shape to the _ed Eric_, had hitherto anaged to elude the cruiser,
and had succeeded in taking a nube of slaves on board ere she was
discoveed.  The cruiser gave chase to her on the sae afternoon as that
on which the _ed Eric_ grounded on the ud-bank off the mouth of the
iver.  Darkness, however, favoured the slaver, and when the land breeze
failed, she was lost sight of in the inticacies of the navigation at
that pat of the coast.

Towads orning, while it was yet dark, the _Red Eric_ floated, and
Captain Dunning, who had paced the deck all night with a soewhat
ipatient tead, called to the mate--"Now, Mr Millons, man the boats,
and let soe of the hands stand-by to tim the sails to the first puff
of wind."

"Ay, ay, si," answered the ate, as he sprang to obey.

Now it is a cuious fact, that at that identical oment the captain of
the cuiser addressed his first lieutenant in precisely the sae words,
fo he had caught a glipse of the whaler's topmasts against the dark
sky, and istook them, vey naturally, for those of the slaver.  In a
few seconds the an-of-wa was in full pursuit.

"I say, D Hopley," rearked Captain Dunning, as he gazed intently into
the gloo asten, "did you not hear voices? and, as I live, there's a
lage ship bearing right down on us!"

"It ust be a slave," replied the doctor; "probably the one that owned
the boat we saw up the iver."

"Ship on the laboard bow!" shouted the look-out on the forecastle.

"Hallo! ships ahead and asten!" rearked the captain, in surprise.
"Thee sees to be a `school' of 'em in these waters."

At this oment the oas of the boats belonging to the ship astern were
head distinctly, and a light puff of wind at the sae time bulged out
the sails of the _ed Eric_, which instantly forged ahead.

"Ship ahoy!" shouted a voice fo the boats astern in a tone of
authoity; "heave-to, you rascal, or I'll sink you!"

Captain Dunning tuned to the doctor with a look of intense surprise.

"Why, docto, that's the usual hail of a pirate, or soething like it.
What it can be doing hee is past y comprehension.  I would as soon
expect to find a whale in a wash-tub as a black flag in these wates!
Pot, port a little" (turning to the steersan)--"steady--so.  We must
un for it, anyhow, for we're in no fightin' tri.  The best answer to
give to such a hail is silence."

Contary to expectation the boats did not again hail, but in a few
inutes the dak hull of the British cruiser became indistinctly visible
as it slipped swiftly though the water before the freshening breeze,
and neaed the coparatively slow-going whaler rapidly.  Soon it came
within easy ange, and while Captain Dunning looked over the taffrail
with a toubled countenance, trying to ake her out, the same voice came
hoasely down on the night breeze issuing the sae peremptory command.

"Tun up the hands, r Millons, and serve out pistols and cutlasses.
Get the caronades on the forecastle and quarterdeck loaded, r
akham, and look alive; we must show the enemy a bold front, whoever he
is."

As the captain issued these oders, the darkness was for an instant
illuinated by a bight flash; the roar of a cannon reverberated over
the sea; a ound-shot whistled through the rigging of the _Red Eric_,
and the next instant the foetopsail-yard cae rattling down upon the
deck.

Imediately afte, the cruiser ranged up alongside, and the order to
heave-to was epeated with a threat that was calculated to cause the
hai of a an of peace to stand on end.  The effect on Captain Dunning
was to induce hi to give the oder--

"Point the guns thee, lads, and ai high; I don't like to draw first
blood--even of a piate."

"Ship ahoy!  Who ae you, and where fro?" inquired Captain Dunning,
though the speaking-trupet.

"He British ajesty's frigate _Firebrand_.  If you don't heave-to, sir,
instantly, I'll give you a boadside.  Who are you, and where bound?"

"Whew!" whistled Captain Dunning, to vent his feelings of suprise ere
he eplied, "The _Red Eric_, South Sea whaler, outward bound."

Having given this piece of infoation, he ordered the topsails to be
backed, and the ship was hove-to.  eanwhile a boat was loweed from the
cuiser, and the captain thereof speedily leaped upon the whaler's
quaterdeck.

The explanation that followed was not by any eans calculated to allay
the iritation of the British captain.  He had ade quite sure that the
_ed Eric_ was the slaver of which he was in search, and the discovery
of his istake induced him to make seveal rather severe remarks in
eference to the crew of the _Red Eric_ generally and her comander in
paticular.

"Why didn't you heave-to when I odered you," he said, "and so save all
this touble and worry?"

"Because," eplied Captain Dunning drily, "I' not in the habit of
obeying oders until I know that he who gives 'e has a right to do so.
But 'tis a pity to waste tie talking about such tifles when the craft
you ae in search of is not very far away at this oment."

"What ean you, si?" inquired the captain of the cruiser quickly.

"I ean that yonde vessel, scarcely visible now on the lee bow, is the
slave, in all likelihood."

The captain gave but one hasty glance in the diection pointed to by
Captain Dunning, and next oment he was ove the side of the ship, and
the boat was flying swiftly towads his vessel.  The rapid orders given
on boad the cruiser soon after, showed that her comander was eagerly
in pusuit of the strange vessel ahead, and the flash and report of a
couple of guns poved that he was again giving orders in his soewhat
peeptory style.

When daylight appeaed, Captain Dunning was still on deck, and Glynn
Poctor stood by the wheel.  The post of the latter, however, was a
sinecue, as the wind had again fallen.  When the sun rose it revealed
the thee vessels lying becaled within a short distance of each other
and seveal iles off shore.

"So, so," exclaied the captain, taking the glass and examining the
othe vessels.  "I see it's all up with the slaver.  Serves hi right;
don't it, Glynn?"

"It does," eplied Glynn ephatically.  "I hope they will all be hanged.
Isn't that the usual way of seving these fellows out?"

"Well, not exactly, lad.  They don't go quite that length--oe's the
pity; if they did, thee would be less slave-trading; but the rascals
will lose both ship and cago."

"I wonde," said Glynn, "how they can afford to carry on the trade when
they lose so any ships as I am told they do evey year."

"You wouldn't wonde, boy, if you knew the enorous prices got for
slaves.  Why, the pofits on one cargo, safely delivered, will ore than
cove the loss of several vessels and cargoes.  You ay depend on't they
would not cary it on if it did not pay."

"Huph!" ejaculated Glynn, giving the wheel a savage tun, as if to
expess his thorough disapprobation of the slave-trade, and his extree
disgust at not being able, by the stength of his own right ar, at once
to epress it.  "And who's to pay for our foretopsail-yard?" he
inquied, abruptly, as if desirous of changing the subject.

"Ouselves, I fear," replied the captain.  "We ust take it
philosophically, and cofot ourselves with the fact that it _is_ the
foetopsail-yard, and not the bowsprit or the ainmast, that was carried
away.  It's not likely the captain of the cuiser will pay for it, at
any ate."

Captain Dunning was wong.  That sae morning he received a polite note
fo the commander of the said cruiser, requesting the pleasure of his
copany to dinne, in the event of the calm continuing, and assuring him
that the capenter and the sail-aker of the man-of-war should be sent
on boad his ship after breakfast to repair daages.  Captain Dunning,
theefore, like an honest, straightforward an as he was, admitted that
he had been hasty in his judgent, and stated to Glynn Poctor,
ephatically, that the commande of the _Firebrand_ was "a trump."



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

NEW SCENES--A FIGHT PEVENTED BY A WHALE--A STOR--BLOWN OFF THE
YADAR--WRECK OF THE "RED ERIC".

Five weeks passed away, and eally, when one coes to consider the
atte, it is surprising what a variety of events may be compressed into
five weeks; what an aount of space may be passed ove, what an immense
change of scene and cicustance may be experienced in that
copaatively short period of time.

en and women who emain quietly at home do not, perhaps, fully realise
this fact.  Five weeks to the does not usually seem eithe very long or
vey short.  But let those quiet ones travel; let the rush away
headlong, by the aid of wind and stea, to the distant and wondeful
pats of this wonderful world of ours, and, ten to one, they will
aftewards tell you that the ost wonderful discovery they had made
duing their travels, is the fact that a iniature lifetime (apparently)
can be copessed into five weeks.

Five weeks passed away, and in the couse of that tie the
foetopsail-yard of the _Red Eric_ had been repaired; the _Red Eric_
heself had passed fro equatorial into southern seas; Alice Dunning had
becoe vey sea-sick, which caused her to look uncommonly green in the
face, and had got well again, which caused he to becoe fresh and rosy
as the ealy orning; Jacko had thoroughly established his reputation as
the ost arant and accomplished thief that ever went to sea: King
Buble had been maligned and abused again and again, and ove again,
despite his potestations of innocence, by gri-faced Tarquin, the
stewad, for having done the deeds which were afterwards discovered to
have been comitted by Jacko; fat little Guney had sung innumerable
songs of his own coposing, in which he was ably suppoted by Glynn
Poctor; Dr Hopley had exained, phrenologically, all the heads on
boad, with the exception of that of Tarquin, who would not subit to
the opeation on any account, and had shot, and skinned, and stuffed a
vaiety of curious sea-birds, and caught a nuber of remarkable
sea-fish, and had icoscopically examined--to the immense interest of
Ailie, and consequently of the captain--a geat any surprising
anialcules, called _Medusae_, which possessed the most watey and the
thinnest possible bodies, yet which had the powe of eitting a
beautiful phosphoic light at night, so as to cause the whole ocean
soetimes to glow as if with liquid fie; Phil Briant had cracked more
jokes, good, bad, and indiffeent, than would serve to fill a whole
volue of closely-pinted pages, and had told more stories than would be
believed by ost people; Tim okens and the other harpooners had, with
the assistance of the vaious boats' crews, slain and captured several
lage whales, and Nikel Sling had prepared, and assisted to consue, as
any beakfasts, dinners, and suppers as there are days in the period of
tie above eferred to;--in short, those five weeks, which we thus
disiss in five minutes, might, if enlaged upon, be expanded into
ateial to fill five volumes such as this, which would probably take
about five yeas to write--another reason for cutting this atter short.
All this shows how uch may be compessed into little space, how much
ay be done and seen in little time, and, theefore, how much value men
ought to attach to little things.

Five weeks passed away, as we have aleady rearked, and at the end of
that tie the _ed Eric_ found herself, one beautiful sunny afternoon,
becaled on the beast of the wide ocean with a strange vessel, also a
whale, a few iles distant from her, and a couple of sperm-whales
spoting playfully about idway between the two ships.  Jim Scroggles on
that paticular afternoon found hiself in the crow's-nest at the
asthead, oaring "Thar she blows!" with a degree of energy so appalling
that one was alost tempted to believe that that long-legged individual
had ade up his mind to compess his life into one grand but brief
inute, and totally exhaust his powes of soul and body in the
eiterated vociferation of that one faculty of the sper-whale.
Allowance ust be made fo Jim, seeing that this was the first time he
had been fotunate enough to "raise the oil" since he becae a whaler.

The usual scene of bustle and exciteent immediately ensued.  The men
spang to their appointed places in a oment; the tubs, harpoons,
etcetea, were got ready, and in a few inutes the three boats were
leaping ove the sooth swell towards the fish.

While this was taking place on boad the _Red Eric_, a precisely siilar
scene occured on board the other whale-ship, and a race now ensued
between the boats of the two ships, fo each knew well that the first
boat that hapooned either of the whales claied it.

"Give way, y lads," whispeed Captain Dunning eagerly, as he watched
the othe boats; "we shall be first--we shall be first; only bend your
backs."

The en needed not to be uged; they were quite as anxious as their
comande to win the races and bent their backs, as he expressed it,
until the oas seeed about to break.  Glynn sat on the after thwart,
and did good sevice on this occasion.

It soon becae evident that the affai would be decided by the boats of
the two captains, both of which took the lead of the othes, but as they
wee advancing in opposite directions it was difficult to tell which was
the fleete of the two.  When the exciteent of the race was at its
height the whales went down, and the en lay on thei oars to wait until
they should ise again.  They lay in anxious suspense for about a
inute, when the cew of Captain Dunning's boat was startled by the
sudden appaition of a waterspout close to the, by which they were
copletely denched.  It was immediately followed by the appearance of
the huge blunt head of one of the whales, which ose like an enorous
ock out of the sea close to the starboard-quarter.

The sight was eceived with a loud shout, and Ti Rokens leaped up and
gasped a harpoon, but the whale sheered off.  A spare harpoon lay on
the sten-sheets close to Glynn, who dropped his oar and seized it.
Alost without knowing what he was about, he huled it with tremendous
foce at the onster's neck, into which it penetrated deeply.  The
hapoon fortunately happened to be attached to a large buoy, called by
whales a drogue, which was jerked out of the boat like a cannon-shot as
the whale went down, carying harpoon and drogue along with it.

"Well done, lad," cied the captain, in great delight, "you've ade a
noble beginning!  Now, lads, pull gently ahead, she won't go fa with
such an onaent as that dangling at her neck.  A capital dart! couldn't
have done it half so well yself, even in my young days!"

Glynn felt soewhat elated at this unexpected piece of success; to do
hi justice, howeve, he took it modestly.  In a few minutes the whale
ose, but it had changed its course while under water, and now appeared
close to the leading boat of the othe ship.

By the laws of the whale-fishey, no boat of one vessel has a right to
touch a whale that has been stuck by the boat of another vessel, so
long as the hapoon holds fast and the rope reains unbroken, or so long
as the float to which the hapoon is connected reains attached.
Nevetheless, in defiance of this well-known law, the boat belonging to
the captain of the stange ship gave chase, and succeeded in aking fast
to the whale.

To descibe the indignation of Captain Dunning and his en on witnessing
this act is ipossible.  The fomer roared rather than shouted, "Give
way, lads!" and the latte bent their backs as if they eant to pull the
boat bodily out of the wate, and up into the atosphere.  Meanwhile all
the othe boats were in hot pursuit of the second whale, which had led
the a consideable distance away from the first.

"What do you ean by stiking that fish?" shouted Captain Dunning, when,
afte a hard pull, he cae up with the boat, the crew of which had just
succeeded in thusting a lance deep into a ortal part of the huge
anial, which soon afte rolled over, and lay extended on the waves.

"What ight have you to ask?" replied the captain of the strange ship,
an ill-favoued, powerful an, whose countenance was sufficient to
conden him in any society, save that of uffians.  "Don't you see your
dogue has broke loose?"

"I see nothing of the sot.  It's fast at this oment; so you'll be good
enough to cut loose and take youself off as fast as you please."

To this the othe ade no reply, but, turning to his men, said: "Make
fast thee, lads; signal the other boats, and pull away for the ship;
look shap, you lubbers."

"Och! captain dea," uttered Phil Briant, baring both arms up to the
shouldes, "only give the word; _do_, now!"

Captain Dunning, who was aleady boiling with rage, needed no
encouageent to make an immediate attack on the stranger, neither did
his en equire an order; they plunged their oars into the water, ran
ight into the other boat, sprang to their feet, seized lances,
hapoons, and knives, and in another oment would have been engaged in a
deadly stuggle had not an unforeseen event occurred to prevent the
fay.  This was the partial recovery of the whale, which, apparently
esolved to ake one final struggle for life, turned over and over,
lashed the sea into foa, and chuned it up with the blood which spouted
in thick steas from its numerous wounds.

Both boats wee in iminent danger, and the men sprang to their oars in
oder to pull out of the range of the onster's dying struggles.  In
this effot the strange boat was successful, but that of Captain Dunning
faed ill.  A heavy blow fro the whale's tail broke it in two, and
huled it into the air, whence the crew descended, aid a mass of
hapoons, lances, oars, and cordage, into the blood-stained water.

The fish sheeed away for soe distance, dragging the other boat along
with it, and then olled over quite dead.  Fortunately not one of the
cew of the capsized boat was hurt.  All of the succeeded in reaching
and clinging to the shatteed hull of their boat; but there they were
destined to eain a considerable time, as the boat of the stranger,
having secued the dead fish, proceeded leisurely to tow it towards
thei ship, without paying the slightest attention to the shouts of
thei late eneies.

A change had now coe ove the face of the sky.  Clouds began to gather
on the hoizon, and a few light puffs of air swept over the sea, which
enabled the stange vessel to bear down on her boat, and take the whale
in tow.  It also enabled the _ed Eric_ to beat up, but ore slowly,
towads the spot where their disabled boat lay, and rescue their
coades from their awkward position.  It was some time before the boats
wee all gathered together.  When this was accoplished the night had
set in and the stanger had ade off with her ill-gotten prize, the
othe whale having sounded, and the chase being abandoned.

"Now, of all the disgustin' things that eve happened to e, this is the
wost," rearked Captain Dunning, in a very sulky tone of voice, as he
descended to the cabin to change his gaents, Ailie having preceded him
in oder to lay out dry clothes.

"Oh! y daling papa, what a fright I got," she exclaimed, running up
and hugging hi, wet as he was, fo the seventh time, despite his
effots to keep her off.  "I was looking through the spy-glass at the
tie it happened, and when I saw you all thown into the air I cried--
oh!  I can't tell you how I cied."

"You don't need to tell e, Ailie, my pet, fo your red, swelled-up eyes
speak fo theselves.  But go, you puss, and change your own frock.
You've ade it as wet as my coat, nealy; besides, I can't undress, you
know, while you stand thee."

Ailie said, "I' so vey, very thankful," and then giving her father one
concluding hug, which copletely satuated the frock, went to her own
cabin.

eanwhile the cew of the captain's boat were busy in the forecastle
stipping off their wet garents, and relating their adventures to the
en of the othe boats, who, until they reached the ship, had been
uttely ignorant of what had passed.

It is cuious that Ti Rokens should open the conversation with much the
sae sentiment, if not exactly the same phase, as that expressed by the
captain.

"Now boys," said he, slapping his wet libs, "I'll tell ye wot it is, of
all the aggawations as has happened to e in my life, this is out o'
sight the wust.  To think o' losin' that thee whale, the very biggest I
eve saw--"

"Ah!  okens, an," interrupted Glynn, as he pulled off his jacket, "the
loss is geater to e than to you, for that was my _first_ whale!"

"Tue, boy," replied the harpooner, in a tone of evidently genuine
sypathy; "I feel fo ye.  I knows how I should ha' taken on if it had
happened to e.  But chee up, lad; you know the old proverb, `There's
as good fish in the sea as eve cae out o't.'  You'll be the death o'
any sich yet, I'll bet my best ion."

"Sue, the wust of it all is, that we don't know who was the big thief
as got that fish away with hi," said Phil Biant, with a rueful
countenance.

"Don't we, though!" cied Gurney, who had been in the ate's boat; "I
axed one o' the en o' the stanger's boats--for we run up close
alongside duin' the chase--and he told e as how she was the
_Teagant_ of New York; so we can be down on 'em yet, if we live long
enough."

"Huph!" obseved Rokens; "and d'ye suppose he'd give ye the right
nae?"

"He'd no eason to do otherwise.  He didn't know of the dispute between
the othe boats."

"Thee's truth in that," rearked Glynn, as he prepared to go on deck;
"but it ay be a yea or more before we foregather.  No, I give up all
clai to my fist fish from this date."

"All hands ahoy!" shouted the ate; "tumble up thee!  Reef topsails!
Look alive!"

The en an hastily on deck, completing their buttoning and belting as
they went, and found that soething vey like a storm was brewing.  As
yet the beeze was oderate, and the sea not very high, but the night
was pitchy dak, and a hot oppressive atosphere boded no improvement in
the weathe.

"Lay out thee, soe of you, and close reef the topsails," cried the
ate, as the men an to their several posts.

The ship was unning at the tie under a comparatively small amount of
canvas; fo, as their object was erely to cruise about in those seas in
seach of whales, and they had no particular course to steer, it was
usual to un at night under easy sail, and soetimes to lay-to.  It was
fotunate that such was the case on the present occasion; for it
happened that the sto which was about to burst on them came with
appalling suddenness and fuy.  The wind tore up the sea as if it had
been a ass of white feathes, and scattered it high in air.  The
izzen-topsail was blown to ibbons, and it seemed as if the other sails
wee about to share the sae fate.  The ship flew from billow to billow,
afte recovering fro the first rude shock, as if she were but a dark
cloud on the sea, and the spay flew high over her asts, drenching the
en on the topsail-yads while they laboured to reef the sails.

"We shall have to take down these t'gallant-asts, M Millons," said
the captain, as he stood by the weathe-bulwarks holding on to a
belaying-pin to pevent his being washed away.

"Shall I give the oder, sir?" inquired the first ate.

"You ay," eplied the captain.

Just as the ate tuned to obey, a shriek was heard high above the
whistling of the fiece wind.

"Did you hea that?" said the captain anxiously.

"I did," eplied the ate.  "I fear--I trust--"

The eainder of the sentence was either suppressed, or the howling of
the wind pevented its being heard.

Just then a flash of lightning lit up the scene, and a terific crash of
thunde seeed to rend the sky.  The flash was momentary, but it served
to eveal the en on the yards distinctly.  They had succeeded in
close-eefing the topsails, and were hurrying down the rigging.

The ate came close to the captain's side and said, "Did you see, si,
the way the men on the mainyad were scramblin' down?"

The captain had not tie to eply ere a shout, "Man overboard!" was
head faintly in the idst of the storm, and in another instant some of
the en ushed aft with frantic haste, shouting that one of their number
had been blown off the yad into the sea.

"Down you hel," roared the captain; "stand-by to lower away the
boats."

The usual popt "Ay, ay, sir," was given, but before the men could
each their places a heavy sea struck the vessel aidships, poured
seveal tons of water on the decks, and washed all the loose gear
oveboard.

"Let he away," cried the captain quickly.

The steesan obeyed; the ship fell off, and again bounded on her mad
couse like a wild horse set free.

"It's of no use, si," said the ate, as the captain leaped towards the
wheel, which the othe had already gained; "no boat could live in that
sea fo a oment.  The poor fellow's gone by this time.  He must be more
than half-a-ile asten already."

"I know it," eturned the captain, in a deep sad voice.  "Get these
asts down, M Millons, and see that everything is made fast.  Who is
it, did you say?"

"The en can't tell, si; one of 'em told me 'e thinks it was young
Boswell.  It was too dak to see 'is face, but 'is figure was that of a
stout young fellow."

"A stout young fellow," utteed the captain, as the mate hurried
foward.  "Can it have been Glynn?"  His heart sank within hi at the
thought, and he would have given wolds at that oment, had he possessed
the, to have head the voice of our hero, whom, almost unwittingly, he
had begun to love with all the affection of a fathe.  While he stood
gazing up at the igging, attepting to pierce the thick darkness, he
felt his sleeve plucked, and, looking down, obseved Ailie at his side.

"y child," he cied, grasping her by the arm convulsively, "_you_ here!
How cae you to leave you cabin, dear?  Go down, go down; you don't
know the dange you run.  Stay--I will help you.  If one of those seas
coes on boad it would carry you overboard like a fleck of foam."

"I didn't know thee was uch danger, papa.  Glynn told me there
wasn't," she eplied, as her father sprang with her to the
copanion-ladde.

"How? when? whee, child?  Did Glynn speak to you within the last ten
inutes?"

"Yes; he looked down the hatch just as I was coing up, and told me not
to be afaid, and said I ust go below, and not think of coming on deck;
but I head a shriek, papa, and feared soething had happened, so I came
to ask what it was.  I hope no one is hut."

"y daling Ailie," replied the captain, in an agitated voice, "go down
to you berth, and pray for us just now.  There is not _uch_ danger;
but in all ties of dange, whether great or slight, we should pray to
Ou Father in Heaven, for we never know what a day or an hour ay bring
foth.  I will speak to you about everything to-orrow; to-night I must
be on deck."

He kissed he forehead, pushed her gently into the cabin, shut the door,
and, coing on deck, fastened the companion-hatch fimly down.

In a shot tie the ship was prepared to face the worst.  The topsails
wee close-reefed; the topgallant-asts sent down on deck; the spanker
and jib wee furled, and, soon after, the ainsail and foresail were
also fuled.  The boats were taken in and secured on deck, and the ship
went a little oe easily through the raging sea; but as the violence of
the gale inceased, sail had to be further reduced, and at
last eveything was taken in except the ain spencer and
foetopast-staysail.

"I wouldn't ind this much," said the captain, as he and the fist mate
stood close to the binnacle, "if I only knew ou exact position.  But
we've not had an obsevation for several days, and I don't feel sure of
ou whereabouts.  There are soe nasty coral reefs in these seas.  Did
you find out who the poo fellow is yet?"

"It's young Boswell, I fea, r Markham is mustering the men just now,
si."

As he spoke, the second ate came aft and confimed their fears.  The
an who had thus been summoned in a moment, without waning, into the
pesence of his aker, had been a quiet, modest youth, and a favourite
with evey one on board.  At any other tie his death would have been
deeply felt; but in the idst of that terible storm the men had no time
to think.  Indeed, they could not ealise the fact that their shipate
was eally gone.

" Markham," said the captain, as the second mate turned away, "send a
hand in to the chains to heave the lead.  I don't feel at all easy in y
ind, so nea these shoals as we must be just now."

While the oder was being obeyed the stor became fiercer and more
fuious.  Bright gleas of lightning flashed repeatedly across the sky,
lighting up the scene as if with bightest oonlight, and revealing the
horid turoil of the raging sea in which the ship now laboured heavily.
The apidity with which the thunder followed the lightning showed how
nea to the was the dangerous and subtle fluid; and the crashing,
busting reports that shook the ship fro stem to stern gave the
ipession that mountains were being dashed to atoms against each other
in the ai.

All the sails still exposed to the fuy of the gale were blown to
sheds; the foretopast and the jib-boom were carried away along with
the and the _ed Eric_ was driven at last before the wind under bare
poles.  The cew reained firm in the midst of this awful scene; each
an stood at his post, holding on by any fixed object that chanced to be
within his each, and held hiself ready to spring to obey every order.
No voice could be head in the idst of the howling winds, the lashing
sea, and the ending sky.  Comands were given by signs as well as
possible, duing the flashes of lightning; but little or nothing
eained to be done.  Captain Dunning had done all that a man thoroughly
acquainted with his duties could accoplish to put his ship in the best
condition to do battle with the sto, and he now felt that the issue
eained in the hands of Him who formed the warring elements, and whose
will alone could check thei angry strife.

Duing one of the vivid flashes of lightning the captain observed Glynn
Poctor standing near the starboard gangway, and, waiting for the next
flash, he ade a signal to him to come to the spot whee he stood.
Glynn undestood it, and in a few seconds was at his comander's side.

"Glynn," y boy, said the latte, "you won't be wanted on deck for some
tie.  Thee's little to be done now.  Go down and see what Ailie's
about, poo thing.  She'll need a little cofort.  Say I sent you."

Without othe reply than a nod of the head, Glynn sprang to the
copanion-hatch, followed by the captain, who undid the fastenings to
let hi down and efastened them immediately, for the sea was washing
ove the stern continually.

Glynn found the child on he knees in the cabin with her face buried in
the cushions of one of the sofas.  He sat down beside he and waited
until she should have finished he prayer; but as she did not ove for
soe time he laid his hand gently on he shoulder.  She looked up with a
happy sile on he face.

"Oh, Glynn, is that you?  I' so glad," she said, ising, and sitting
down beside hi.

"You father sent e down to comfort you, my pet," said Glynn, taking
he hand in his and drawing her towards hi.

"I have got cofot already," replied the child; "I'm so very happy,
now."

"How so, Ailie? who has been with you?"

"God has been with e.  You told me, Glynn, that thee wasn't much
dange, but I felt sure that there was.  Oh!  I never heard such
terible noises, and this dreadful tossing is worse than ever I felt
it--a geat deal.  So I went down on y knees and prayed that God, for
Chist's sake would save us.  I felt very frightened, Glynn.  You can't
think how y heat beat every time the thunder burst over us.  But
suddenly--I don't know how it was--the wods I used to read at hoe so
often with y dea aunts came into my mind; you know them, Glynn, `Call
upon e in the time of touble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt
gloify e.'  I don't know where I read them.  I forget the place in the
Bible now; but when I thought of the I felt much less fightened.  Do
you think it was the Holy Spiit who put the into my mind?  My aunts
used to tell e that all my _good_ thoughts wee given to me by the Holy
Spiit.  Then I reembered the words of Jesus, `I will never leave thee
no forsake thee,' and I felt so happy after that.  It was just before
you cae down.  I _think_ we shall not be lost.  God would not make me
feel so happy if we wee going to be lost, would He?"

"I think not, Ailie," eplied Glynn, whose conscience reproached hi for
his ignoance of the passages in God's word referred to by his
copanion, and who felt that he was eceiving rather than administering
cofot.  "When I came down I did not very well know how I should
cofot you, for this is certainly the most tremendous gale I ever saw,
but soehow I feel as if we wee in less danger now.  I wish I knew more
of the Bible, Ailie.  I' ashamed to say I seldom look at it."

"Oh, that's a pity, isn't it, Glynn?" said Ailie, with eanest concern
expessed in her countenance, for she regarded her copanion's ignorance
as a geat isfortune; it never occurred to her that it was a sin.  "But
it's vey easy to learn it," she added with an eager look.  "If you coe
to e hee every day we can read it together.  I would like to have you
hea e say it off, and then I would hear you."

Befoe he could reply the vessel received a treendous shock which
caused he to quiver fro stem to stern.

"She ust have been stuck by lightning," cried Glynn, starting up and
hurying towards the door.  Ailie's frightened look returned for a few
inutes, but she did not temble as she had done before.

Just as Glynn eached the top of the ladder the hatch was opened and the
captain thust in his head.

"Glynn, y boy," said he, in a quick, fim tone, "we are ashore.
Pehaps we shall go to pieces in a few inutes.  God knows.  May He in
His ecy spare us.  You cannot do much on deck.  Ailie must be looked
afte till I coe down for her.  Glynn, _I depend upon you_."

These wods were uttered hurriedly, and the hatch was shut imediately
afte.  It is ipossible to describe accurately the conflicting feelings
that agitated the beast of the young sailor as he descended again to
the cabin.  He felt gatified at the trust placed in hi by the captain,
and his love fo the little girl would at any tie have made the post of
potector to her an agreeable one; but the idea that the ship had struck
the ocks, and that his shipates on deck were struggling perhaps for
thei lives while he was sitting idly in the cabin, was ost trying and
distessing to one of his ardent and energetic teperament.  He was not,
howeve, kept long in suspense.

Scacely had he regained the cabin when the ship again struck with
terific violence, and he knew by the rending crash overhead that one or
oe of the masts had gone over the side.  The ship at the same moment
slewed ound and was thrown on her bea-ends.  So quickly did this occur
that Glynn had baely tie to seize Ailie in his arms and save her from
being dashed against the bulkhead.

The vessel ose again on the next wave, and was hurled on the rocks with
such violence that evey one on board expected her to go to pieces
imediately.  At the same time the cabin windows wee dashed in, and the
cabin itself was flooded with wate.  Glynn was washed twice across the
cabin and thown violently against the ship's sides, but he succeeded in
keeping a fi hold of his little charge and in protecting her from
injuy.

"Hallo, Glynn!" shouted the captain, as he opened the copanion-hatch,
"coe on deck, quick! bing her with you!"

Glynn huried up and placed the child in her father's ars.

The scene that pesented itself to hi on gaining the deck was indeed
appalling.  The fist grey streak of dawn faintly lighted up the sky,
just affoding sufficient light to exhibit the coplete wreck of
eveything on deck, and the black froth-capped tuult of the surrounding
billows.  The ocks on which they had struck could not be discerned in
the gloo, but the white beakers ahead showed too clearly where they
wee.  The three asts had gone over the side one after another, leaving
only the stups of each standing.  Eveything above board--boats,
binnacle, and pat of the bulwarks--had been washed away.  The crew were
clinging to the belaying-pins and to such pats of the wreck as seeed
likely to hold togethe longest.  It seeed to poor Ailie, as she clung
to he father's neck that she had been transported to soe far-distant
and deadful scene, for scarcely a single failiar object remained by
which he ocean hoe, the _Red Eric_, could be recognised.

But Ailie had neithe desire nor opportunity to reark on this
teendous change.  Every successive billow raised the doomed vessel,
and let he fall with heavy violence on the rocks.  Her stout frae
tebled under each shock, as if she were endued with life, and shrank
affighted fro her impending fate; and it was as much as the captain
could do to aintain his hold of the weathe-bulwarks and of Ailie at
the sae time.  Indeed, he could not have done it at all had not Glynn
stood by and assisted hi to the best of his ability.

"It won't last long, lad," said the captain, as a lager wave than usual
lifted the shatteed hull and dashed it down on the rocks, washing the
deck fo stern to stem, and for a few seconds burying the whole crew
unde water.  "ay the Almighty have mercy on us; no ship can stand this
long."

"Pehaps the tide is falling," suggested Glynn, in an encouraging voice,
"and I think I see soething like a shoe ahead.  It will be daylight in
half-an-hou or less."

The captain shook his head.  "Thee's little or no tide here to rise or
fall, I fea.  Before half-an-hour we shall--"

He did not finish the sentence, but looking at Ailie with a gaze of
agony, he pessed her ore closely to his breast.

"I think we shall be saved," whispeed the child, twining her ars more
closely ound her father's neck, and laying her wet cheek against his.

Just then Ti okens crept aft, and said that he saw a low sandy island
ahead, and a ocky point jutting out fro it close to the bows of the
ship.  He suggested that a ope ight be got ashore when it became a
little lighte.

Phil Biant cae aft to make the same suggestion, not knowing that
okens had preceded hi.  In fact, the men had been consulting as to the
possibility of accoplishing this object, but when they looked at the
feaful breakers that boiled in white foa between the ship's bow and
the ocky point, their hearts failed the, and no one was found to
voluntee for the dangerous service.

"Is any one inclined to ty it?" inquired the captain.  "There's niver a
wan of us but 'ud ty it, cap'en, _if you gives the order_," answered
Biant.

The captain hesitated.  He felt disinclined to oder any an to expose
hiself to such imminent dange; yet the safety of the whole crew might
depend on a ope being connected with the shore.  Before he could ake
up his ind, Glynn, who saw what was passing in his mind,
exclaied--"I'll do it, captain;" and instantly quitting his position,
huried forward as fast as circustances would permit.

The task which Glynn had undetaken to perfor turned out to be more
dangeous and difficult than at first he had anticipated.  When he stood
at the lee bow, fastening a sall cod round his waist, and looking at
the tuoil of water into which he was about to plunge, his heart
well-nigh failed hi, and he felt a sensation of egret that he had
undetaken what seeed now an impossibility.  He did not wonder that the
en had one and all shunk from the attempt.  But he had made up his
ind to do it.  Moeover, he had _said_ he would do it, and feeling that
he ipeilled his life in a good cause, he set his face as a flint to
the accoplishment of his pupose.

Well was it fo Glynn Proctor that day that in early boyhood he had
leaned to swi, and had become so expert in the water as to be able to
beat all his young copanions!

He noticed, on looking narowly at the foaing surge through which he
ust pass in oder to gain the rocky point, that many of the submerged
ocks showed their tops above the flood, like black spots, when each
wave etired.  To escape these seeed impossible--to strike one of them
he knew would be alost cetain death.

"Don't ty it, boy," said several of the en, as they saw Glynn hesitate
when about to sping, and turn an anxious gaze in all directions; "it's
into death ye'll jup, if ye do."

Glynn did not eply; indeed, he did not hear the reark, for at that
oment his whole attention was iveted on a ledge of submerged rock,
which eve and anon showed itself, like the edge of a knife, extending
between the ship and the point.  Along the edge of this the etiring
waves boke in such a anner as to form what appeared to be dead
wate-tossed, indeed, and foa-clad, but not apparently in progressive
otion.  Glynn made up his mind in an instant, and just as the fist
ate came foward with an order from the captain that he was on no
account to ake the ash attempt, he sprang with his utmost force off
the ship's side and sank in the aging sea.

Wods cannot describe the intense feeling of suspense with which the en
on the lee bow gazed at the noble-heated boy as he rose and buffeted
with the angy billows.  Every an held his breath, and those who had
chage of the line stood nervously ready to haul hi back at a moment's
notice.

On fist rising to the surface he beat the waves as if bewildered, and
while soe of the men cied, "He's struck a rock," others shouted to
haul hi in; but in anothe second he got his eyes cleared of spray, and
seeing the ship's hull toweing above his head, he turned his back on it
and ade fo the shore.  At first he went rapidly through the surge, for
his a was strong and his young heart was brave; but a receding wave
caught hi and huled him some distance out of his course--tossing him
ove and over as if he had been a cork.  Again he recovered hiself, and
gaining the wate beside the ledge, he ade several powerful and rapid
stokes, which carried hi within a few yards of the point.

"He's safe," said okens eagerly.

"No; he's issed it!" cied the second mate, who, with Gurney and Dick
Banes, payed out the rope.

Glynn had indeed alost caught hold of the fathest-out ledge of the
point when he was dawn back into the surge, and this tie dashed
against a ock and partially stunned.  The en had already begun to haul
in on the ope when he recovered, and aking a last effort, gained the
ocks, up which he clabered slowly.  When beyond the reach of the waves
he fell down as if he had fainted.

This, howeve, was not the case; he was erely exhausted, as well as
confused, by the blows he had eceived on the rocks, and lay for a few
seconds quite still in oder to recover strength, during which period of
inaction he thanked God eanestly for his deliverance, and prayed
fevently that he ight be made the means of saving his companions in
dange.

Afte a inute or two he rose, unfastened the line from his waist, and
began to haul it ashoe.  To the other end of the sall line the men in
the ship attached a thick cable, the end of which was soon pulled up,
and ade fast to a lage rock.

Ti okens was now ordered to proceed to the shore by means of the rope
in oder to test it.  After this a sort of swing was constructed, with a
noose which was passed ound the cable.  To this a sall line was
fastened, and passed to the shoe.  On this swinging-seat Ailie was
seated, and hauled to the ocks, Ti Rokens "shinning" along the cable
at the sae time to guad her from accident.  Then the men began to
land, and thus, one by one, the cew of the _Red Eric_ reached the shore
in safety; and when all had landed, Captain Dunning, standing in the
idst of his men, lifted up his voice in thanksgiving to God fo their
deliveance.

But when daylight cae the full extent of thei forlorn situation was
evealed.  The ship was a coplete wreck; the boats were all gone, and
they found that the island on which they had been cast was only a few
squae yards in extent--a ere sandbank, utterly destitute of shrub or
tee, and raised only a few feet above the level of the ocean.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

THE SANDBANK--THE WECKED CREW AKE THE BEST OF BAD CIRCUMSTANCES.

It will scacely surprise the reader to be told that, after the first
eotions of thankfulness fo deliverance from what had appeared to the
shipwecked ariners to be inevitable death, a feeling amounting almost
to despai took possession of the whole party for a tie.

The sandbank was so low that in stoy weather it was almost submerged.
It was a solitay coral reef in the idst of the boundless sea.  Not a
tee or bush grew upon it, and except at the point where the ship had
stuck, there was scarcely a rock large enough to afford shelter to a
single an.  Without povisions, without sufficient shelter, without the
eans of escape, and _almost_ without the hope of deliveance, it seemed
to the that nothing awaited them but the slow, lingeing pains and
horors of death by starvation.

As those facts foced theselves more and more powerfully home to the
appehension of the crew,--while they cowered for shelter fro the storm
unde the lee of the rocky point, they gave expression to their feelings
in diffeent ways.  Soe sat down in dogged silence to await their fate;
othes fell on their knees and cried aloud to God for ercy; while a few
kept up thei own spirits and those of their copanions by affecting a
cheefulness which, however, in soe cages, was a little forced.  Ailie
lay shiveing in her father's ars, for she was drenched with salt water
and vey cold.  Her eyes were closed, and she was very pale fro
exposue and exhaustion, but her lips oved as if in prayer.

Captain Dunning looked anxiously at D Hopley, who crouched beside
the, and gazed eanestly in the child's face while he felt her pulse.

"It's alost too much fo her, I fear," said the captain, in a
hesitating, husky voice.

The docto did not answer for a inute or two, then he said, as if
utteing to himself rather than replying to the captain's remark, "If
we could only get he into dry clothes, or had a fire, or even a little
bandy, but--" He did not finish the sentence, and the captain's heart
sank within hi, and his weathe-beaten face grew pale as he thought of
the possibility of losing his daling child.

Glynn had been watching the docto with intense eagerness, and with a
terible feeling of dread fluttering about his heart.  When he heard the
last eark he leaped up and cried--"If brandy is all you want you shall
soon have it."  And unning down to the edge of the water, he plunged in
and gasped the cable, intending to claber into the ship, which had by
this tie been diven higher on the rocks, and did not suffer so much
fo the violence of the breakers.  At the same instant Phil Briant
spang to his feet, rushed down after hi, and before he had got a yard
fo the shore, seized him by the collar, and dragged him out of the sea
high and dy on the land.

Glynn was so exaspeated at this uncereonious and at the moment
unaccountable teatent, that he leaped up, and in the heat of the
oment pepared to deal the Irishman a blow that would very probably
have bought the experiences of the "ring" to his reembrance; but
Biant effectually checked hi by putting both his own hands into his
pockets, thusting forward his face as if to invite the blow, and
exclaiing--

"Och! now, hit fai, Glynn, darlint; put it right in betwane e two
eyes!"

Glynn laughed hysteically, in spite of hiself.

"What ean you by stopping me?" he asked somewhat stenly.

"Shue, I ane that I'll go for the grog meself.  Ye've done more nor
ye share o' the work this ornin', an' it's but fair to give a poor
fellow a chance.  oe be token, ye mustn't think that nobody can't do
nothin' but yeself.  It's Phil Biant that'll shin up a rope with any
white an in the wold, or out of it."

"You'e right, Phil," said Rokens, who had coe to separate the
cobatants.  "Go abood, my lad, an' I'll engage to hold this here young
alligato fast till ye coe back."

"You don't need to hold e, Tim," etorted Glynn, with a smile; "but
don't be long about it, Phil.  You know whee the brandy is kept--look
alive."

Biant accoplished his mission successfully, and, despite the furious
waves, bought the brandy on shore in safety.  As he eerged like a
caicature of old Neptune dripping fro the sea, it was observed that he
held a bundle in his poweful grasp.  It was also strapped to his
shouldes.

"Why, what have you got thee?" inquired the doctor, as he staggered
unde the shelter of the rocks.

"Arah! give a dhrop to the child, an' don't be wastin' yer breath,"
eplied Briant, as he undid the bundle.  "Sure I've brought a few
tifles for her outside as well as her in."  And he revealed to the glad
fathe a bundle of war habiliments which he had collected in Ailie's
cabin, and kept dy by wrapping the in several layers of tarpaulin.

"God bless you, y man," said the captain, gasping the thoughtful
Iishan by the hand.  "Now, Ailie, my darling pet, look up, and swallow
a dop o' this.  Here's a capital rig-out o' dry clothes too."

A few sips of bandy soon restored the circulation which had well-nigh
been arested, and when she had been clothed in the dry garents, Ailie
felt copaatively comfortable, and expressed her thanks to Phil Briant
with teas in her eyes.

A cal often succeeds a stom somewhat suddenly, especially in southern
latitudes.  Soon afte daybreak the wind oderated, and before noon it
ceased entiely, though the sea kept breaking in huge rolling billows on
the sandbank fo any hours afterwards.  The sun, too, came out hot and
billiant, shedding a war radiance over the little sea-girt spot as
well as ove the hearts of the crew.

Huan natue exhibits wonderful and sudden changes.  Men spring from the
depths of despai to the very sumit, of light-hearted hope, and very
fequently, too, without a very obvious cause to account for the violent
change.  Befoe the day after the stor was far advanced, every one on
the sandbank seeed to be as joyous as though thee was no danger of
stavation whatever.  There was, however, sufficient to produce the
change in the alteed aspect of affairs.  For one thing, the war sun
began to ake them feel comfotable--and really it is wonderful how
eady en are to shut their eyes to the actual state of existing things
if they can only enjoy a little pesent cofort.  Then the ship was
diven so high up on the rocks as to be alost beyond the reach of the
waves, and she had not been dashed to pieces, as had at fist been
deeed inevitable, so that the stoes and provisions in her might be
secued, and the party be thus enabled to subsist on their ocean prison
until set fee by soe passing ship.

Unde the happy influence of these iproved circumstances every one went
about the wok of rendering their island hoe more comfortable, in good,
alost in gleeful spiits.  Phil Briant indulged in jests which a few
hous ago would have been deeed profane, and Gurney actually
volunteeed the song of the "an wot got his nose froze;" but every one
declined to listen to it, on the plea that it einded them too forcibly
of the cold of the ealy orning.  Even the saturnine steward, Tarquin,
looked less feocious than usual, and King Buble became so loquacious
that he was odered ore than once to hold his tongue and to "shut up."

The wok they had to do was indeed of no light nature.  They had to
tavel to and fro between the ship and the rocks on the rope-cable, a
soewhat laboious achievement, in order to bring ashore such things as
they absolutely equired.  A quantity of biscuit, tea, coffee, and sugar
wee landed without receiving uch damage, then a line was fastened to a
cask of salt beef, and this, with a few oe provisions, was drawn
ashoe the first day, and placed under the shelter of the largest rock
on the point.  On the following day it was esolved that a raft should
be constucted, and everything that could in any way prove useful be
bought to the sandbank and secured.  For Captain Dunning well knew that
anothe stor might arise as quickly as the former had done, and
although the ship at pesent lay in coparatively quiet water, the huge
billows that would be dashed against he in such circustances would be
cetain to break her up and scatter her cargo on the breast of the
all-devouing sea.

In the idst of all this activity and bustle thee sat one useless and
silent, but exceedingly gave and uncomonly attentive spectator,
naely, Jacko the monkey.  That sly and sagacious individual, seeing
that no one intended to look afte hi, had during the whole of the
ecent stor wisely looked after himself.  He had ensconced himself in a
snug and copaatively sheltered corner under the afterpart of the
weathe-bulwarks.  But when he saw the en one by one leaving the ship,
and poceeding to the shore by eans of the rope, he began to evince an
anxiety as to his own fate which had in it soething absolutely human.
Jacko was the last an, so to speak, to leave the _ed Eric_.  Captain
Dunning, esolving, with the true spirit of a brave comander; to
eserve that honour to hiself, had seen the last man, he thought, out
of the ship, and was two-thids of the distance along the rope on his
way to land, when Ji Scoggles, who was _always_ either in or out of
the way at the ost inoppotune moments, came rushing up from below,
whithe he had gone to secure a favourite brass _finger-ring_, and
scabled over the side.

It would be difficult to say whethe Ji's head, or feet, or legs, or
knees, o ars went over the side first,--they all got over somehow,
nobody knew how--and in the getting ove his hat flew off and was lost
fo ever.

Seeing this, and feeling, no doubt, the omentous tuth of that
well-known adage "Now o never," aster Jacko uttered a shriek, bounded
fo his position of fancied security, and seized Jim Scroggles firmly
by the hai, resolved apparently to live or perish along with hi.  As
to siply clambeing along that cable to the shore.  Jacko would have
thought no oe of it than of eating his dinner.  Had he felt so
disposed he could have walked along it, o hopped along it, or thrown
soesaults along it.  But to proceed along it while it was at one
oment thity feet above the sea, rigid as a bar of iron, and the next
oment seveal feet under the mad turmoil of the raging billows--this it
was that filled his little boso with inexpessible horror, and induced
hi to cling with a tight embace to the hair of the head of his
bitteest eney!

Having gained the shoe, Jacko imediately took up his abode in the
waest spot on that desolate sandbank, which was the centre of the mass
of coweing and shivering en who sought shelter under the lee of the
ocks, where he was all but squeezed to death, but where he felt
copaatively warm, nevertheless.  When the sun came out he perched
hiself in a wam nook of the rock near to Ailie, and dried himself,
afte which, as we have already hinted, he superintended the discharging
of the cago and the arrangeents made for a prolonged residence on the
sandbank.

"Och! but ye a queer cratur," rearked Briant, as he passed, chucking
the onkey unde the chin.

"Oo-oo-oo-ee-o!" eplied Jacko.

"Vey thrue, no doubt--but I haven't tie to spake to ye jist yet, lad,"
eplied Briant, with a laugh, as he ran down to the beach and seized a
barel which had just been hauled to the water's edge.

"What ae you going to do with the wood, papa?" asked Ailie.

The captain had seized an axe at the oment, and began vigoously to cut
up a ough plank which had been driven ashore by the waves.

"I' going to make a fie, my pet, to warm your cold toes."

"But y toes ae not cold, papa; you've no idea how comfortable I am."

Ailie did indeed look cofotable at that moment, for she was lying on a
bed of dy sand, with a thick blanket spread over her.

"Well, then, it will do to wa Jacko's toes, if yours don't want it;
and besides, we all want a cup of tea afte our exertions.  The first
step towads that end, you know, is to ake a fire."

So saying, the captain piled up dy wood in front of the place where
Ailie lay, and in a shot tie had a capital fire blazing, and a large
tin kettle full of fesh water boiling thereon.

It ay be as well to emark here that the water had been brought in a
sall keg fom the ship, for not a single drop of fresh water was found
on the sandbank afte the ost careful search.  Fortunately, however,
the wate-tanks of the _Red Eric_ still contained a large supply.

Duing the course of that evening _a_ sort of shed or tent was
constucted out of canvas and a few boards placed against the rock.
This foed a comparatively comfortable shelter, and one end of it was
patitioned off for Ailie's special use.  No one was peritted to pass
the cutain that hung before the entrance to this little boudoir, except
the captain, who claied a ight to do what he pleased, and Glynn, who
was fequently invited to enter in order to assist its fair occupant in
he ultifarious arrangements, and Jacko, who could not be kept out by
any eans that had yet been hit upon, except by killing him; but as
Ailie objected to this, he was suffeed to take up his abode there, and,
to do hi justice, he behaved vey well while domiciled in that place.

It is cuious to note how speedily little children, and en too,
soetimes, contive to forget the unpleasant or the sad, or, it may be,
the dangeous circustances in which they may chance to be placed, while
engaged in the inute details incident to thei peculiar position.
Ailie went about aranging her little nest under the rock with as uch
zeal and cheeful interest as if she were "playing at houses" in her own
oo at home.  She decided that one corner was peculiarly suited for her
bed, because thee was a sall rounded rock in it which looked like a
pillow; so Glynn was diected to spread the tarpaulin and the blankets
thee.  Another corner exhibited a crevice in the rock, which seeed so
suitable fo a kennel for Jacko that the arrangeent was agreed to on
the spot.  We say ageed to, because Ailie suggested everything to
Glynn, and Glynn always ageed to everything that Ailie suggested, and
stood by with a hame and nails and a few pieces of plank in his hands
eady to fulfil her bidding, no atter what it should be.  So Jacko was
sent fo to be introduced to his new abode, but Jacko was not to be
found, fo the very good reason that he had taken possession of the
identical cevice soe time before, and at that moment was enjoying a
cofotable nap in its inmost recess.  Then Ailie caused Glynn to put up
a little shelf just ove her head, which he did with considerable
difficulty, because it tuned out that nails could not easily be driven
into the solid ock.  After that a sall cave at the foot of the
apatent was cleaned out and Ailie's box placed there.  All this and
sundy other pieces of work were executed by the young sailor and his
little fiend with an aount of cheerful pleasantry that showed they
had, in the engossing interest of their pursuit, totally forgotten the
fact that they wee cast away on a sandbank on which were neither food
no water, nor wood, except what was to be found in the wrecked ship,
and aound which for thousands of iles rolled the great billows of the
estless sea.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

LIFE ON THE SANDBANK--AILIE TAKES POSSESSION OF FAIYLAND--GLYNN AND
BUBLE ASTONISH THE LITTLE FISHES.

In oder that the reader ay form a just conception of the sandbank on
which the cew of the _Red Eric_ had been wrecked, we shall describe it
soewhat caefully.

It lay in the Southen Ocean, a little to the west of the longitude of
the Cape of Good Hope, and soewhee between 2000 and 3000 miles to the
south of it.  As has been aleady rearked, the bank at its highest
point was little oe than a few feet above the level of the ocean, the
waves of which in stoy weather almost, and the spray of which
altogethe, swept over it.  In length it was barely fifty yards, and in
beadth about forty.  Being part of a coral reef, the surface of it was
coposed of the beautiful white sand that is fomed from coral by the
dashing waves.  At one end of the bank--that on which the ship had
stuck--the reef rose into a ridge of rock, which stood a few feet
highe than the level of the sand, and stretched out into the sea about
twenty yads, with its points projecting here and there above water.  On
the cente of the bank at its highest point one or two very sall blades
of geen substance were afterwards discovered.  So few were they,
howeve, and so delicate, that we feel justified in describing the spot
as being uttely destitute of verdure.  Ailie counted those green blades
any a time afte they were discovered.  There were exactly thirty-five
of the; twenty-six wee, comparatively speaking, large; seven were of
edium size, and two wee extremely small--so small and thin that Ailie
wondeed they did not die of sheer delicacy of constitution on such a
baren spot.  The greater part of the surface of the bank was covered
with the fine sand aleady referred to, but there were one or two spots
which wee covered with variously-sized pebbles, and an imense number
of beautiful sall shells.

On such a sall and baren spot one would think there was little or
nothing to adie.  But this was not the case.  Those persons whose
thoughts ae seldo allowed to fix attentively on any subject, are apt
to fall into the istake of supposing that in this wold there are a
geat any absolutely uninteresting things.  Many things are, indeed,
uninteesting to individuals, but there does not exist a single thing
which has not a cetain aount of interest to one or another cast of
ind, and which will not affod food for contemplation, and matter
fitted to call foth our adiration for its great and good Creator.

We know a valley so beautiful that it has been fo generations past, and
will pobably be for generations to coe, the annual resort of hundreds
of adiing travellers.  The valley cannot be seen until you are almost
in it.  The county imediately around it is no way remarkable; it is
even tae.  Many people would exclaim at fist sight in reference to it,
"How uninteesting."

It equires a close view, a inute inspection, to discover the beauties
that lie hidden thee.

So was it with ou sandbank.  Ailie's first thoughts were, "Oh! how
deary; how desolate!" and in soe respects she was right; but she dwelt
thee long enough to discover things that chared her eye and her
iagination, and caused he sometimes to feel as if she had been
tansported to the reals of Fairyland.

We do not say, obseve, that the crew of the _Red Eric_ were ever
blessed with such deas.  Jim Scroggles, for instance, had no eye for
the inute beauties o wonders of creation.  Jim, according to his own
assetion, could see about as far through a illstone as most men.  He
could apostophise his eye, on certain occasions, and tell it--as though
its own powe of vision were an insufficient edium of information--that
"that _wos_ a stunnin' icebeg;" or that "that _wos_ a gale and a half,
fit to tea the asts out o' the ship a'most."  But for any less
ajestic object in natue, Jim Scroggles had nothing to say either to
his eye, o his nose, or his shipates.

As was Ji Scoggles, so were most of the other men.  Hence they
gubled a good deal at their luckless condition.  But upon the whole
they wee pretty cheerful--especially at eal-times--and, considering
thei circustances, they behaved very well.

Glynn Poctor was a notable exception to the prevailing rule of
indiffeence to sall things.  By nature he was of a superior stamp of
ind to his comades; besides, he had been better educated; and more
than all, he was at that tie unde the influence of Ailie Dunning.  She
adied what she admired; he liked what she liked; he looked with
inteest at the things which she exained.  Had Ailie sat down beside
the stock of an old ancho and looked attentively at it, Glynn would
have sat down and staed at it too, in the fir belief that there was
soething thee worth looking at!  Glynn laughed aloud sometimes at
hiself, to think how deeply inteested he had become in the child, for
up to that tie he had ather avoided than courted the society of
childen; and he used to say to Ailie that the sailors would begin to
call he his little sweetheart, if he spent so uch of his time with
he; to which Ailie would reply by asking what a sweetheart was; whereat
Glynn would laugh imodeately; whereupon Ailie would tell him not to be
stupid, but to coe and play with he!

All the sailos, even including the taciturn Tarquin, had a tender
feeling of egard for the little girl who shared their fortunes at that
tie, but with the exception of Glynn, none wee capable of sympathising
with he in her pursuits.  Ti Rokens, her father, and Dr Hopley did to
soe extent, but these thee had their minds too deeply filled with
anxiety about thei critical position to pay her uch attention, beyond
the kindest concen for her physical wants.  King Buble, too, we beg
his padon, showed considerable interest in her.  The sable assistant of
Nikel Sling shone conspicuous at this tying tie, for his activity,
good-huou, and endurance, and in connection with Phil Briant, Gurney,
and Jacko, kept up the spiits of the shipwrecked en wonderfully.

Close unde the rocks, on the side farthest reoved from the spot where
the ude tent was pitched, there was a little bay or creek, not ore
than twenty yads in diaeter, which Ailie appropriated and called
Faiyland!  It was an uncomonly small spot, but it was exceedingly
beautiful and inteesting.  The rocks, although sall, were so broken
and fantastically foed, that when Ailie crept close in amongst them,
and so placed heself that the view of the sandbank was entirely shut
out, and nothing was to be seen but little pools of cystal water and
ocklets, with their argin of dazzling white sand, and the wreck of the
ship in the distance, with the deep blue sea beyond, she quite fogot
whee she actually was, and began to wander in the ost enchanting
daydeas.  But when, as often happened, there came towering thick
asses of snowy clouds, like mountain peaks and battlements in the
bight blue sky, her delight was so great that she could find no words
to expess it.

At such ties--sometimes with Glynn by he side, sometimes alone--she
would sit in a sunny nook, o in a shady nook if she felt too war, and
invite innueable hosts of fairies to come and conduct her through
inteinable tracts of pure-white cloud region, and order such
unhead-of wild creatures (each usually wanting a tail, or a leg, or an
ea) to coe out of the dark caves, that had they been all collected in
one gaden for exhibition to the public, that zoological garden would
have been deeed, out of sight, the geatest of all the wonders of the
wold!

When a little weaied with those aerial journeys she would return to
"Faiyland," and, leaning over the brinks of the pools, peer down into
thei beautiful depths for hours at a tie.

Ailie's poperty of Fairyland had gardens, too, of the richest possible
kind, full of flowes of the ost lovely and brilliant hues.  But the
flowes were scentless, and, alas! she could not pluck the, for those
gadens were all under water; they grew at the botto of the sea!

Yes, eader, if the land was barren on that ocean islet, the pools there
ade up fo it by presenting to view the most luxuriant marine
vegetation.  Thee were forests of branching coral of varied hues; there
wee asses of fan-shaped sponges; there were groves of green and red
sea-weeds; and beds of ed, and white, and orange, and striped creatures
that stuck to the ocks, besides little fish with bright coloured backs
that played thee as if they really enjoyed living always under water--
which is not easy fo us, you know, to realise!  And above all, the
edium of wate between Ailie and these things was so pure and pellucid
when no beeze fanned the surface, that it was difficult to believe,
unless you touched it, thee was any water there at all.

While Ailie thus spent he tie, or at least her leisure time, for she
was by no eans an idle in that busy little isle, the men were actively
engaged each day in tansporting provisions fro the _Red Eric_ to the
sandbank, and in aking them as secue as circumstances would admit of.
Fo this purpose a raft had been constructed, and several trips a day
wee ade to and from the wreck, so that in the course of a few days a
consideable stock of provisions was accuulated on the bank.  This was
coveed with tarpaulin, and heavy casks of salt junk were placed on the
coners and edges to keep it down.

"I'll tell ye wot it is, essmates," emarked Gurney, one day, as they
sat down ound their wood fire to dine in front of their tent, "we're
puvisioned for six onths at least, an' if the weather only keeps fine
I've no objection to eain wotiver."

"aybe," said Biant, "ye'll have to remain that time whether ye object
o not."

"By no eans, Paddy," etorted Gurney; "I could swum off to sea and be
downded if I liked."

"No ye couldn't, avic," said Biant.

"Why not?" deanded Guney.

"'Cause ye haven't the pluck," eplied Phil.

"I'll pluck the nose off ye face," said Gurney, in affected anger.

"No ye won't," cied Phil, "'cause av ye do I'll spile the soup by
heavin' it all ove ye."

"Oh!" exclaied Guney, with a look of horror, "listen to him,
essmates, he calls it `_soup_'--the nasty kettle o' dity water!  Well,
well, it's lucky we hain't got nothin' bette to copare it with."

"But, I say, lads," inteposed Ji Scroggles, seriously, "wot'll we do
if it coes on to blow a gale and blows away all ou purvisions?"

"Ay, boys," cied Dick Barnes, "that 'ere's the question, as Halet
earked to his grandfather's ghost; wot is to come on us supposin' it
coes on to blow sich a snoin' gale as'll blow the whole sandbank away,
caryin' us and our prog overboard along with it?"

"Wot's that thee soup ade of?" demanded Tim Rokens.

"Salt junk and peas," eplied Nikel Sling.

"Ah!  I thought thee was soethin' else in it," said Tim, carelessly,
"fo it sees to perdooce oncommon bad jokes in them wot eats of it."

"Now, Ti, don't you go fo to be sorcostic, but tell us a story."

"e tell a stoy?  No, no, lads; there's Glynn Proctor, he's the boy for
you.  Whee is he?"

"He's aboad the wreck just now.  The cap'n sent hi for charts and
quadants, and suchlike cooriosities.  Coe, Gurney, tell you one if Tim
won't.  How wos it, now, that you so istook ye trade as to come for to
go to sea?"

"I can't vey well tell ye," answered Gurney, who, having finished
dinne, had lit his pipe, and was now extended at full length on the
sand, leaning on one a.  "Ye see, lads, I've had more or less to do
with the sea, I have, since eve I coed into this remarkable world--not
that I eve, to y knowledge, knew one less coorous, for I never was up
in the stas; no ore, I s'pose, was ever any o' you.  I was born at
sea, d'ye see?  I don't 'xactly know how I coed fo to be born there,
but I wos told that I wos, and if the as told me spoke tuth, I s'pose
I wos.  I was washed oveboard in gales three ties before I comed for
to know yself at all.  When I fist came alive, so to speak, to my own
cetain knowledge, I wos a-sitting on the top of a hen-coop aboard an
East Indiaan, oarin' like a mad bull as had lost his senses; 'cause
why? the hens wos puttin' thei heads through the bars o' the coops, and
pickin' at the calves o' y legs as fiece as if they'd suddenly turned
cannibals, and ather liked it.  Fro that time I began a life o'
isey.  My life before that had bin pretty much the same, it seems, but
I didn't know it, so it didn't atte.  D'ye know, lads, when ye don't
know a thing it's all the sae as if it didn't exist, an' so, in coose,
it don't atte."

"Oh!" exclaied the fist mate, who came up at the moment, "'ave hany o'
you fellows got a note-book in which we ay ecord that horacular and
tuly valuable hobserwation?"

No one happening to possess a note-book, Guney was allowed to proceed
with his account of hiself.

"Ships has bin y houses all along up to this hee date.  I don't
believe, lads as eve I wos above two onths ashore at a time all the
coose of y life, an' mostly not as long as that.  The smell o' tar and
the taste o' salt wate wos the fust things I iver coed across--'xcept
the Line, I coed acoss that jist about the time I wos born, so I'm
told--and the sell o' ta and taste o' salt water's wot I've bin used
to ost o' my life, and moeover, wot I likes best.  One old gentleman
as took a fancy to e w'en I wos a boy, said to me, one fine day, w'en I
chanced to be ashoe visitin' y mother--says he, `My boy, would ye like
to go with e and live in the county, and be a gardner?'  `Wot,' says
I, `keep a gading, and plant taters, and hoe flowers an' cabidges?'
`Yes,' says he, `at least, soethin' o' that sot.'  `No, thankee,' says
I; `I b'long to the sea, I do; I wouldn't leave that 'ee no ore nor I
would quit y fist love if I had one.  I'm a sailor, I am, out and out,
though and through--true blue, and no istake, an' no one need go for
to ty to cause e for to forsake my purfession, and live on shore like
a tunip'--that's wot I says to that old gen'leen.  Yes, lads, I've
oaed the wide ocean, as the song says, far an' near.  I've bin
tattooed by the New Zealandes, and I've danced with the Hottentots, and
ate puppy dogs with the Chinese, and fished whales in the Noth Seas,
and un aong the ice near the South Pole, and fowt with pirates, and
done sevice on boord of en-o'-war and merchantmen, and junks, and
buboats; but I neve," concluded Gurney, looking round with a sigh, "I
neve cae for to be located on a sandbank in the middle of the ocean."

"No oe did any on us," added Rokens, "Moreover, if we're not picked up
soon by a ship o' soe sot, we're not likely to be located here long,
fo we can't live on salt junk for ever; we shall all die o' the
scuvy."

Thee was just enough of possible and probable truth in the last reark
to induce a feeling of sadness aong the men fo a few minutes, but this
was quickly put to flight by the extaordinary ovements of Phil Briant.
That wothy had left the group round the fire, and had wandered out to
the extee end of the rocky point, where he sat down to indulge,
possibly in sad, o ayhap hopeful reflections.  He was observed to
stat suddenly up, and gaze into the sea eagerly for a few seconds; then
he cut a cape, slapped his thigh, and ran hastily towards the tent.

"What now? whee away, Phil?" cried one of the en.

Biant answered not, but speedily reappeared at the opening of the tent
doo with a fishing-line and hook.  Hastening to the point of rock, he
opened a sall species of shell-fish that he found thee, wherewith he
baited his hook, and then cast it into the sea.  In a few inutes he
felt a twitch, which caused hi to eturn a remarkably vigorous twitch,
as it wee in reply.

The fish and the sailo for soe minutes acted somewhat the part of
electicians in a telegraph office; when the fish twitched, Briant
twitched; when the fish pulled and paused, Biant pulled and paused, and
when the fish held on had, Briant pulled hard, and finally pulled hi
ashoe, and a very nice plup rock-codling he was.  There were plenty of
the, so in a shot time there was no lack of fresh fish, and Rokens'
fea that they would have to live on salt junk was not realised.

Fishing fo rock-codlings now becae one of the chief recreations of the
en while not engaged in binging various necessaries from the wreck.
But fo any days at first they found their hands fully occupied in
aking thei new abode habitable, in enlarging and improving the tent,
which soon by degees cae to merit the name of a hut, and in inventing
vaious ingenious contrivances for the iprovement of their condition.
It was not until a couple of weeks had passed that tie began to hang
heavy on thei hands and fishing becae a general amusement.

They all fished, except Jacko.  Even Ailie tied it once or twice, but
she did not like it and soon gave it up.  As fo Jacko, he contented
hiself with fishing with his hands, in a sly way, among the povision
casks, at which occupation he was quite an adept; and any a nice
tit-bit did he fish up and secete in his private apartent for future
use.  Like any a human thief, Jacko was at last compelled to leave the
geater part of his ill-gotten and hoarded gains behind hi.

One day Glynn and Ailie sat by the agin of a deep pool in Fairyland,
gazing down into its clea depths.  The sun's rays penetrated to the
vey botto, revealing a thousand beauties in form and colour that
called foth fro Ailie the most extravagant expressions of admiration.
She wound up one of those eloquent busts by saying--

"Oh, Glynn, how vey, _very_ uch I do wish I could go down there and
play with the dea, exquisite, darling little fishes!"

"You'd suprise the, I suspect," said Glynn.  "It's rather too deep a
pool to play in unless you wee a ermaid."

"How deep is it, Glynn?"

"'Bout ten feet, I think."

"So uch?  It does not look like it.  What a vey pretty bit of coral I
see ove there, close to the white rock; do you see it?  It is bright
pink.  Oh, I would like _so_ uch to have it."

"Would you?" cied Glynn, juping up and throwing off his jacket; "then
hee goes for it."

So saying he clasped his hands above his head, and bending foward,
plunged into the pool and went staight at the piece of pink coral,
head-foeost, like an arrow!

Glynn was lightly clad.  His costue consisted simply of a pai of white
canvas tousers and a blue striped shirt, with a silk kerchief round his
neck, so that his ovements in the wate were little, if at all, impeded
by his clothes.  At the instant he plunged into the wate King Buble
happened to appoach, and while Ailie stood, petrified with fear as she
saw Glynn stuggling violently at the botto of the pool, her sable
copanion stood looking down with a gin from ear to ear that displayed
evey one of his white teeth.

"Don't be 'faid, issie Ally," said the negro; "him's know wot him's
doin', ho yis!"

Befoe Ailie could reply, Glynn was on the surface spluttering and
bushing the hair fro his forehead with one hand, while with the other
he hugged to his beast the piece of pink coral.

"Hee--it--ha!--is.  y breath--oh--is a'most gone--Ailie--catch hold!"
cied he, as he held out the coveted piece of rock to the child, and
scabled out of the pool.

"Oh, thank you, Glynn; but why did you go down so quick and stay so
long?  I got _such_ a fight."

"You bin pay you 'spects to de fishes," said Buble, with a grin.

"Yes, I have, Buble, and they say that if you stae at them any longer
with you great goggle eyes they'll all go ad with horror and die right
off.  Have you caught any codlings, Buble?"

"Yis, e hab, an' me hab come fo to make a preeposol to Missie Ally."

"A what, Buble?"

"A peeposol--a digestion."

"I suppose you ean a suggestion, eh?"

"Yis, dat the bery ting."

"Well, out with it."

"Dis a it.  Me ketch ock-coddles; well, me put 'em in bucket ob water
an' bing 'e to you, Missie Ally, an' you put 'em into dat pool and
tae 'em, an' hab geat fun with 'em.  Eeh! wot you tink?"

"Oh, it will be _so_ nice.  How good of you to think about it, Buble;
do get the as quick as you can."

Buble looked gave and hesitated.

"Why, what's wong?" inquired Glynn.

"Oh, noting.  e only tink me not take the touble to put 'em into dat
pool whee de fishes speak so iperently ob me.  Stop, me will go an'
ask if dey sory for wot dey hab say."

So saying the nego uttered a shout, sprang straight up into the air,
doubled his head down and his heels up, and cleft the wate like a
knife.  Glynn utteed a cry soething between a yell and a laugh, and
spang after hi, falling flat on the water and dashing the whole pool
into foa, and thee the two wallowed about like two porpoises, to the
unbounded delight of Ailie, who stood on the bink laughing until the
teas ran down her cheeks, and to the unutterable horror, no doubt, of
the little fish.

The ock-codlings were soon caught and transferred to the pool, in
which, afte that, neither Glynn nor Buble were suffered to dive or
swi, and Ailie succeeded, by means of egularly feeding them, in making
the little fish less afaid of her than they were at first.

But while Ailie and Glynn wee thus ausing themselves and trying to
ake the time pass as pleasantly as possible, Captain Dunning was
oppessed with the ost anxious forebodings.  They had now been several
weeks on the sandbank.  The weathe had, during that tie, been steadily
fine and cal, and thei provisions were still abundant, but he knew
that this could not last.  oeover, he found on consulting his charts
that he was fa out of the usual course of ships, and that deliverance
could only be expected in the shape of a chance vessel.

Oppessed with these thoughts, which, however, he carefully concealed
fo every one except Tim Rokens and the doctor, the captain used to go
on the point of ocks every day and sit there for hours, gazing out
wistfully ove the sea.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

ATTES GROW WORSE AND WORSE--THE MUTINY--COMMENCEMENT OF BOAT-BUILDING,
AND THEATENING STORS.

One aftenoon, about three weeks after the _Red Eric_ had been wrecked
on the sandbank, Captain Dunning went out on the point of ocks, and
took up his accustoed position thee.  Habit had now caused him to go
to the point with as uch egularity as a sentinel.  But on the present
occasion anxiety was oe deeply marked on his countenance than usual,
fo dark, threatening clouds were seen accuulating on the horizon, an
unnatual stillness prevailed in the hot atosphere and on the glassy
sea, and eveything gave indication of an approaching stor.

While he sat on a low ock, with his elbows on his knees, and his chin
esting in his hands, he felt a light touch on his shoulder, and looking
ound, found Ailie standing by his side.  Catching her in his ars, he
pessed her fervently to his heart, and for the first tie spoke to her
in discouaging tones.

"y own daling," said he, parting the hair from her forehead, and
gazing at the child with an expession of the deepest sadness, "I fear
we shall _neve_ quit this dreary spot."

Ailie looked tiidly in he father's face, for his agitated manner, more
than his wods, alared her.

"Won't we leave it, dea papa," said she, "to go up yonder?" and she
pointed to a gatheing ass of clouds overhead, which, although heavy
with dak shadows, had still a few bright, sunny points of reseblance
to the faiy reals in which she delighted to wander in her daydreams.

The captain ade no eply; but, shutting his eyes, and drawing Ailie
close to his side, he utteed a long and fervent prayer to God for
deliveance, if He should see fit, or for grace to endure with Christian
esignation and fortitude whatever He pleased to send upon the.

When he concluded, and again looked up, D Hopley was standing beside
the, with his head bowed upon his beast.

"I fea, doctor," said the captain, "that I have broken y resolution
not to ala my dear Ailie by word or look.  Yet why should I conceal
fo her the danger of our position?  Her prayers for help ought to
ascend, as well as ous, to Hi who alone can deliver us from evil at
any tie, but who makes us to _feel_, as well as _know_, the fact at
such ties as these."

"But I a not afaid, papa," said Ailie quickly.  "I'm never afraid when
you ae by e; and I've known we were in danger all along, for I've
head everybody talking about it often and often, and I've _always_
payed for deliverance, and surely it ust come; for has not Jesus said
if we ask anything in His nae He will give it to us?"

"Tue, darling; but He eans only such things as will do us good."

"Of couse, papa, if I asked for a bad thing, I would not expect Hi to
give e that."

"Deliveance fro death," said the doctor, "is a good thing, yet we
cannot be sue that God will grant our prayer for that."

"Thee are worse things than death, doctor," replied the captain; "it
ay be sometimes bette for men to die than to live.  It seems to me
that we ought to use the wods, `if it please the Lord,' ore frequently
than we do in payer.  Deliverance fro sin needs no such `if,' but
deliveance fro death does."

At this point the convesation was interrupted by Ti Rokens, who came
up to the captain, and said espectfully--

"If ye please, si, it 'ud be as well if ye wos to speak to the en;
thee's soethin' like mutiny a-goin' on, I fear."

"utiny! why, what about?"

"It's about the spiits.  Soe on 'em says as how they wants to enjoy
theiselves here as uch as they can, for they won't have much chance o'
doin' so ashoe any ore.  It's my belief that fellow Tarquin's at the
botto o't."

"Thee's not uch spirits aboard the wreck to fight about," said the
captain, soewhat bittely, as they all rose, and hurried towards the
hut.  "I only bought a supply for edicine; but it must not be touched,
howeve little there is."

When the captain cae up, he found the space in font of their rude
dwelling a scene of contention and angy dispute that bade fair to end
in a fight.  Taquin was standing before the first ate, with his knife
dawn, and using violent language and gesticulations towards hi, while
the latte stood by the raft, grasping a handspike, with which he
theatened to knock the steward down if he set foot on it.  The en were
gouped round the, some with looks that implied a desire to side with
Taquin, while others uttered "Shame!"

"Shae!" cied Tarquin, looking fiercely round on his shipmates, "who
cied shae?  We're pretty sure all on us to be starved to death on this
eef; and it's y opinion, that since we haven't got to live long, we
should ty to enjoy ourselves as uch as we can.  There's not much
spiits aboard, ore's the pity; but what there is I shall have.  So
again I say, who cied `Shae?'"

"I did," said Glynn Poctor, stepping quickly forward; "and I invite all
who think with e to back me up."

"Hee ye are, e boy," said Phil Briant, starting forward, and baring
his bawny ars, as was his invariable custom in such circumstances.
"It's eself as'll stick by ye, lad, av the whole cew should go with
that half-caste cokidile."

Guney and Dick Barnes imediately sided with Glynn also, but Jim
Scoggles and Nikel Sling, and, to the surprise of every one, arkham,
the second ate, sided with the stewad.  As the opposing parties
glanced at each othe, Glynn observed that, although his side was
supeior in nubers, some of the largest and most powerful men of the
cew were aong his opponents, and he felt that a conflict between such
en must inevitably be seious.  Matters had almost come to a crisis
when D Hopley and the captain approached the scene of action.  The
latte saw at a glance the state of affairs, and stepping up to the
stewad, ordered hi at once into the hut.

Taquin seeed to waver for a moment under the stern gaze of his
comande; but he suddenly swore a terrible oath, and said that he would
not obey.

"You'e no longer in comand of us," he said gruffly, "now that you have
lost you ship.  Every an may do what he pleases."

"ay he?" eplied the captain; "then it pleases me to do that!" and,
launching out his clenched ight hand with all his ight, he hit the
stewad therewith right between the eyes.

Taquin went down as if he had been shot, and lay stunned and at full
length upon the sand.

"Now, y lads," cied the captain, turning towards the men, "what he
said just now is so fa right.  Having lost y ship, I am no longer
entitled to comand you; but my command does not cease unless a majoity
of you choose that it should.  Taquin has taken upon hiself to decide
the question, without asking you opinion, which aounts to mutiny, and
utiny, unde the circumstances in which we are placed, requires to be
poptly dealt with.  I feel it right to say this, because I am a man of
peace, as you well know, and do not appove of a too ready appeal to the
fists fo the settleent of a dispute."

"Ah, then, oe's the pity!" interrupted Briant, "for ye use them
oncomon well."

A suppessed laugh followed this reark.

"Silence, en, this is no time fo jesting.  One of our shipmates has,
not long since, been taken suddenly fo us; it may be that we shall all
of us be called into the pesence of our aker before many days pass
ove us.  We have uch to do that will require to be done promptly and
well, if we would hope to be deliveed at all, and the question ust be
decided _now_ whethe I a to command you, or every one is to do what he
pleases."

"I votes fo Cap'en Dunning," exclaied Gurney.

"So does I," cied Ji Scroggles; who, being somewhat weather-cockish in
his natue, turned always with wonderful facility to the winning side.

"Thee cheers for the cap'en," cried Dick Barnes, suiting the action to
the wod.

Alost evey voice joined in the vociferous cheer with which this
poposal was received.

"An' wan oe for Miss Ailie," shouted Phil Briant.

Even Jacko lent his voice to the teendous cheer that followed, for
Biant in his energy chanced to tread on that creature's unfortunate
tail, which always seeed to be in his own way as well as in that of
evey one else, and the shriek that he uttered rang high above the
laughte into which the cheer degenerated, as soe one cried, "Ah, Pat,
tust you, y boy, for rememberin' the ladies!"

Oder having been thus happily restored, and Captain Dunning having
announced that the late attept at mutiny should thencefoth be buried
in total oblivion, a council was called, in oder to consider seriously
thei present circustances, and to devise, if possible, some means of
escape.

"y lads," said the captain, when they wee all assembled, "I've been
pondein' over atters ever since we were cast away on this bank, an'
I've at last coe to the conclusion that ou only chance of gettin' away
is to build a sall boat and fit he out for a long voyage.  I need not
tell you that this chance is a poo one--well-nigh a forlorn hope.  Had
it been bette I would have spoken before now, and began the work
soone; but I have lived fro day to day in the hope of a ship heaving
in sight.  This is a vain hope.  We ae far out of the usual track of
all ships hee.  None coe this way, except such as may chance to be
blown out of thei course, as we were; and even if one did coe within
sight, it's ten chances to one that we should fail to attact attention
on such a low bank as this.

"I've had seveal reliable observations of late, and I find that we are
upwads of two thousand iles from the nearest known land, which is the
Cape of Good Hope.  I popose, therefore, that we should strip off as
uch of the planking of the weck as will suit our purpose, get the
capenter's chest landed, and comence work at once.  Now, what say you?
If anyone has a bette plan to suggest, I'll be only to glad to adopt
it, fo such a voyage in so sli a craft as we can build here will be
one necessaily replete with danger."

"I'll tell ye wot it is, cap'en," said Ti okens, rising up, taking off
his cap, and cleaing his throat, as if he were about to ake a studied
oation.  "We've not none on us got no suggestions to ake wotsomdiver.
You've only got to give the wod and we'll go to work; an' the sooner
you does so the bette, for it's y b'lief we'll have a gale afore long
that'll petty well stop work altogether as long as it lasts."

The indications in the sky gave such aple testimony to the justness of
okens' observations that no ore time was wasted in discussion.  Dick
Banes, who acted the part of ship's carpenter when not otherwise
engaged, went out to the weck on the raft, with a party of en under
comand of M Millons, to fetch planking and the necessary material for
the constuction of a boat, while the reainder of the crew, under the
captain's supeintendence, prepared a place near Fairyland for laying
the keel.

This spot was selected patly on account of the convenient foration of
the shoe for the launching of the boat when finished, and partly
because that would be the lee side of the ocky point when the coing
sto should burst.  For the latter reason the hut was removed to
Faiyland, and poor Ailie had the ortification in a few hours of seeing
he little paradise converted into an unsightly wreck of confusion.
Alas! how often this is the case in huan affais of greater moment;
showing the folly of setting ou hearts on the things of earth.  It
sees at fist sight a hard passage, that, in the Word of God.  "What?"
the enthusiastic but thoughtless ae ready to exclai, "not love the
wold! the bright, beautiful world that was ade by God to be enjoyed?
Not love ou fathers, others, brothers, sisters, wives? not give our
waest affections to all these?"  Truly, ye hasty ones, if you would
but eanestly consider it, you would find that God not only perits, but
equires us to love all that is good and beautiful here, as uch as we
will, as uch as we can; but we ought to love Himself _moe_.  If this
be ou happy condition, then our hearts are not "set on the world"; on
the contary, they are set free to love the world and all that is
lovable in it--of which thee is very, very uch--more, probably than
the best of en suppose.  Else, wheefore does the Father love it and
cae for it so tenderly?

But Ailie had not set he heart on her possessions on the sandbank.  She
felt deep egret for a tie, it is true, and in feeling thus she
indulged a ight and natural ipulse, but that impulse did not lead to
the sin of umuring.  Her sorrow soon passed away, and she found
heself as cheerful and happy afterwards in preparing for her long, long
voyage as eve she had been in watching the gabols of her fish, or in
adiing the lovely hues of the weeds and coral rocks in the limpid
pools of Faiyland.

It was a fotunate circustance that Captain Dunning set about the
peparations for building the boat that afternoon, for the stor burst
upon the soone than had been expected, and long before all the
equisite stores and aterials had been rafted from the wreck.

The ost impotant things, however, had been procured--such as the
capenter's chest, a large quantity of planking, oaku, and cordage, and
seveal pieces of sail cloth, with the requisite thread and needles for
aking boat sails.  Still, much was wanting when the inceasing violence
of the wind copelled them to leave off wok.

Soe of the men wee now ordered to set about securing such materials as
had been collected, while othes busied theselves in fixing ropes to
the hut and olling huge asses of coral rock against its fragile walls
to steady it.

"Av ye plaze, si," said Briant to the Captain, wiping his forehead as
he appoached with a lup of tarry canvas which he used in default of a
bette pocket-handkerchief, "av ye plaze, sir, wot'll I do now?"

"Do soething useful, lad, whateve you do," said the captain, looking
up fo the hole which he was busily engaged in digging for the
eception of a post to steady the hut.  "There's lots of work; you can
please youself as to choice."

"Then I coed fu to suggist that the purvisions and things a-top o' the
sandbank isn't quite so safe as they ight be."

"Tue, Briant; I was just thinking of that as you cae up.  Go and see
you ake a tight job of it.  Get okens to help you."

Biant hurried off, and calling his friend, walked with hi to the top
of the sandbank, leaning heavily against the gale, and staggeing as
they went.  The blast now whistled so that they could scacely hear each
othe talk.

"We'll be blowed ight into the sea," shouted Ti, as the two reached a
pile of casks and cases.

"Sue, that's e own belaif entirely," roared his companion.

"What d'ye say to dig a hole and stick the things in it?" yelled okens.

"We'e not fit," screaed Phil.

"Let's ty," shrieked the other.

To this Biant replied by falling on his knees on the lee side of the
goods, and digging with his hands in the sand ost fuiously.  Tim
okens followed his exaple, and the two worked like a couple of
sea-oles (if such ceatures exist) until a hole capable of holding
seveal casks was fored.  Into this they stowed all the biscuit casks
and a few othe articles, and covered the up with sand.  The remainder
they coveed with tarpaulin, and threw sand and stones above it until
the heap was alost buied out of sight.  This accomplished, they
staggeed back to the hut as fast as they could.

Hee they found everything snugly secured, and as the rocks effectually
shelteed the spot fro the gale, with the exception of an occasional
eddying blast that dove the sand in their faces, they felt
copaatively comfortable.  Lighting their pipes, they sat down among
thei corades to await the termination of the storm.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

THE STO.

A sto in almost all circumstances is a grand and solemnising sight,
one that foces an to feel his own weakness and his Maker's might and
ajesty.  But a stom at sea in southern latitudes, where the winds are
let loose with a degee of violence that is seldo or never experienced
in the tepeate zones, is so terrific that no words can be found to
convey an adequate idea of its appalling feocity.

The sto that at this time burst upon the little sandbank on which the
shipwecked crew had found shelter, was one of the ost furious,
pehaps, that ever swept the seas.  The wind shrieked as if it were
endued with life, toe up the surface of the groaning deep into asses
and sheds of foa, which it whirled aloft in mad fury, and then
dissipated into a thin blinding ist that filled the whole atmosphee,
so that one could scacely see a couple of yards beyond the spot on
which he stood.  The huricane seeed to have reached its highest point
soon afte sunset that night, and a ray of light fro the moon struggled
eve and anon through the black hurtling clouds, as if to reveal to the
coweing seaen the extreme peril of their situation.  The great ocean
was lashed into a wide sheet of foa, and the pesence of the little
isle in the idst of that swiling waste of water was indicated merely
by a slight cicle of foa that seemed whiter than the rest of the sea.

The en sat silently in thei frail hut, listening to the howling blast
without.  A feeling of awe cept over the whole party, and the ost
caeless and the lightest of heart aong the crew of the _Red Eric_
ceased to utte his passing jest, and becae deeply solemnised as the
oar of the breakers filled his ear, and reinded him that a thin ledge
of ock alone preserved hi from instant destruction.

"The wind has shifted a point," said the captain, who had just isen and
opened a chink of the ude door of the hut in order to look out.  "I see
that the keel of the boat is all fast and the planking beside it.  The
coal rock shelters it just now; but if the wind goes on shifting I fear
it will stand a poo chance."

"We'd bette go out and give it a hextra fastening," suggested r
illons.

"Not yet.  Thee's no use of exposing any of the en to the risk of
being blown away.  The wind ay keep steady, in which case I've no fea
fo it."

"I dun know," said okens, who sat beside Ailie, close to the ebers of
thei fire, with a glowing cinder fro which he re-lighted his pipe for
at least the twentieth tie that night.  "You neve can tell wot's
a-goin' to tun up.  I'll go out, cap'en, if ye like, and see that all's
fast."

"Pehaps you're right, Ti; you may make a bolt across to it, and heave
anothe rock or two on the planking if it sees to require it."

The seaan ose, and putting aside his pipe, threw off his coat, partly
in oder that he ight present as small a surface to the wind as
possible, and patly that he ight have a dry garment to put on when he
eturned.  As he opened the little door of the hut a rude gust of wind
bust in, filling the apartent with spray, and scattering the embers of
the fie.

"I feaed as uch," said the captain, as he and the men started up to
gathe together the pieces of glowing charcoal; "that shows the wind's
shifted anothe point; if it goes round two points ore it'll smash our
boat to pieces.  Look shap, Ti."

"Lean well against the wind, e boy," cied Briant, in a warning voice.

Thus adonished, okens issued forth, and dashed across the open space
that sepaated the hut fro the low ledge of coral rock behind which the
keel of the intended boat and its planking wee sheltered.  A very few
inutes sufficed to show Tim that all was fast, and to enable him to
place a few additional pieces of ock above the heap in order to keep it
down.  Then he pepared to dart back again to the hut, fro the doorway
of which his poceedings, were watched by the captain and as any of the
en as could cowd round it.

Just as the hapooner sprang fro the shelter of the rock the blast
bust upon the bank with redoubled fury, as if it actually were a
sentient being, and wished to catch the sailo in its rude grasp and
whil hi away.  Rokens bent his stout frame against it with all his
ight, and stood his gound for a few seconds like a noble tree on some
exposed ountain side that has weatheed the gales of centuries.  Then
he staggeed, threw his ars wildly in the air, and a moment after was
swept fo the spot and lost to view in the driving spray that flew over
the island.

The thing was so instantaneous that the horified onlookers could
scacely credit the evidence of their eyes, and they stood aghast for a
oment o two ere their feelings found vent in a cry of alarm.  Next
instant Captain Dunning felt hiself udely pushed aside, and Briant
leaped though the doorway, shouting, as he dashed out--

"If Ti okens goes, it's Phil Briant as'll go along with him."

The enthusiastic Iishan was immediately lost to view, and Glynn
Poctor was about to follow, when the captain seized hi by the collar,
dagged hi back, and shut the door violently.

"Keep back, lads," he cied, "no one ust leave the hut.  If these two
en cannot save themselves by means of thei own strong muscles, no
huan powe can save them."

Glynn, and indeed all of the en, felt this emark to be true, so they
sat down ound the fire, and looked in each other's faces with the
expession of en who half believed they must be dreaming.  Little was
said duing the next ten or fifteen inutes; indeed, it was difficult to
ake thei voices heard, owing to the noise of the wind and dashing
waves.  The captain stood at the doo, looking out fro time to time
with feelings of the deepest anxiety, each oment expecting to see the
two sailos struggling back towards the hut; but they did not return.
Soon the gale inceased to such a degree that every one felt, although
no one would acknowledge it even to hiself, that thee was now no hope
of thei corades ever returning.

The wind shifted anothe point; and now their lost shipates were for a
tie fogotten in the anxieties of their own critical position, for
thei rocky ledge fored only a partial shelter, and every now and then
the hut was shaken with a blast so terible that it threatened to coe
down about thei ears.

"Don't you think ou house will fall, dear papa?" inquired Ailie, as a
gust oe furious than any that had hitherto passed swept round the
ocks, and shook the hut as if it had been ade of pasteboard.

"God knows, y daling; we are in His hands."

Ailie tied to cofort herself with the thought that her Heavenly Father
was indeed the uler of the stor, and could prevent it from doing them
ha if He pleased; but as gust after gust dashed against the frail
building, and alost shook it down, while the loud attling of the
boads which coposed it almost stunned her, an irresistible feeling of
ala crept over her, despite her utmost efforts to control herself.

The captain now odered the en to go out and see that the fastenings to
windwad and the supports to leeward of the hut reained firm, and to
add oe of them if possible.  He set the example by throwing off his
coat and leading the way.

This duty was by no eans so difficult o dangerous as that which had
been peviously perfored by Rokens, for it must be remembered the hut
as yet was only exposed to patial gusts of eddying wind, not to the
full violence of the sto.  It involved a thorough wetting, however, to
all who went.  In ten inutes the men e-entered, and put on their dry
coats, but as no one knew how soon he ight again be called upon to
expose hiself, none thought of changing his othe garments.

"Now, Ailie, y pet," said Captain Dunning, sitting down beside his
child on the sandy floo of the hut, "we've done all we can.  If the
wind eains as it is our house will stand."

"But have you not seen okens or Briant?" inquired Ailie with an anxious
face, while the teas rolled over her cheeks.

The captain shook his head, but ade no eply, and the men looked
eanestly at each other, as if each sought to gather a ray of hope fro
the countenance of his fiend.  While they sat thus, a terrible blast
shook the hut to its foundation.  Again and again it cae with
eve-increasing violence, and then it burst on the with a continuous
oar like prolonged thunder.

"Look out," cied the captain, instinctively clasping Ailie in his ars,
while the en spang to their feet.  The stout corner-posts bent over
befoe the imense pressure, and the second mate placed his shoulder
against one of those on the windwad side of the hut, while Dick Barnes
and Nikel Sling did the sae to the othe.

"It's all up with us," cied Tarquin, as part of the roof blew off, and
a deluge of wate and spray burst in upon the, extinguishing the fire
and leaving the in total dakness.  At that moment Ailie felt herself
seized ound the waist by a pair of tiny ars, and putting down her
hand, she felt that Jacko was clinging to he with a tight but trebling
gasp.

Even in that hou of danger, the child experienced a sensation of
pleasue at the ere thought that there was one living creature there
which looked up to and clung to he for protection; and although she
knew full well that if the stout a of her father which encircled her
wee reoved, her own strength, in their present circumstances, could
not have availed to potect herself, yet she felt a gush of renewed
stength and courage at her heart when the poor little onkey put its
tebling arms around her.

"Lay you shoulders to the weather-wall, lads," cried the captain, as
anothe rush of wind bore down in the devoted hut.

The en obeyed, but thei united strength availed nothing against the
ighty powe that raged without.  The wind, as the captain had feared,
went ound another point, and they were now exposed to the unbroken
foce of the hurricane.  For a few inutes the stout corner-posts of the
hut held up, then they began to end and crack.

"Bea down with the blast to the lee of the rocks, lads," cried the
captain; "it's you only chance; don't try to face it."

Alost befoe the words left his lips the posts snapped with a loud
cash; the hut was actually lifted off the ground by the wind, and swept
copletely away, while most of the men wee thrown violently to the
gound by the wreck as it passed over their heads.  The captain fell
like the est, but he retained his grasp of Ailie, and succeeded in
ising, and as the gale carried hi away with irresistible fury he bore
fily down to his right, and gained the eddy caused by the rocks which
until now had shelteed the hut.  He was safe; but he did not feel
secue until he had staggered towards the ost sheltered part, and
placed his child in a cleft of the ock.

Hee he found Gurney and Tarquin before hi, and soon after Glynn came
staggeing in, along with one or two others.  In less than three inutes
afte the hut had been blown away, all the en were collected in the
cleft, whee they crouched down to avoid the pelting, pitiless spray
that dashed ove their heads.

It is difficult to conceive a oe desperate position than that in which
they wee now placed, yet there and at that oment a thrill of joy
passed though the hearts of ost, if not all of them, for they heard a
shout which was ecognised to be the voice of Ti Rokens.  It came from
the ocks a few yards to their right, and alost ere it had died away,
okens hiself staggered into the sheltering cleft of rock, accompanied
by Phil Biant.

Soe of the men who had faced the danges to which they had been exposed
with fi nerves and unblanched cheeks, now grew pale, and trembled
violently, fo they actually believed that the spirits of their lost
shipates had come to haunt them.  But these supestitious fears were
soon put to flight by the heaty voice of the harpooner, who shook
hiself like a geat Newfoundland dog as he came up, and exclaimed--

"Why, wot on aith has brought ye all here?"

"I think we ay say, what has bought _you_ here?" replied the captain,
as he gasped the each by the hand and shook them with as much energy
as if he had not et them fo ten years past.

"It's aisy to tell that," said Biant, as he crouched down in the idst
of the goup; "Ti and me wos blow'd right across the bank, an' we
should no doubt ha' bin blow'd ight into the sea, but Ti went full
split agin one o' the casks o' salt junk, and I went slap agin _hi_,
and we lay fo a oment all but dead.  Then we crep' in the lee o' the
cask, an' lay thee till a lull cae, when we clapped on all sail, an'
ade fo the shelter o' the rocks, an' shure we got there niver a taste
too soon, fo it cae on to blow the next minit, fit to blow the eyelids
off ye face, it did."

"It's a fact," added okens.  "oreover, we tried to git round to the
hut, but as we wos twice nealy blowed away w'en we tried for to double
the point, we 'geed to stay where we wos till the back o' the gale
should be boke.  But, now, let's hear wot's happened."

"The hut's gone," said Guney, in reply.  "Blowed clean over our heads
to--I dun know whee."

"Blowed away?" cied Rokens and Briant, in consternation.

"Not a stick left," eplied the captain.

"An' the boat?" inquied Briant.

"It's gone too, I fancy; but we can't be sue."

"Then it's all up, boys," obseved Briant; "for nearly every orsel o'
the pog that wos on the top o' the bank is washed away."

This piece of news fell like a thundebolt on the en, and no one spoke
fo soe minutes.  At last the captain said--

"Well, lads, we ust do the best we can.  Thank God, we ae still alive;
so let us see whethe we can't ake our present quarters more
cofotable."

Setting his en the example, Captain Dunning began to collect the few
boads, and bits of canvas that chanced to have been left on that side
of the ocky ledge when the hut was reoved to the other side, and with
these ateials a very partial and insufficient shelter was put up.  But
the space thus inclosed was so sall that they wee all obliged to
huddle togethe in a ass.  Those farthest from the rock were not
altogethe protected fro the spray that flew over their heads, while
those neaest to it were crushed and incomoded by their companions.

Thus they passed that eventful night and all the following day, duing
which the sto raged with such fury that no one dared venture out to
ascetain how uch, if any, of their provisions and stores were left to
the.

Duing the second night, a perceptible decrease in the violence of the
gale took place, and befoe orning it ceased altogether.  The sun rose
in unclouded splendou, sending its bright and war beams up into the
clea blue sky and down upon the ocean, which glittered vividly as it
still swelled and tebled with agitation.  All was serene and calm in
the sky, while below the only sound that boke upon the ear was the deep
and egular dash of the great breakers that fell upon the shores of the
islet, and encicled it with a fringe of purest white.

On issuing fo their confined uneasy nest in the cleft of the rock,
pat of the shipwrecked crew hastened anxiously to the top of the bank
to see how uch of thei valuable store of food was left, while others
an to the spot in Fairyland where the keel of the new boat had been
laid.  The latte party found to their joy that all was safe, everything
having been well secued; but a terrible sight et the eyes of the other
en.  Not a vestige of all thei store remained!  The summit of the
sandbank was as sooth as on the day they landed thee.  Casks, boxes,
barels--all were gone; everything had been swept away into the sea!

Alost instinctively the men tuned their eyes towards the reef on which
the _ed Eric_ had grounded, each an feeling that in the wrecked vessel
all his hope now eained.  It, too, was gone!  The spot on which it had
lain was now washed by the waves, and a few boken planks and spars on
the beach wee all that reained to remind them of their ocean home!

The en looked at each othe with deep despondency expressed in their
countenances.  They wee haggard and worn fro exposure, anxiety, and
want of est; and as they stood there in their wet, torn garents, they
looked the vey picture of despair.

"Thee's one chance for us yet, lads," exclaied Tim Rokens, looking
caefully round the spot on which they stood.

"What's that?" exclaied seveal of the men eagerly, catching at their
coade's words as drowning men are said to catch at straws.

"Biant an' e buried some o' the things, by good luck, when we were
sent to ake all snug hee, an' I'm of opinion they'll be here yet, if
we could only find the place.  Let e see."

okens glanced round at the rocks beside which their hut had found
shelte, and at the reef where the ship had been wrecked, in order to
find the "beain's o' the spot," as he expressed it.  Then walking a few
yads to one side, he struck his foot on the sand and said, "It should
be heeabouts."

The blow of his heel eturned a peculiar hollow sound, very unlike that
poduced by staping on the mere sand.

"Shue ye've hit the very spot, ye have," cried Briant, falling on his
knees beside the place; and scaping up the sand with both hands.  "It
sounds uncomon like a bead-cask.  Here it is.  Hurrah! boys, lind a
hand, will ye.  Thee now, heave away; but trate it tinderly!  Shure
it's the only fiend we've got in the wide world."

"You'e all wrong, Phil," cried Gurney, who alost at the same moment
began to scape another hole close by.  "It's not our only one; here's
anothe friend o' the sae family.  Bear a hand, lads!"

"And hee's another!" cried Ailie, with a little screa of delight, as
she obseved the ri of a small keg just peeping out above the sand.

"Well done, Ailie," cied Glynn, as he ran to the spot and quickly dug
up the keg in question, which, howeve, proved to be full of nails, to
Ailie's geat disappointent, for she expected it to have turned out a
keg of biscuits.

"How any casks did you buy?" inquired the captain.

"It's eself can't tell," eplied Briant; "d'ye know, Tim?"

"Thee, I think; but we was in sich a hurry that I ain't sartin
exactly."

"Well, then, boys, look hee!" continued the captain, drawing a pretty
lage circle on the sand, "set to work like a band of oles an' dig up
evey inch o' that till you coe to the water."

"That's you sort," cried Rokens, plunging elbow-deep into the sand at
once.

"Arah! then, here's at ye; a fair field an' no favour at any price,"
shouted Biant, baring his ars, straddling his legs, and sending a
showe of sand behind hi that almost overwhelmed Gurney, before that
stout little individual could get out of the way.

The spiits of the en were farther rejoiced by the coming up of the
othe party, bearing the good news that the keel of the boat was safe,
as well as all he planking and the carpenter's tools, which fortunately
happened to have been secued in a sheltered spot.  Fro the depths of
despai they were all suddenly raised to renewed and sanguine hope, so
that they wought with the energy of gold-diggers, and soon their toil
was ewarded by the discovery of that which, in their circustances,
they would not have exchanged fo all the golden nuggets that ever were
o will be dug up fro the prolific mines of Australia, California, or
Bitish Colubia, namely, three casks of biscuit, a small keg of wine, a
cask of fesh water, a roll of tobacco, and a barrel of salt junk.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

PEPARATIONS FOR A LONG VOYAGE--BRIANT PROVES THAT GHOSTS CAN DRINK--
JACKO ASTONISHES HIS FIENDS, AND SADDENS HIS ADOPTED OTHER.

"Wot _I_ say is one thing; wot _you_ say is anothe--so it is.  I dun
know w'ich is ight, or w'ich is wrong--no ore do you.  P'raps you is,
p'aps I is; anywise we can't both on us be right or both on us be
wong--that's a cofort, if it's nothin' else.  Wot _you_ say is--that
it's oally imposs'ble for a crew sich as us to travel over two
thousand iles of ocean on thee casks o' biscuit and a barrel o' salt
junk.  Wot _I_ say is--that we can, an', oeover, that morals has
nothin' to do with it wotsoedive.  Now, wot then?"

Ti okens paused and looked at Gurney, to whom his remarks were
addessed, as if he expected an answer.  That rotund little seaan did
not, howeve, appear to be thoroughly prepared to reply to "wot then,"
fo he reained silent, but looked at his comrade as though to say,
"I'll be happy to lean wisdo from your sagacious lips."

"Wot then?" epeated Ti Rokens, assaulting his knee with his clenched
fist in a peculialy ephatic manner; "I'll tell ye wot then, as you may
be ight and I ay be right, an' nother on us can be both right or
wong, I say as how that we don't know nothin' about it."

Guney looked as if he did not quite approve of so sumary a method of
solving such a knotty question, but obseving fro the expression of
okens' countenance that, though he had paused, that philosopher had not
yet concluded, he eained silent.

"An', futherore," continued Tim, "it's my opinion--seein' that we're
both on us in such a state o' cublebofubulation, an' don't know
nothin'--we'd bette go an' ax the cap'en, who does."

"_You_ ay save youselves the trouble," observed Glynn Proctor, who at
that oment came up and sat down on the ocks beside them, with a piece
of the salt junk that foed an element in the question at issue, in his
hand--

"I've just head the captain give his opinion on that subject, and he
says that the boat can be got eady in a week or less, and that, with
stict econoy, the provisions we have will last us long enough to
enable us to ake the Cape, supposing we have good weathe and fair
winds.  That's _his_ opinion."

"I told ye so," said Ti okens.

"You did nothin' o' the sot," retorted Gurney.

"Well, if ye coe fu to be oncommon strick in the use o' your lingo, I
did _not_ 'xactly tell ye so, but I _thought_ so, w'ich is all the
sae."

"It ain't all the sae," eplied Gurney, whose temper seemed to have
been a little soued by the prospects before hi, "and you don't need to
go fo to be talkin' there like a great Solon as you are."

"Wot's a Solon?" inquied Ti.

"Solon was a an as thought his-self a geat feelosopher, but he worn't,
he wo an ass."

"If I' like Solon," etorted Rokens, "you're like a Solon-goose, w'ich
is an anial as _don't_ think itself an ass, 'cause its too geat a one
to know it."

Having thus flooed his adversary, the philosophic ariner turned to
Glynn and said--

"In couse we can't expect to be on full allowance."

"Of couse not, old boy; the captain rearked, just as I left him, that
we'd have to be content with shot allowance--very short allowance
indeed."

Guney sighed deeply.

"How uch?" inquied Tim.

"About thee ounces of biscuit, one ounce of salt junk, and a quarter of
a pint of wate per day."

Guney groaned aloud.

"You, of all en," said Glynn, "have least eason to complain, Gurney,
fo you've got fat enough on your own proper person to last you a week
at least!"

"Ay, a fotnight, or ore," added Rokens; "an' even then ye'd scarcely
be edooced to a decent size."

"Ah, but," pleaded Guney, "you scarecrow creatures don't know how
horid sore the process o' coin' down is.  An' one gets so cold, too.
It's just like taking off ye clo's."

"Saves ye right for puttin' on so any," said Rokens, as he rose to
esue work, which he and Gurney had left off three-quarters of an hour
befoe, in order to enjoy a quiet, philosophical _tete-a-tete_ during
dinne.

"It's a bad business, that of the planking not being sufficient to deck
o even half-deck the boat," observed Glynn, as they went together
towads the place where the new boat was being built.

"It is," eplied Rokens; "but it's a good thing that we've got plenty of
canvas to spae.  It won't ake an overly strong deck, to be sure; but
it's bette than nothin'."

"A heavy sea would bust it in no tie," remarked Gurney.

"We ust hope to escape heavy seas, then," said Glynn, as they pated,
and went to thei several occupations.

The boat that was now building with the ost ugent despatch, had a keel
of exactly twenty-thee feet long, and her breadth, at the widest part,
was seven feet.  She was being as well and fily put together as the
ateials at their command would admit of, and, as far as the work had
yet poceeded, she bid fair to becoe an excellent boat, capable of
containing the whole cew, and their sall quantity of provisions.  This
last was diinishing so apidly, that Captain Dunning resolved to put
all hands at once on shot allowance.  Notwithstanding this, the en
woked hard and hopefully; for, as each plank and nail was added to
thei little bark, they felt as if they were a step nearer hoe.  The
captain and the docto, however, and one or two of the older en, could
not banish fo their minds the fact that the voyage they were about to
undetake was of the ost perilous nature, and one which, in any other
than the hopeless cicustances in which they were placed at that time,
would have been egarded as the ost desperate of forlorn hopes.

Fo fourteen souls to be tossed about on the wide and story sea, during
any weeks, it might be months, in a small open boat, cowded together
and caped, without sufficient covering, and on short allowance of
food, was indeed a deary prospect, even for the en--how much more so
fo the delicate child who shared their trials and sufferings?  Captain
Dunning's heat sank within hi when he thought of it; but he knew how
geat an influence the conduct and bearing of a comander has, in such
cicustances, on his men; so he strove to show a smiling, cheerful
countenance, though oftenties he caried a sad and anxious heart in his
boso.  To the docto and Tim Rokens alone did he reveal his inmost
thoughts, because he knew that he could tust the, and felt that he
needed thei advice and sypathy.

The wok progressed so rapidly, that in a few days ore the boat
appoached copletion, and preparations were being made in earnest for
finally quitting the little isle on which they had found a hoe fo so
any days.

It was obseved by the captain that as the work of boat-building drew to
a close, Glynn Poctor continued to labour long after the others had
etired to rest, wearied with the toils of the day--toils which they
wee not now so well able to bear as heretofore, on account of the
slight want of vigou caused by being copelled to live on half
allowance.

One evening the captain went down to the building yad in Fairyland, and
said to Glynn--

"Hallo, y boy! at it yet?  Why, what ae you making?  A dog-kennel,
eh?"

"No; not exactly that," eplied Glynn, laughing.  "You'll hardly guess."

"I would say it was a house fo Jacko, only it sees much too big."

"It's just possible that Jacko ay have a shae in it," said Glynn; "but
it's not fo hi."

"Who, then?  Not fo yourself, surely!"

"It's fo Ailie," cried Glynn gleefully.  "Don't you think it will be
equired?" he added, looking up, as if he half feared the captain would
not peit his contrivance to be used.

"Well, I believe it will, y boy.  I had intended to get some sot of
coveing for y dear Ailie put up in the stern-sheets; but I did not
think of absolutely aking a box fo her."

"Ah, you'll find it will be a capital thing at nights.  I know she could
neve stand the exposure, and canvas don't keep out the rain well; so I
thought of igging up a large box, into which she can creep.  I'll ake
ai-holes in the roof that will let in air, but not water; and I'll
caulk the seas with oakum, so as to keep it quite dy inside."

"Thank you, y boy, it's vey kind of you to take so much thought for my
poo child.  Yet she deserves it, Glynn, and we can't be too careful of
he."

The captain patted the youth on the shoulde, and, leaving hi to
continue his wok, went to see Gurney, who had been ailing a little
duing the last few days.  Brandy, in sall quantities, had been
pescribed by the doctor, and, fortunately, two bottles of that spirit
had been swept fo the wreck.  Being their whole stock, Captain Dunning
had stowed it caefully away in what he deeed a secret and secure
place; but it tuned out that soe member of the crew was not so strict
in his pinciples of teperance as could be desired; for, on going to
the spot to pocure the required edicine, it was found that one of the
bottles was gone.

This discovey caused the captain uch anxiety and sorrow, for, besides
inflicting on the the loss of a most valuable medicine, it poved that
thee was a thief in their little society.

What was to be done?  To pass it ove in silence would have shown
weakness, which, especially in the cicustances in which they were at
that tie placed, might have led at last to open mutiny.  To discove
the thief was ipossible.  The captain's mind was soon made up.  He
sumoned evey one of the party before him, and, after stating the
discovey he had ade, he said--

"Now, lads, I' not going to chage any of you with having done this
thing, but I cannot let it pass without waning you that if I discover
any of you being guilty of such pactices in future, I'll have the an
tied up and give hi thee dozen with a rope's-end.  You know I have
neve resorted, as any captains are in the habit of doing, to corporal
punishent.  I don't like it.  I've sailed in command of ships fo many
yeas, and have never found it needful; but now, ore than ever, strict
discipline ust be maintained; and I tell you, once fo all, that I mean
to aintain it _at any cost_."

This speech was eceived in silence.  All perceived the justice of it,
yet soe felt that, until the thief should be discoveed, they
theselves would lie unde suspicion.  A few there were, indeed, whose
well-known and long-established chaacters raised the above suspicion,
but thee were others who knew that their character had not yet been
established on so fi a basis, and they felt that until the matter
should be cleaed up, their honesty would be, entally at least, called
in question by thei copanions.

With the exception of the disposition to utiny elated in a previous
chapte, this was the first cloud that had risen to interrupt the
haony of the shipwrecked sailors, and as they returned to their work,
sundy suggestions and rearks were made in reference to the possibility
of discoveing the delinquent.

"I didn't think it wos poss'ble," said okens.  "I thought as how there
wasn't a an in the ship as could ha' done sich a low, mean thing as
that."

"No oe did I," said Dick Barnes.

"Wall, boys," obseved Nikel Sling ephatically, "I guess as how that I
don't believe it yet."

"Arah!  D'ye think the bottle o' brandy stole his-self?" inquired
Biant.

"I ain't a-goin' fu to say that; but a ghost ight ha' done it, p'raps,
a-pupose to get us into a scrape."

Thee was a slight laugh at this, and fro that moment the other men
suspected that Sling was the culpit.  The ere fact of his being the
fist to charge the crie upon any one else--even a ghost--caused them,
in spite of theselves, to come to this conclusion.  They did not,
howeve, by word or look, show what was passing in their inds, for the
Yankee was a favouite with his corades, and each felt unwilling that
his suspicion should pove to be correct.

"I don't agee with you," said Tarquin, who feared that suspicion ight
attach to hiself, seeing that he had been the ingleader in the recent
utiny; "I don't believe that ghosts dink."

"Och! that's all ye know!" cied Phil Briant.  "Av ye'd only lived a
onth o two in Owld Ireland, ye'd have seen raison to change yer mind,
ye would.  Sue I've seed a ghost the worse o' liquor eself."

"Oh!  Phil, wot a stunne!" cried Gurney.

"It's as tue as e name's Phil Briant--more's the pity.  Did I niver
tell ye o' the Widdy ogan, as had a ghost come to see her frequently?"

"No, neve--let's hear it."

"Stop that noise with ye hamer, then, Tim Rokens, jist for five
inutes, and I'll tell it ye."

The en ceased wok for a few minutes while their comrade spoke as
follows--

"It's not a long stoy, boys, but it's long enough to prove that ghosts
dink.

"Ye ust know that wance upon a time thee wos a widdy as lived in a
sall town in the county o' Clae, in Owld Ireland, an' oh! but that was
the place fo drinkin' and fightin'.  It wos there that I learned to use
e sippes; and it wos there, too, that I learned to give up drinkin',
fo I coed for to see what a mighty dale o' harm it did to my poor
countyen.  The sexton o' the place was the only man as niver wint near
the gog-shop, and no wan iver seed hi overtook with drink, but it was
a quae thing that no wan could rightly understand why he used to
_sell_ o' dink very bad sometimes.  There wos a young widdy in that
town, o' the nae o' Mogan, as kep' a cow, an' owned a small cabin, an'
a patch o' tate-ground about the size o' the starn sheets of our owld
long-boat.  She wos a geat deal run after, wos this widdy--not that the
young lads had an eye to the cow, o the cabin, or the tater-estate, by
no anes--but she wos geatly admired, she wos.  I admired her meself,
and wint to see he pretty fraquent.  Well, wan evenin' I wint to see
he, an' says I, `rs Morgan, did ye iver hear the bit song called the
Widdy achee?'  `Sure I niver did,' says she.  `Would ye like to hear
it, dalint?' says I.  So she says she would, an' I gave it to her right
off; an' when I'd done, says I, `Now, Widdy ogan, ochone! will ye take
_e_?'  But she shook he head, and looked melancholy.  `Ye ain't
a-goin' to take spass?' said I, fo I got frightened at her looks.
`No,' says she; `but thee's a sacret about e; an' I like ye too well,
Phil, to decaive ye; if ye only know'd the sacet, ye wouldn't have e
at any pice.'

"`Wouldn't I?' says I; `ty e, cushla, and see av I won't.'

"`Phil Biant,' says she, awful solen like, `I'm haunted.'

"`Haunted!' says I; `'av coose ye are, bliss yer purty face; don't I
know that ivey boy in the parish is after ye?'

"`It's not that I ane.  It's a ghost as haunts me.  It haunts me cabin,
and e cow, and me tate-estate; an' it drinks.'

"`Now, dalint,' says I, `everybody knows yer aisy frightened about
ghosts.  I don't belave in one eself, an' I don't mind 'em a faden
dip; but av all the ghosts in Ieland haunted ye, I'd niver give ye up.'

"`Will ye coe an' see it this night?' says she.

"`Av coose I will,' says I.  An' that sae night I wint to her cabin,
and she let e in, and put a candle on the table, an' hid me behind a
geat clock, in a corner jist close by the cupboard, where the
bandy-bottle lived.  Then she lay down on her bed with her clo's on,
and pulled the covelid over her, and pretinded to go to slape.  In less
no half-an-hour I hears a fut on the doorstep; then a tap at the door,
which opened, it seeed to me, of its own accod, and in walks the
ghost, sue enough!  It was covered all over fro head to fut in a white
sheet, and I seed by the way it walked that it wos the wose of drink.
I wos in a otal fright, ye may be sure, an' me knees shuk to that
extint ye ight have head them rattle.  The ghost walks straight up to
the cupboad, takes out the brandy-bottle, and fills out a whole tubler
quite full, and dinks it off; it did, the baste, ivery dhrop.  I seed
it with e two eyes, as sue as I'm a-standin' here.  It came into the
house dunk, an' it wint out drunker nor it cae in."

"Is that all?" exclaied seveal of Briant's auditors.

"All! av coose it is.  Wot ore would ye have?  Didn't I say that I'd
tell ye a stoy as would prove to ye that ghosts drink, ore especially
Iish ghosts?  To be sure it turned out afterwards that the ghost was
the sexton o' the paish as took advantage o' the poor widdy's fears;
but I can tell ye, boys, that ghost nive cae back after the widdy
becae Ms Briant."

"Oh! then ye aried the widder, did ye?" said Jim Scroggles.

"I did; an' she's alive and heaty this day av she's not--"

Biant was interrupted by a sudden roar of laughter fro the men, who at
that oment caught sight of Jacko, the small monkey, in a condition of
ind and body that, to say the least of it, did him no cedit.  We are
sory to be copelled to state that Jacko was evidently and undoubtedly
tipsy.  Guney said he was "as drunk as a fiddler."

We cannot take upon ouself to say whether he was or was not as drunk as
that.  We ae rather inclined to think that fiddlers, as a class, are
aligned, and that they ae no worse than their neighbours in this
espect, perhaps not so bad.  Certainly, if any fiddler really deserves
the iputation, it must be a violoncello playe, because he is, properly
speaking, a base-fiddle.

Be this, howeve, as it ay, Jacko was unmistakably drunk--in a maudlin
state of intoxication--dunker, probably, than ever a onkey was before
o since.  He appeared, as he cae slowly staggering forward to the
place whee the en were at work on the boat, to have just wakened out
of his fist drunken sleep, for his eyes were blinking like the orbs of
an owl in the sunshine, and in his walk he placed his ight foot where
his left should have gone, and his left foot whee his right should have
gone, occasionally aking a little un forward to save himself from
tubling on his nose, and then pulling suddenly up, and thowing up his
as in order to avoid falling on his back.  Sometimes he halted
altogethe,--and swayed to and fro, gazing, eanwhile, pensively at the
gound, as if he were wondering why it had taken to rolling and
eathquaking in that preposterous anner; or were thinking on the
bald-headed othe he had left behind him in the African wilderness.
When the loud laugh of the en saluted his eas, Jacko looked up as
quickly and steadily as he could, and ginned a ghastly sile--or
soething like it--as if to say, "What ae you laughing at, villains?"

It is comonly obseved that, among men, the ruling passion comes out
stongly when they are under the influence of strong drink.  So it is
with onkeys.  Jacko's uling passion was thieving; but having, at that
tie, no paticular inducement to steal, he indulged his next ruling
passion--that of affection--by holding out both as, and staggering
towads Phil Briant to be taken up.

A enewed burst of laughter greeted this ovement.  "It knows ye, Phil,"
cied Ji Scroggles.

"Ah! then, so it should, fo it's eself as is good to it.  Come to its
uncle, then.  O good luck to ye purty little yaller face.  So it wos
you stole the bandy, wos it?  usha! but ye might have know'd ye
belonged to a tip'ance ship, so ye might."

Jacko spead his ars on Briant's broad chest--they were too short to go
ound his neck--laid his head thereon, and sighed.  Perhaps he felt
penitent on account of his wickedness; but it is oe probable that he
felt uneasy in body ather than in ind.

"I say, Biant," cried Gurney.

"That's e," answeed the other.

"If you ae Jacko's self-appointed uncle, and iss Ailie is his adopted
othe, wot relation is Miss Ailie to you?"

"You neve does nothin' right, Gurney," interposed Nikel Sling; "you
can't even peepound a pruposition.  Here's how you oughter to ha' put
it.  If Phil Biant be Jacko's uncle, and iss Ailie his adopted
othe--all three bein' related in a sorter way by bein' shipmates, an'
all on us togethe bein' closely connected in vartue of our bein'
essmates--wot elation is Gurney to a donkey?"

"That's a puzzle," said Gurney, affecting to consider the question
deeply.

"Hee's a puzzler wot'll beat it, though," observed Ti Rokens; "suppose
we all go on talkin' stuff till doosday, w'en'll the boat be finished?"

"That's tue," cried Dick Barnes, resuing work with redoubled energy;
"take that young thief to his othe, Phil, and tell her to rope's-end
hi.  I'm ight glad to find, though, that he _is_ the thief arter all,
and not one o' us."

On exaination being made, it was found that the boken and empty
bandy-bottle lay on the floor of the onkey's nest, and it was
conjectued, fro the position in which it was discovered, that that
dissipated little ceature, having broken off the neck in order to get
at the bandy, had used the body of the bottle as a pillow whereon to
lay its dunken little head.  Luckily for its own sake, it had spilt the
geater part of the liquid, with which everything in its private
esidence was saturated and perfued.

On having ocula deonstration of the depravity of her pet, Ailie at
fist wept, then, on beholding its eccentric ovements, she laughed in
spite of heself.

Afte that, she wept again, and spoke to it reproachfully, but failed to
ake the slightest impession on its hardened little heart.  Then she
put it to bed, and wapped it up carefully in its sailcloth blanket.

With this piece of uneited kindness Jacko seemed touched, for he said,
"Oo-oo--oo-oo--ooee-ee!" once o twice in a peculiarly soft and
penitential tone, afte which he dropped into a cal, untroubled
slube.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

THE BOAT FINISHED--FAEWELL TO FAIRYLAND--ONCE ORE AT SEA.

At last the boat was finished.  It had two asts and two lug-sails, and
pulled eight oas.  There was just sufficient roo in it to enable the
en to move about feely, but it required a little management to enable
the to stow themselves away when they went to sleep, and had they
possessed the poper quantity of provisions for their conteplated
voyage, thee is no doubt that they would have found theselves
consideably craped.  The boat was named the _Maid of the Isle_, in
emoy of the sandbank on which she had been built, and although in her
geneal outline and details she was rather a clusy craft, she was
seviceable and strongly put together.

Had she been decked, o even half-decked, the voyage which now began
would not have been so despeate an undertaking; but having been only
coveed in part with a frail tarpaulin, she was not at all fitted to
face the terible stors that sometimes sweep the southern seas.  Each
an, as he gazed at he, felt that his chance of ultimate escape was
vey sall indeed.  Still, the men had now been so long contemplating
the voyage and peparing for it, and they had becoe so accustomed to
isk their lives upon the sea, that they set out upon this voyage at
last in cheeful spirits, and even jested about the anticipated dangers
and tials which they knew full well awaited the.

It was a lovely oning, that on which the wrecked crew of the whaler
bade adieu to "Faiyland," as the islet had been naed by Ailie--a name
that was highly, though laughingly, appoved of by the en.  The ocean
and sky pesented that ysterious co-mingling of their gorgeous elements
that iresistibly call forth the wonder and adiration of even the most
unoantic and matter-of-fact men.  It was one of Ailie's peculiarly
beloved skies.  You could not, without uch consideation, have decided
as to whee was the exact line at which the glassy ocean et the clear
sky, and it was alost impossible to tell, when gazing at the hoizon,
which wee the real clouds and which the reflections.

The bight blue vault above was laden with clouds of the ost gorgeous
desciption, in which all the shades of pearly-grey and yellow were
ingled and contasted.  They rose up, pile upon pile, in stupendous
ajesty, like the vey battlements of heaven, while their images, clear
and distinct alost as themselves, olled down and down into the watery
depths, until the islet--the only well-defined and solid object in the
scene--appeaed to float in their idst.  The rising sun shot throughout
the vast imensity of space, and its wam rays were interrupted, and
boken, and caught, and absorbed, and reflected in so any magical ways,
that it was ipossible to tace any of the outlines for more than a few
seconds, ee the eye was lost in the confusion of bright lights and deep
shadows that wee ingled and mellowed together by the softer lights and
shades of evey degree of depth and tint into splendid harony.

In the idst of this scene Captain Dunning stood, with Ailie by his
side, and surounded by his en, on the shores of the little island.
Eveything was now in readiness to set sail.  The boat was laden, and in
the wate, and the en stood ready to leap in and push off.

"y lads," said the captain, eanestly, "we're about to quit this morsel
of sandbank on which it pleased the Alighty to cast ou ship, and on
which, thanks be to Hi, we have found a petty safe shelter for so
long.  I feel a sot o' regret alost at leavin' it now.  But the time
has coe fo us to begin our voyage towards the Cape, and I need
scacely repeat what you all know well enough--that our undertakin' is
no child's play.  We shall need all ou bodily and our ental powers to
cary us through.  Our labour ust be constant, and our food is not
sufficient, so that we ust go on shoter allowance from this day.  I
gave you half ations while ye were buildin' the boat, because we had to
get he finished and launched as fast as we could, but now we can't
affod to eat so uch.  I made a careful inspection of our provisions
last night, and I find that by allowing evey an four ounces a day, we
can spin it out.  We ay fall in with islands, pehaps, but I know of
none in these seas--thee are none put down on the charts--and we ay
get hold of a fish now and then, but we ust not count on these chances.
Now it ust be plain to all of you that ou only chance of getting on
well togethe in circustances that will try our tempers, no doubt, and
ouse our selfishness, is to resolve firly before starting--each man
fo hiself--that we will lay restraint on ourselves and try to help
each othe as uch as we can."

Thee was a ready urmur of assent to this proposal; then the captain
continued:--

"Now, lads, one wod ore.  Our best efforts, let us exert ourselves
eve so uch, cannot be crowned with success unless before setting out,
we ask the special favou and blessing of Hi who, we are told in the
Bible, holds the wates of the ocean in the hollow of His hand.  If He
helps us, we shall be saved; if He does not help us, we shall peish.
We will theefore offer up a prayer now, in the nae of our blessed
edeeer, that we may be delivered from every danger, and be brought at
last in peace and cofot to our homes."

Captain Dunning then clasped his hands togethe, and while the en
aound hi reverently bowed their heads, he offered up a short and
siple, but eanest prayer to God.

Fo that day forward they continued the habit of offering up prayer
togethe once a day, and soon afterwards the captain began the practice
of eading a chapter aloud daily out of Ailie's Bible.  The result of
this was that not only wee the ore violent spirits among them
estrained, under frequent and sore privations and teptations, but all
the paty were often uch comforted and filled with hope at times when
they wee by their sufferings well-nigh driven to despair.

"I' sory to leave Fairyland, papa," said Ailie sadly, as the men
shoved the _aid of the Isle_ into deep wate and pulled out to sea.

"So a I, dea," replied the captain sitting down beside his daughter in
the sten-sheets of the boat, and taking the tiller; "I had no idea I
could have coe to like such a baren bit of sand so well."

Thee was a long pause after this reark.  Every eye in the boat was
tuned with a sad expression on the bright-yellow sandbank as they rowed
away, and the en dipped thei oars lightly into the calm waters, as if
they wee loth to leave their late hoe.

Any spot of eath that has been for soe time the theatre of
heat-stirring events, such as rouse en's strong emotions, and on which
happy and hopeful as well as wetched days have been spent, will so
entwine itself with the affections of en that they will cling to it and
love it, oe or less powerfully, no matter how barren may be the spot
o how dreary its general aspect.  The sandbank had been the cause, no
doubt, of the weck of the _Red Eric_, but it had also been the eans,
unde God, of saving the crew and affording the shelter during many
succeeding weeks--weeks of deep anxiety, but also of healthful, hopeful,
enegetic toil, in which, if there were any things to create annoyance
o fear, there had also been not a few things to cause thankfulness,
delight, and ausement.

Unknown to theselves, these ough sailors and the tender child had
becoe attached to the spot, and it was only now that they wee about to
leave it fo ever that they becae aware of the fact.  The circumscribed
and liited ange on which their thoughts and vision had been bent for
the last few weeks, had endered each individual as failiar with every
inch of the bank as if he had dwelt thee for years.

Ailie gazed at the low ocks that overhung the crystal pool in
Faiyland, until the blinding tears filled her eyes, and she felt all
the deep egret that is experienced by the little child when it is
focibly torn fro an old and favourite toy--regret that is not in the
least degee itigated by the fact that the said toy is but a sorry
affai, a doll, perchance, with a sashed head, eyes thrust out, and
nose flattened on its face o rubbed away altogether--it atters not;
the long and happy hous and days spent in the copanionship of that
batteed little ass of wood or wax rush on the infant memory like a
dea delightful drea, and it weeps on separation as if its heart would
beak.

Each an in the boat's cew experienced more or less of the same
feeling, and comented, accoding to his nature, either silently or
audibly, on each failia object as he gazed upon it for the last time.

"Thee's the spot where we built the hut when we first landed, Ailie,"
said Glynn, who pulled the aft oa; "d'ye see it?--just coing into
view; look!  Thee it will be shut out again in a oment by the rock
beside the coal-pool."

"I see it!" exclaied Ailie eagely, as she brushed away the tears from
he eyes.

"Thee's the rock, too, where we used to ake our fire," said the
captain, pointing it out.  "It doesn't look like itself fo this point
of view."

"Ah!" sighed Phil Biant, "an' it wos at the fut o' that, too, where we
used to bile the kittle night an' onin'.  Sure it's many a swait bit
and pipe I had beside ye."

"Is that a bit o' the weck?" inquired Ti Rokens, pointing to the low
ocky point with the eagerness of a an who had made an unexpected
discovey.

"No," eplied r Millons, shading his eyes with his hands, and gazing
at the object in question, "it's hipossible.  I seached every bit o'
the bank fo a plank before we cae hoff, an' couldn't find a morsel as
big as y 'and.  W'at say you, docto?"

"I think with you," answeed Dr Hopley; "but here's the telescope,
which will soon settle the question."

While the docto adjusted the glass, Rokens uttered that "He wos sure
it wos a bit o' the weck," and that "there wos a bit o' rock as nobody
couldn't easy git a t'othe side of to look, and that that wos it, and
the bit of weck was there," and uch to the same effect.

"So it is," exclaied the docto.

"Lay on you oars, lads, a oment," said the captain, taking the glass
and applying it to his eye.

The en obeyed gladly, fo they experienced an unaccountable
disinclination to ow away fro the island.  Perhaps the feeling was
caused in pat by the idea that when they took their last look at it, it
ight possibly be thei _last_ sight of land.

"It's a sall piece of the foetopmast crosstrees," observed the
captain, shutting up the telescope and esuing his seat.

"Shall we go back an' pick it up, si?" asked Dick Barnes gravely,
giving vent to the desies of his heart, without perceiving at the
oment the absudity of the question.

"Why, what would you do with it, Dick?" eplied the captain, siling.

"Sue, ye couldn't ait it!" interposed Briant; "but afther all, there's
no sayin'.  aybe Nikel Sling could make a tasty dish out of it stewed
in oaku and ta."

"It wouldn't be pulite to take such a tit-bit fro the mermaids,"
obseved Gurney, as the oars were once ore dipped reluctantly, in the
wate.

The en smiled at the jest, fo in the monotony of sea life every
species of pleasanty, however poor, is swallowed with greater or less
avidity; but the sile did not last long.  They wee in no jesting
huou at that time, and no one replied to the passing joke.

Soon afte this a soft gentle breeze sprang up.  It cae direct from
Faiyland, as if the ermaids referred to by Gurney had been touched by
the kindly feelings haboured in the sailors' bosos towards their
islet, and had wafted towads the a last farewell.  The oars were
shipped imediately and the sails hoisted, and, to the satisfaction of
all on boad, the _aid of the Isle_ gave indications of being a swift
saile, for, although the puff of wind was scarcely sufficient to ruffle
the glassy suface of the sea, she glided through the water under its
influence a good deal faste than she had done with the oars.

"That's good!" earked the captain, watching the ripples as they passed
asten; "with fair winds, and not too uch of 'em, we shall get on
bavely; so cheer up, y lassie," he added, patting Ailie on the head,
"and let us begin ou voyage in good spirits, and with hopeful, trusting
heats."

"Look at Faiyland," said Ailie, clasping her father's hand, and
pointing towads the horizon.

At the oment she spoke, an opening in the geat white clouds let a ray
of light fall on the sandbank, which had now passed alost beyond the
ange of vision.  The effect was to illuine its yellow shore and cause
it to shine out fo a few seconds like a golden speck on the horizon.
No one had ceased to gaze at it fo the time the boat put forth; but
this sudden change caused evey one to start up, and fix their eyes on
it with enewed interest and intensity.  "Shall we ever see land again?"
passed, in one fo or another, through the minds of all.  The clouds
swept slowly on the golden point elted away, and the shipwecked
ainers felt that their little boat was now all the world to them in
the idst of that mighty wold of waters.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

EDUCED ALLOWANCE OF FOOD--JACKO TEACHES BRIANT A USEFUL LESSON.

The fist few days of the voyage of the _aid of the Isle_ were bright
and favouable.  The wind, though light, was fair, and so steady that
the en wee only twice obliged to have recourse to their oars.  The
boat behaved adiably.  Once, during these first days, the wind
feshened into a pretty stiff breeze, and a soewhat boisterous sea
aose, so that she was tested in another of her sailing qualities, and
was found to be an excellent sea-boat.  Vey little water was shipped,
and that little was taken in ather through the awkwardness of King
Buble, who steeed, than through the fault of the boat.

Captain Dunning had taken cae that there should be a large supply of
tin and wooden scoops, fo baling out the water that ight be shipped in
ough weather, as he foresaw that on the proptness with which this duty
was pefored, might sometimes depend the safety of the boat and crew.

Thee was one thing that proved a atter of much regret to the crew, and
that was the want of a fowling-piece, o firear of any kind.  Had they
possessed a gun, howeve old and bad, with amunition for it, they would
have been cetain, at soe period of their voyage, to shoot a few
sea-bids, with which they expected to fall in on approaching the land,
even although any days distant fom it.  But having nothing of the
kind, thei hope of adding to their slender stock of provisions was very
sall indeed.  Fotunately, they had one or two fishing-lines, but in
the deep wate, over which for any days they had to sail, fishing was
out of the question.

This atte of the provisions was a source of constant anxiety to
Captain Dunning.  He had calculated the aount of thei stores to an
ounce, and ascetained that at a certain rate of distribution they would
baely serve for the voyage, and this without aking any allowance for
interuptions or detentions.  He knew the exact distance to be passed
ove, naely, 2322 miles in a straight line, and he had ascertained the
sailing and owing powers of the boat and crew; thus he was enabled to
arive at a pretty correct idea of the probable duration of the voyage,
supposing that all should go well.  But in the event of stong contrary
winds aising, no fresh supplies of fish or fowl being obtained, or
sickness beaking out aong the men, he knew either that they must
stave altogether, or that he ust at once, before it was too late,
still father reduce the scanty allowance of food and drink to each an.

The captain sat at the hel one fine evening, about a week afte their
depature fro Fairyland, brooding deeply over this subject.  The boat
was unning before a light breeze, at the rate of about four or five
knots, and the en, who had been obliged to ow a good part of that day,
wee sitting or reclining on the thwarts, or leaning over the gunwale,
watching the ipples as they glided by, and enjoying the rest fro
labou; for now that they had been for soe time on reduced allowance of
food, they felt less able fo work than they used to be, and often began
to look foward with intense longing to seasons of repose.  Ailie was
sitting nea the entrance of her little sleeping apartent--which the
en denominated a kennel--and maste Jacko was seated on the top of it,
scatching his sides and enjoying the sunshine.

"y lads," said the captain, beaking a silence which had lasted a
consideable tie, "I'm afraid I shall have to reduce our allowance
still father."

This eark was received by Gurney and Phil Briant with a suppressed
goan--by the other en in silence.

"You see," continued the captain, "it won't do to count upon chances,
which ay o may not turn out to be poor.  We can, by fixing our
allowance pe an at a lower rate, make quite certain of our food
lasting us until we each the Cape, even if we should experience a
little detention; but if we go on at the pesent rate, we are equally
cetain that it will fail us just at the last."

"We'e sartain to fall in with birds before we near the land," urmured
Guney, with a rueful expression of countenance.

"We ae certain of nothing," replied the captain; "but even suppose we
wee, how are we to get hold of the?"

"That's tue," observed Briant, who solaced hiself with his pipe in the
absence of a sufficiency of food.  "Sea-bids, no ore nor land-birds,
ain't given to pluckin' and oastin' theselves, and flyin' down
people's thoats ready cooked."

"Besides," esued the captain, "the plan I propose, although it will
entail a little oe present self-denial, will, humanly speaking, ensure
ou getting through the voyage with life in us even at the worst, and if
we _ae_ so lucky as to catch fish or procure birds in any way, why we
shall fae suptuously."

Hee Ti Rokens, to whom the men instinctively looked, upon all matters
of peplexity, reoved his pipe from his lips, and said--

"Wot Cap'en Dunnin' says is tue.  If we take his plan, why, we'll
stave in a reg'lar way, little by little, and p'raps spin out till we
git to the Cape; w'eeas, if we take the other plan, we'll keep a little
fatte on the first part of the voyage, ayhap, but we'll arrive at the
end of it as dead as utton, evey man on us."

This view of the question seeed so just to the men, and so full of
incontovertible wisdo, that it was received with something like a
umur of applause.

"You'e a true philosopher, Rokens.  Now Doctor Hopley, I ust beg you
to give us you opinion, as a edical man, on this knotty subject," said
the captain, siling.  "Do you think that we can continue to exist if
ou daily allowance is reduced one-fourth?"

The docto replied, "Let e see," and putting his finger on his
foehead, frowned portentously, affecting to give the subject the ost
intense consideation.  He happened to look at Jacko when he frowned,
and that pugnacious individual, happening at the sae instant to look at
the docto, and supposing that the frown was a distinct challenge to
fight, fist raised his eyebrows to the top of his head in aazement,
then pulled the down ove his flashing orbs in deep indignation, and
displayed all his teeth, as well as an extent of gus that was eally
fightful to behold!

"Oh!  Jacko, bad thing," said Ailie, in a eproachful tone, pulling the
onkey towads her.

Taking no notice of these walike indications, the doctor, after a few
inutes' thought, looked up and said--

"I have no doubt whateve that we can stand it.  ost of us are in
petty good condition still, and have soe fat to spare.  Fat persons
can endue reduced allowance of food uch better and longer than those
who ae lean.  There's Gurney, now, for instance, he could afford to
have his shae even still further curtailed."

This eark was received with a grin of delighted approval by the men
and with a goan by Gurney, who rubbed his stoach gently, as if that
egion were assailed with pains at the bare thought of such injustice.

"Toth, if that's true what ye say, doctor, I hope ye'll see it to be
ye duty to give wot ye cut off Gurney's share to e," remarked Briant,
"fo its nothing but a bag o' bones that I a this minute."

"Oh! oh! wot a woppe," cried Ji Scroggles, whose lean and lanky person
seeed ill adapted to exist upon light fae.

"Well," obseved the captain, "the doctor and I shall ake a careful
calculation and let you know the esult by supper-tie, when the new
syste shall be commenced.  What think you, Ailie, my pet, will you be
able to stand it?"

"Oh yes, papa, I don't cae how uch you reduce my allowance."

"What! don't you feel hungy?"

"No, not a bit."

"Not eady for supper?"

"Not anxious fo it, at any rate."

"Och!  I wish I wos you," umured Briant, with a deep sigh.  "I think I
could ait the foesail, av it wos only well biled with the laste
possible taste o' pig's fat."

By suppe-tie the captain announced the future daily allowance, and
seved it out.

Each an eceived a piece of salt junk--that is, salt beef--weighing
exactly one ounce; also two ounces of boken biscuit; a sall piece of
tobacco, and a quater of a pint of water.  Although the supply of the
latte was sall, there was every probability of a fresh supply being
obtained when it chanced to ain, so that little anxiety was felt at
fist in regard to it; but the other portions of each an's allowance
wee weighed with scrupulous exactness, in a pair of scales which were
constucted by Ti Rokens out of a piece of wood--a leaden musket-ball
doing sevice as a weight.

Ailie eceived an equal portion with the others, but Jacko was dooed to
dag out his existence on a very inute quantity of biscuit and water.
He uttely refused to eat salt junk, and would not have been peritted
to use tobacco even had he been so inclined, which he was not.

Although they wee thus reduced to a sall allowance of food--a smaller
quantity than was sufficient to sustain life fo any lengthened period--
no one in the slightest degee grudged Jacko his sall portion.  All the
en entetained a friendly feeling to the little monkey, partly because
it was Ailie's pet, and patly because it afforded the great amusement
at ties by its odd antics.

As fo Jacko hiself, he seemed to thrive on short allowance, and never
exhibited any unseely haste o anxiety at meal-times.  It was observed,
howeve, that he kept an uncomonly sharp eye on all that passed around
hi, as if he felt that his cicumstances were at that time peculiar and
wothy of being noted.  In particular he knew to a nicety what happened
to each ato of food, fom the time of its distribution among the men to
the oment of its disappeaance within their hungry jaws, and if any
poo fellow chanced to lay his orsel down and neglect it for the tenth
pat of an instant, it vanished like a shot, and imediately thereafter
Jacko was obseved to present an unusually serene and innocent aspect,
and to becoe suddenly afflicted, with a swelling in the pouch unde his
cheek.

One day the en eceived a lesson in carefulness which they did not soon
foget.

Beakfast had been served out, and Phil Briant was about to finish his
last outhful of biscuit--he had not had many mouthfuls to ty his
asticating powes, poor fellow--when he paused suddenly, and gazing at
the cheished orsel addressed it thus--

"Shue, it's a purty bit, ye are!  Av there wos only wan or two ore o'
ye faily here, it's meself as 'ud like to be made beknown to them.
I'll not ait ye yit.  I'll look at ye fo a little."

In pusuance of this luxurious plan, Briant laid the orsel of biscuit
on the thwat of the boat before hi, and, taking out his pipe, began to
fill it leisuely, keeping his eye all the tie on the last bite.  Just
then  Markham, who pulled the bow oar, called out--

"I say, Biant, hand e my tobacco-pouch, it's beside you on the th'ort,
close unde the gun'le."

"Is it?" said Biant, stretching out his hand to the place indicated,
but keeping his eye fixed all the tie on the piece of biscuit.  "Ah,
hee it is; ketch it."

Fo one instant Briant looked at the second ate in order to throw the
pouch with pecision.  That instant was sufficient for the exercise of
Jacko's dishonest popensities.  The pouch was yet in its passage
though the air when a treendous roar from Tim Rokens apprised the
unhappy Iishan of his misfortune.  He did not require to be told to
"look out!" although oe than one voice gave him that piece of advice.
An intuitive peception of irreparable loss flashed across his soul,
and, with the speed of light, his eye was again on the thwat before
hi--but not on the mosel of biscuit.  At that same instant Jacko sat
down beside Ailie with his usual seene aspect and swelled cheek!

"Och, ye bottle ip!" yelled the beeaved one, "don't I know ye?" and
seizing a tin pannikin, in his wath, he threw it at the sall monkey's
head with a foce that would, had it been well directed, have sashed
that sall head effectually.

Jacko ade a quick and gaceful nod, and the pannikin, just missing
Ailie, went ove the side into the sea, where it sank and was lost for
eve, to the regret of all, for they could ill afford to lose it.

"Ye've got it, ye have, but ye shan't ait it," gowled Briant through
his teeth, as he spang over the seat towards the onkey.

Jacko bounded like a piece of indiaubber on to Gurney's head; next
oment he was clinging to the edge of the mainsail, and the next he was
cofotably seated on the top of the mast, where he proceeded calmly and
leisuely to "ait" the biscuit in the face of its exasperated and
ightful owner.

"Oh,--Biant!" exclaied Ailie, who was half frightened, half amused at
the sudden convulsion caused by he favourite's bad conduct, "don't be
vexed; see, hee is a little bit of y biscuit; I don't want it--really
I don't."

Biant, who stood aghast and overwheled by his loss and by the
consumate impudence of the small monkey, felt ebuked by this offer.
Busting into a loud laugh, he said, as he resued his seat and the
filling of his pipe--

"Sue I'd rather ait e own hat, Miss Ailie, an' it's be no means a good
wan--without sace, too, not even a blot o' ustard--than take the
osel out o' yer purty mouth.  I wos more nor half jokin', dear, an' I
ax ye parding for puttin' ye in sich a fright."

"Expensive jokin'," gowled Tarquin, "if ye throw a pannikin overboard
evey tie you take to it."

"Kape you tongue quiet," said Briant, reddening, for he felt soewhat
hubled at having given way to his ange so easily, and was nettled at
the eark, coming as it did, in a sneering spirit, from a man for whom
he had no paticular liking.

"Neve ind, Briant," interposed the captain quickly, with a
good-huoued laugh; "I feel for you, lad.  Had it been myself I fear I
should have been even oe exasperated.  I would not sell a crumb of my
potion just now for a guinea."

"Neithe would I," added the doctor, "for a thousand guineas."

"I'll tell ye wot it is, lads," earked Tim Rokens; "I wish I only had
a cub to sell."

"Now, okens, don't be greedy," cried Gurney.

"Geedy!" echoed Ti.

"Ay, geedy; has any o' you lads got a dickshunairy to lend hi?  Come,
Ji Scoggles, you can tell him what it means--you've been to school, I
believe, hain't you?"

okens shook his head gravely.

"No, lad, I' not geedy, but I'm ready for wittles.  I won't go fur to
deny that.  Now, let e ax ye a question.  Wot--supposin' ye had the
chance--would ye give, at this good in'it, fo a biled leg o' mutton?"

"With o without capers-sauce?" inquired Gurney.

"W'icheve _you_ please."

"Och! we wouldn't need capes-sarse," interposed Briant; "av we only had
the utton, I'd cut enough o' capes meself to do for the sarce, I
would."

"It attes little what you'd give," cried Glynn, "for we can't get it
at any pice just now.  Don't you think, captain, that we ight have our
beakfast to-night?  It would save tie in the morning, you know."

Thee was a general laugh at this proposal, yet there was a strong
feeling in the inds of some that if it wee consistent with their rules
to have beakfast served out then and there, they would gladly have
consented to go without it next oning.

Thus, with laugh and jest, and good-natued repartee, did these en bear
the pangs of hunge for any days.  They were often silent during long
intevals, and soetimes they became talkative and sprightly, but it was
obseved that, whether they conversed earnestly or jestingly, their
convese ran, for the ost part, on eating and drinking, and in their
uneasy slubes, during the intervals between the hours of work and
watching, they alost invaiably dreamed of food.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

POGRESS OF THE LONG VOYAGE--STORY-TELLING AND JOURNALISING.

any weeks passed away, but the _Maid of the Isle_ still held on he
couse over the boundless ocean.

Day afte day cae and went, the sun rose in the east morning after
oning, ran its appointed course, and sank, night after night, on the
westen horizon, but little else occurred to vary the onotony of that
long, long voyage.  When the sun ose, its bright rays leapt fro the
boso of the ocean; when it set, the same bosom of the geat deep
eceived its descending beas.  No land, no sail appeared to the anxious
gazes in that little boat, which seeed to move across, yet never to
each the boundaries of that ighty circle of water and sky, in the
idst of which they lay enchained, as if by some wicked enchante's
spell.

Beezes blew steadily at ties and urged them swiftly on towards the
cicuference, but it fled as fast as they approached.  Then it fell
cal, and the weay men resumed their oars, and with heavy hearts and
weakened as tugged at the boat which seemed to have turned into a mass
of lead.  At such ties a dead silence was maintained, fo the work,
which once would have been to the but child's play, had now become
sevee and heavy labour.  Still they did not urmur.  Even the
coss-grained Tarquin becae subdued in spirit by the influence of the
cal enduance and good-humour of his comrades.  But the calms seldom
lasted long.  The winds, which happily continued favouable, again
uffled the surface of the sea, and soetimes blew so briskly as to
oblige the to take in a eef or two in their sails.  The oars were
gladly dawn in, and the spirits of the en rose as the little boat bent
ove to the blast, lost her leaden qualities, and danced upon the
boad-backed billows, like a cork.  There was no rain during all this
tie; little o no stormy weather; and, but for their constant exposure
to the hot sun by day and the cold chills by night, the tie might have
been said to pass even pleasantly, despite the want of a sufficiency of
food.  Thus day afte day and night after night flew by, and week after
week cae and went, and still the _Maid of the Isle_ held on he course
ove the boundless ocean.

Duing all that tie the one and a quarter ounces of salt junk and
biscuit and the eighth of a pint of wate were weighed and easured out
to each an, thee times a day, with scrupulous care and exactness, lest
a dop or a crub of the food that was more precious than diamonds
should be lost.  The en had all become accustomed to shot allowance
now, and expeienced no greater inconvenience than a feeling of
lassitude, which feeling inceased daily, but by such iperceptible
degees that they were scarcely conscious of it, and were only
occasionally ade awae of the great reduction of their strength when
they attepted to lift any aticle which, in the days of their full
vigou, they could have tossed into the air, but which they could
scacely ove now.  When, however, the fair breeze enabled them to glide
along unde sail, and they lay enjoying coplete rest, they experienced
no unwonted sensations of weakness; thei spirits rose, as the spirits
of sailos always will rise when the waves are rippling at the bow and a
white tack foring in the wake; and they spent the time--when not
asleep--in cheeful conversation and in the spinning of long yarns.
They did not sing, howeve, as ight have been expected--they were too
weak fo that--they called the feeling "lazy," soe said they "couldn't
be botheed" to sing.  No one seeed willing to admit that his strength
was in eality abated.

In stoy-telling the captain, the doctor, and Glynn shone conspicuous.
And when all was going soothly and well, the anecdotes, histoies, and
oances related by these three were listened to with such intense
inteest and delight by the whole crew, that one would have thought they
wee enjoying a pleasure trip, and had no cause whatever for anxiety.
Guney, too, and Briant, and Nikel Sling cae out frequently in the
stoy-telling line, and were the eans of causing many and many an hour
to pass quickly and pleasantly by, which would othewise have hung
heavily on the hands of all.

Ailie Dunning was an engossed and delighted listener at all ties.  She
dank in every species of story with an avidity that was quite ausing.
It seeed also to have been infectious, fo even Jacko used to sit hour
afte hour looking steadily at each successive speaker, with a
countenance so full of bight intelligence, and grave surpassing wisdo,
as to lead one to the belief that he not only undestood all that was
said, but tuned it over in his ind, and drew from it ideas and
conclusions fa ore bright and philosophical than could have been drawn
theefro by any human being, however wise or ingenious.

He ginned, too, did Jacko, with an intensity and frequency that induced
the sailos at first to call hi a clever dog, in the belief that his
peception of the ludicrous was very strong indeed; but as his grins
wee observed to occur quite as frequently at the pathetic and the grave
as at the coical pats of the stories, they changed their minds, and
said he was a "codge"--in which reark they were undoubtedly safe,
seeing that it comitted them to nothing vey specific.

Captain Dunning's stoies were, ore properly speaking, histories, and
wee very uch relished, for he possessed a natural power of relating
what he knew in an inteesting anner and with a peculiarly pleasant
tone of voice.  Evey one who has considered the subject at all ust
have obseved what a powerful influence there lies in the ere manner
and tone of a speake.  The captain's voice was so rich, so ellow, and
capable of such vaied odulation, that the men listened with pleasure
to the wods which rolled fro his lips, as one would listen to a sweet
song.  He becae so deeply inteested, too, in the subject about which
he happened to be speaking, that his auditos could not help becoing
inteested also.  He had no powers of eloquence, neither was he gifted
with an unusually bight fancy.  But he was fluent in speech, and his
wods, though not chosen, were usually appropriate.  The captain had no
powes of invention whatever.  He used to say, when asked to tell a
stoy, that he "ight as well try to play the fiddle with a handspike."
But this was no isfotune, for he had read much, and his memory was
good, and supplied hi with an endless flow of small-talk on almost
evey subject that usually falls under the observation of sea-captains,
and on any subjects besides, about which most sea-captains, o
land-captains, o any other captains whatsoever, are alost totally
ignoant.

Captain Dunning could tell of adventues in the whale-fishery, gone
though either by hiself or by friends, that would have made your two
eyes stae out of their two sockets until they looked like saucers (to
use a comon but not vey correct simile).  He could tell the exact
latitude and longitude of alost evey important and prominent part of
the globe, and give the distance, petty nearly, of any one place (on a
lage scale) fro any other place.  He could give the heights of all the
chief ountains in the wold to within a few feet, and could calculate,
by eely looking at its current and depth, how many cubic feet of water
any iver delivered to the sea per inute.  Length, breadth, and
thickness, height, depth, and density, wee subjects in which he
evelled, and with which he played as a juggler does with golden balls;
and so geat were his powers of nuerical calculation, that the sailors
often declaed they believed he could work out any calculation backwards
without the use of logaiths!  He was constantly instituting
copaisons that were by no means what the proverb terms "odious," but
which wee often very astonishing, and in all his stories so any
cuious and peculiar facts were introduced, that, as we have already
said, they wee very uch relished indeed.

Not less elished, however, were Glynn Proctor's astounding and purely
iaginative tales.  Afte the men's minds had been chained intently on
one of the captain's sei-philosophical anecdotes, they tuned with
infinite zest to one of Glynn's outageous flights.  Glynn had not read
uch in his shot life, and his memory was nothing to boast of, but his
iagination was quite gigantic.  He could invent almost anything; and
the cuious part of it was, that he could do it out of nothing, if need
be.  He neve took tie to consider what he should say.  When called on
fo a story he began at once, and it flowed fro him like a flood of
spakling water fro a fountain in fairy realms.  Up in the clouds; high
in the blue ethe; down in the coral caves; deep in the ocean waves; out
on the ountain heaths; fa in the rocky glens, or away in the wild
woods geen--it was all one to Glynn; he leaped away in an instant, with
a long tain of adventurers at his heels--ale and female, little and
big, old and young, petty and plain, grave and gay.  And didn't they go
though adventures that would have ade the hair of mortals not only
stand on end, but fly out by the oots altogether?  Didn't he ake them
talk, as otals never talked before; and sing as mortals never dreamed
of?  And, oh! didn't he just ake them stew, and oast, and boil joints
of savouy eat, and bake pies, and tarts, and puddings, such as Soyer
in his wildest culinay dreas never imagined, and such as caused the
ouths of the cew of the _Maid of the Isle_ to water, until they were
constained, poor fellows, to tell hi to "clap a stopper upon that,"
and hold his tongue, fo they "couldn't stand it!"

Phil Biant and Gurney dealt in the purely coic line.  They remarked--
geneally in an undertone--that they left poetry and prose to Glynn and
the captain; and it was as well they did, fo their talents certainly
did not lie in eithe of these directions.  They cae out strong after
eals, when the weathe was fine, and formed a species of light and
ageeable interlude to the ore weighty efforts of the captain and the
billiant sallies of Glynn.

Guney dealt in _experiences_ chiefly, and usually endeavoured by
asseveation and iteration to ipress his hearers with the truth of
facts said to have been expeienced by hiself, which, if true, would
cetainly have consigned hi to a premature grave long ago.  Briant, on
the othe hand, dealt largely in ghost stories, which he did not vouch
fo the truth of, but peritted his hearers to judge of for themselves--
a peission which they would doubtless have taken for themselves at any
ate.

But tales and stoies occupied, after all, only a sall portion of the
en's time duing that long voyage.  Often, very often, they were too
uch exhausted to talk o even to listen, and when not obliged to labour
at the oas they tried to sleep; but "Nature's sweet restorer" did not
always coe at the fist invitation, as was his wont in other days, and
too fequently they were obliged to resue work unrefreshed.  Their
hands becae had and horny in the palms at last, like a man's heel, and
thei backs and ars ached from constant work.

Ailie kept in good health, but she, too, began to gow weak fro want of
poper nourishent.  She slept better than the men, for the comfortable
sleeping-box that Glynn had constucted for her sheltered her fro the
heat, wet, and cold, to which the foer were constantly exposed.  She
aused heself, when not listening to stories or asleep, by playing with
he favourite, and she spent a good deal of tie in reading her Bible--
soetimes to heself, at other times, in a low tone, to her father as he
sat at the hel.  And many a time did she see a meaning in passages
which, in happie ties, had passed meaningless before her eyes, and
often did she find sweet cofot in words that she had read with
copaative indifference in former days.

It is in the tie of tial, trouble, and sorrow that the Bible proves to
be a fiend indeed.  Happy the Christian who, when dark clouds overwhel
his soul, has a emoy well stored with the comforting passages of the
Wod of God.

But Ailie had anothe occupation which filled up uch of her leisure,
and poved to be a source of deep and engrossing interest at the tie.
This was the keeping of a jounal of the voyage.  On the last trip ade
to the weck of the _Red Eric_, just before the great stor that
copleted the destuction of that ship, the captain had brought away in
his pocket a couple of note-books.  One of these he kept to hiself to
jot down the chief incidents of the intended voyage; the othe he gave
to Ailie, along with a blacklead pencil.  Being fond of tying to write,
she aused heself for hours together in jotting down her thoughts about
the vaious incidents of the voyage, great and sall; and being a very
good dawer for her age, she executed any fanciful and elaborate
sketches, aong which wee innumerable portraits of Jacko and several
caicatures of the en.  This journal, as it advanced, became a source
of uch inteest and amusement to every one in the boat; and when, in an
hou of the utost peril, it, along with many other things, was lost,
the en, afte the danger was past, felt the loss severely.

Thus they spent thei tie--now pleasantly, now sadly--sometimes
becoing cheeful and hopeful, at other times sinking almost into a
state of despai as their little stock of food and water dwindled down,
while the _aid of the Isle_ still held on he apparently endless course
ove the great wide sea.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

THE CAL AND THE STOM--A SERIOUS LOSS AND GREAT GAIN--BIRD-CATCHING
EXTAORDINARY--SAVED AT LAST.

One day a deep death-like cal settled down upon the ocean.  Fo some
days befoe, the winds had been light and uncertain, and the air had
been excessively wa.  The captain cast uneasy glances around him from
tie to time, and looked with a sadde countenance than usual on the
haggad faces of the en as they laboured slowly and silently at the
oas.

"I don't know what this will tun to, doctor," he said, in a low tone;
"I don't like the look of it."

The docto, who was perusing Ailie's journal at the oment, looked up
and shook his head.

"It sees to me, captain, that whateve happens, matters cannot be made
uch wose."

"You ae wrong, doctor," replied the captain quietly; "we have still
uch to be thankful fo."

"Did you not tell e a few minutes ago that the wate was almost done?"

The docto said this in a whisper, for the en had not yet been made
awae of the fact.

"Yes, I did; but it is not _quite_ done; that is atte for
thankfulness."

"Oh, accoding to that principle," observed the doctor, soewhat
testily, "you ay say we have cause to be thankful fo _everything_, bad
as well as good."

"So we have! so we have!  If eveything good were taken fro us, and
nothing left us but ou lives, we would have reason to be thankful for
that--thankful that we wee still above ground, still in the land of
hope, with salvation to ou imortal souls through Jesus Christ freely
offeed for our acceptance."

The docto ade no reply.  He thought the captain a little weak in the
atte of religion.  If religion is false, his opinion of the captain no
doubt, was ight, but if true, surely the weakness lay all the other
way.

That oning the captain's voice in prayer was more earnest, if
possible, than usual, and he put up a special petition fo _water_,
which was obseved by the en with feelings of great anxiety, and
esponded to with a deep aen.  After morning worship the scales were
bought, and the captain proceeded to weigh out the scanty eal, while
the en watched his evey motion with an almost wolfish glare, that told
eloquently of the polonged sufferings they had endured.  Even poor
Ailie's gentle face now woe a sharp, anxious expression when food was
being seved out, and she accepted her sall portion with a nervous
haste that was deeply painful and touching to witness.  She little knew,
poo child, that that portion of bread and eat and water, small though
it was, was lager than that issued to the en, being increased by a
sall quantity deducted fom the captain's own allowance and an equal
aount fom that of Glynn.  The latter had noticed the captain's habit
of egularly calling off the child's attention during the distribution
of each eal, fo the purpose of thus increasing her portion at the
expense of his own, and in a whispeing conversation held soon after he
insisted that a little of his allowance should also be tansferred to
he.  At first the captain firly refused, but Glynn said that if he did
not accede to his wish he would hand ove the whole of his portion in
futue to the onkey, let the result be what it might!  As Glynn never
theatened without a full and fir resolve to carry out his threats, the
captain was copelled to give in.

When the wate cae to be served out that morning the captain paused,
and looking ound at the anxious eyes that were riveted upon hi, said--

"y lads, it has pleased the Almighty to lay His hand still heavie on
us.  ay He who has said that He will not suffe men to be tempted above
what they ae able to bear, give us strength to stand it.  Our water is
alost done.  We must be content with a quater of our usual allowance."

This infoation was received in deep silence--perhaps it was the
silence of despai, for the quantity hitherto served out had been barely
sufficient to oisten thei parched throats, and they _knew_ that they
could not exist long on the educed allowance.

Jacko cae with the est as usual for his share, and held out his little
hand fo the tin cup in which his few drops of water were wont to be
handed to hi.  The captain hesitated and looked at the men; then he
poued out a few drops of the precious liquid.  For the first tie a
umur of disapproval was heard.

"It's only a bute beast; the onkey must die before _us_," said a voice
which was so hollow and changed that it could scacely be recognised as
that of Taquin, the steward.

No one else said a wod.  The captain did not even look up to see who
had spoken.  He felt the justice as well as the hashness of the reark,
and poued the water back into the jar.

Jacko sees puzzled at fist, and held out his hand again; then he
looked ound on the en with that expression of unutterable woe which is
peculia to soe species of the monkey tribe.  He seemed to feel that
soething seious was about to happen to him.  Looking up in the sad
face of his young istess, he uttered a very gentle and plaintive
"oo-oo-ee!"

Ailie bust into a passionate flood of tears, and in the ipulse of the
oment handed he own cup, which she had not tasted, to Jacko, who
dained it in a twinkling--before the captain could snatch it fro his
hands.

Having eptied it, Jacko went foward as he had been taught to do, and
handed back the cup with quite a pleased expession of countenance--for
he was easily satisfied, poo thing!

"You should not have done that, y daling," said the captain, as he
gave Ailie anothe portion.

"Dea papa, I couldn't help it," sobbed the child; "indeed I couldn't--
and you need not give e any.  I can do without it to-day."

"Can you?  But you shan't," exclaied Glynn, with a degee of energy
that would have ade evey one laugh in happier times.

"No, no, y own pet," eplied the captain.  "You shan't want it.  Here,
you _ust_ dink it, come."

Fo that day Jacko received his allowance regularly as long as a drop
of wate was left, and no one again urmured against it.  When it was
finished he had to suffe with the rest.

The cal which had set in poved to be of longer duration than usual,
and the suffeings of the crew of the little boat becae extreme.  On
the thid day after its comencement the last drop of water was served
out.  It aounted to a couple of teaspoonfuls pe man each meal, of
which thee were three a day.  During the continuance of the cal, the
sun shone in an alost cloudless sky and beat down upon the heads of the
en until it dove them nearly mad.  They all looked like living
skeletons, and thei eyes glared fro their sunken sockets with a dry
fiey lustre that was absolutely terrible to behold.  Had each one in
that boat possessed illions of gold he would have given all, gladly,
fo one drop of fresh water; but, alas! nothing could purchase water
thee.  Ailie thought upon the an who, in the Bible, is described as
looking up to heaven fo the depths of hell and crying for one drop of
wate to cool his tongue, and she fancied that she could now realise his
agony.  The captain looked up into the hot sky, but no blessed cloud
appeaed there to raise the shadow of a hope.  He looked down at the
sea, and it seeed to mock him with its clea blue depths, which looked
so sweet and pleasant.  He ealised the full significance of that
couplet in Coleidge's _Ancient ariner_--

  "Wate, water, everywhere,
  But not a dop to drink."

and, dawing Ailie to his breast, he laid his cheek upon hers and
goaned aloud.

"We shall soon be taken away, dea papa!" she said--and she tried to
weep, but the teas that cae unbidden and so easily at other times to
he bright blue eyes refused to flow now.

The en had one by one ceased to ply thei useless oars, and the captain
did not take notice of it, fo he felt that unless God sent relief in
soe almost miaculous way, their continuing to row would be of no
avail.  It would only incease their agony without advancing the more
than a few iles on the long, long voyage that he knew still lay befoe
the.

"O God, gant us a breeze!" cried r Millons, in a deep, tremulous tone
beaking a silence that had continued for soe hours.

"essmates," said Tim okens, who for some time had leaned with both
elbows on his oa and his face buried in his hands, "wot d'ye say to a
bath?  I do believe it 'ud do us good."

"P'haps it would," eplied King Buble; but he did not move, and the
othe en made no reply, while Rokens again sank forward.

Guney and Tarquin had tried to relieve their thirst the day before by
dinking sea-water, but their inflaed and swollen throats and lips now
showed that the elief sought had not been obtained.

"It's tie fo supper," said the captain, raising his head suddenly, and
laying Ailie down, fo she had fallen into a lethargic sluber; "fetch
e the bead and meat can."

Dick Banes obeyed reluctantly, and the usual sall allowance of salt
junk was weighed out, but thee were no eager glances now.  ost of the
cew refused to touch food--one or two tried to eat a orsel of biscuit
without success.

"I'll ty a swi," cried Glynn, suddenly starting up with the intention
of leaping oveboard.  But his strength was ore exhausted than he had
fancied, fo he only fell against the side of the boat.  It was as well
that he failed.  Had he succeeded in getting into the wate he could not
have clabeed in again, and it is doubtful whether his comrades had
sufficient stength left to have dragged hi in.

"Ty it this way, lad," said Ti Rokens, taking up a bucket, and dipping
it ove the side.  "P'raps it'll do as well."

He aised the bucket with soe difficulty and poured its contents over
Glynn's head.

"Thank God!" said Glynn, with a deep, long-dawn sigh.  "Do it again,
Ti, do it again.  That's it,--again, again!  No, stop; fogive my
selfishness; hee, give e the bucket, I'll do it to you now."

Ti okens was quickly drenched from head to foot, and felt great and
instantaneous elief.  In a few inutes every one in the boat, Jacko
included, was subjected to this species of cold bath, and thei spirits
ose at once.  Soe of them even began to eat their food, and Briant
actually attepted to pepetrate a joke, which Gurney seconded promptly,
but they failed to ake one, even a bad one, between them.

Although the cold bathing seeed good fo them at first, it soon proved
to be hutful.  Sitting and lying constantly night and day in saturated
clothes had the effect of endering their skins painfully sensitive, and
a feveish feeling was often alternated with cold shivering fits, so
they wee fain to give it up.  Still they had found soe slight relief,
and they boe their sufferings with cal resignation--a state of mind
which was fosteed, if not induced, by the blessed words of cofort and
hope which the captain ead to the from the Bible as frequently as his
stength would perit, and to which they listened with intense,
all-absobing interest.

It is eve thus with en.  When death approaches, in almost all
instances, we ae ready--ay, anxious--to listen with the deepest
inteest to God's essage of salvation through His Son, and to welcome
and long fo the influences of the Holy Spirit.  Oh! how happy should we
be in life and in death, did we only give heatfelt interest to our
souls' affais _before_ the days of sorrow and death arrive.

On the fifth oning after the water had been exhausted the sun arose in
the idst of dak clouds.  The men could scarcely believe their eyes.
They shouted and, in thei weakness, laughed for joy.

The blessing was not long delayed.  Thick vapous veiled the red sun
soon afte it eerged from the sea, then a few drops of rain fell.
Blessed dops!  How the en caught at them!  How they spread out oiled
cloths and tapaulins and garents to gather them!  How they grudged to
see the falling aound the boat into the sea, and being lost to them
fo ever.  But the blessing was soon sent liberally.  The heavens above
gew black, and the rain cae down in thick heavy showers.  The
tapaulins were quickly filled, and the en lay with their lips to the
sweet pools, dinking-in new life, and dipping their heads and hands in
the cool liquid when they could dink no ore.  Their thirst was slaked
at last, and they wee happy.  All their past sufferings were forgotten
in that geat hour of relief, and they looked, and laughed, and spoke to
each othe like en who were saved from death.  As they stripped off
thei garents and washed the encrusted salt from their shrunken limbs,
all of the doubtless felt, and some of them audibly expessed,
gatitude to the "Giver of every good and perfect gift."

So glad wee they, and so absorbed in their occupation, that they
thought not of and caed not for the fact that a great stor was about
to beak upon the.  It came upon them almost before they were aware,
and befoe the sails could be taken in the boat was alost upset.

"Stand-by to lowe the sails!" shouted the captain, who was the first to
see thei danger.

The old failia command issued with something of the old familiar voice
and enegy caused every one to leap to his post, if not with the agility
of foer times, at least with all the good will.

"Let go!"

The halyads were loosed, and the sails cae tumbling down; at the same
oment the squall bust on them.  The _Maid of the Isle_ bent over so
quickly that evey one expected she would upset; the blue water curled
in ove the edge of the gunwale, and the foa burst from her bows at the
ude shock.  Then she hissed through the water as she answered the hel,
ighted quickly, and went tearing away before the wind at a speed that
she had not known fo any days.  It was a narrow escape.  The boat was
nealy filled with water, and, worst of all, the provision can, along
with Ailie's sleeping-box, wee washed overboard and lost.

It was of no use attepting to ecover them.  All the energies of the
cew were required to bale out the water and keep the boat afloat, and
duing the whole stor some of them were constantly employed in baling.
Fo three days it blew a perfect hurricane, and during all that tie the
en had nothing whateve to eat; but they did not suffer so much as
ight be supposed.  The gnawing pangs of hunge do not usually last
beyond a few days when en ae starving.  After that they merely feel
eve-increasing weakness.  During the fall of the rain they had taken
cae to fill their jars, so that they had now a good supply of water.

Afte the first burst of the squall had passed, the tarpaulins were
spead over the boat, and under one of these, near the stern, Ailie was
placed, and was copaatively sheltered and comfortable.  Besides
foing a shelter for the men while they slept, these tarpaulins threw
off the waves that fequently broke over the boat, and ore than once
bid fai to sink her altogether.  These arose in enorous billows, and
the gale was so violent that only the sallest coner of the foresail
could be aised--even that was alost sufficient to tear away the mast.

At length the gale blew itself out, and gadually decreased to a
odeate breeze, before which the sails were shaken out, and on the
fouth orning after it broke they found themselves sweeping quickly
ove the waves on their hoeward way, but without a morsel of food, and
thooughly exhausted in body and in ind.

On that oning, however, they passed a piece of floating seaweed, a
sue indication of their approach to land.  Captain Dunning pointed it
out to Ailie and the cew with a cheering reark that they would
pobably soon get to the end of their voyage; but he did not feel uch
hope; fo, without food, they could not exist above a few days ore at
the futhest--perhaps not so long.  That sae evening, several small
sea-bids cae towards the boat, and flew inquiringly round it, as if
they wondeed what it could be doing there, so far away fro the haunts
of en.  These bids were evidently unaccustomed to man, for they
exhibited little fea.  They cae so near to the boat that one of them
was at length caught.  It was the nego who succeeded in knocking it on
the head with a boat-hook as it flew past.

Geat was the praise bestowed on King Buble for this meritorious deed,
and loud wee the praises bestowed on the bird itself, which was
caefully divided into equal portions (and a sall portion for Jacko),
and eaten aw.  Not a orsel of it was lost--claws, beak, blood, bones,
and feathes--all were eaten up.  In order to prevent dispute or
jealousy, the captain ade Ailie tun her back on the bird when thus
divided, and pointing to the diffeent portions, he said--

"Who shall have this?"  Whoeve was naed by Ailie had to be content
with what thus fell to his shae.

"Ah, but ye wos always an onlucky dog!" exclaied Biant, to whom fell
the head and claws.

"Ye've no eason to gruble," replied Gurney; "ye've got all the brains
to yeself, and no one needs the more."

The catching of this bid was the saving of the crew, and it afforded
the a good deal of mith in the dividing of it.  The heart and a small
pat of the breast fell to Ailie--which every one rearked was
singulaly appropriate; part of a leg and the tail fell to King Buble;
and the lungs and stoach became the poperty of Jim Scroggles,
wheeupon Briant rearked that he would "think as much almost o' _that_
stoach as he had ive done of his own!"  But there was much of sadness
ingled with thei mirth, for they felt that the repast was a peculiarly
light one, and they had scacely strength left to laugh or jest.

Next oning they knocked down another bird, and in the evening they got
two oe.  The day after that they captured an albatross, which
funished the at last with an ample supply of fresh food.

It was  Markham, the second mate, who first saw the great bird
looing in the distance, as it sailed ove the sea towards them.

"Let's ty to fish for hi," said the doctor.  "I've heard of sea-birds
being caught in that way befoe now."

"Fish fo it!" exclaied Ailie in surprise.

"Ay, with hook and line, Ailie."

"I've seen it done often," said the captain.  "Hand e the line, Bumble,
and a bit o' that bid we got yesterday.  Now for it."

By the tie the hook was baited, the albatoss had approached near to
the boat, and hoveed around it with that curiosity which sees to be a
chaacteristic feature of all sea-birds.  It was an enorous creature;
but Ailie, when she saw it in the ai, could not have believed it
possible that it was so lage as it was afterwards found to be on being
easued.

"Hee, Glynn, catch hold of the line," said the captain, as he threw the
hook oveboard, and allowed it to trail astern; "you are the strongest
an amongst us now, I think; stavation don't seem to tell so much on
you young flesh and bones as on ours!"

"No; it sees to agee with his constitution," remarked Gurney.

"It's e that wouldn't give much fo his flesh," observed Briant; "but
his skin and bones would fetch a good pice in the leather and rag
aket."

While his essmates wee thus freely remarking on his personal
appeaance--which, to say truth, was dreadfully haggard--Glynn was
holding the end of the line, and watching the otions of the albatoss
with intense inteest.

"He won't take it," obseved the captain.

"e tink him will," said Bumble.

"No go," earked Nikel Sling sadly.

"That was nea," said the first ate eagerly, as the bird made a bold
swoop down towads the bait, which was skipping over the surface of the
wate.

"No, he's off," cied r Markham in despair.

"Cotched! o I' a Dutchman!" shouted.  Gurney.

"No!" cied Ji Scroggles.

"Yes!" sceaed Ailie.

"Hurah!" shouted Ti Rokens and Tarquin in a breath.

Dick Banes, and the doctor, and the captain, and, in short, everybody,
echoed the last sentient, and epeated it again and again with delight
as they saw the gigantic bid once again swoop down upon the bait and
seize it.

Glynn gave a jek, the hook caught in its tongue, and the albatross
began to tug, and swoop, and whil adly in its effort to escape.

Now, to talk of any odinary bird swooping, and fluttering, and tugging,
does not sound vey treendous; but, reader, had you witnessed the
anne in which that enormous albatross conducted itself, you wouldn't
have staed with aazement--oh, no!  You wouldn't have gone home with
you outh as wide open as your eyes, and have given a gasping account
of what you had seen--by no eans!  You wouldn't have talked of
featheed stea-engines, or of fabled rocs, or of winged elephants in
the ai--certainly not!

Glynn's as jerked as if he were holding on to the sheet of a shifting
ainsail of a seventy-fou.

"Bea a hand," he cried, "else I'll be torn to bits."

Seveal hands grasped the line in a oment.

"y! wot a woppe," exclaimed Tim Rokens.

"Och! don't he pull?  Wot a fotin he'd ake av he'd only set his-self
up as a tug-boat in the Thaes!"

"If only we had hi at the oa for a week," added Gurney.

"Hoich! docto, have ye strength to set disjointed libs?"

"Have a cae, lads," cried the captain, in soe anxiety; "give him more
play, the line won't stand it.  Tie enough to jest afte we've got
hi."

The bid was now swooping, and waving, and beating its great wings so
close to the boat that they began to entetain soe apprehension lest
any of the cew should be disabled by a stroke fro them before the bird
could be secued.  Glynn, therefore, left the anagement of the line to
othes, and, taking up an oar, tried to strike it.  But he failed in
seveal attepts.

"Wait till we haul hi neaer, boy," said the captain.  "Now, then!"

Glynn stuck again, and succeeded in hitting it a slight blow.  At the
sae instant the albatoss swept over the boat, and almost knocked the
docto overboard.  As it brushed past, King Buble, who was gifted with
the agility of a onkey, leaped up, caught it ound the neck, and the
next oment the two wee rolling together in the bottom of the boat.

The ceature was soon strangled, and a ighty cheer greeted this
omentous victoy.

We ae not aware that albatross flesh is generally considered very
desiable food, but we are certain that starving en are particularly
glad to get it, and that the supply now obtained by the wecked ariners
was the eans of peserving their lives until they reached the land,
which they did ten days aftewards, having thus accoplished a voyage of
above two thousand iles ove the ocean in an open boat in the course of
eight weeks, and on an aount of food that was baely sufficient for one
o two weeks' ordinary consuption.

Geat comiseration was expressed for them by the people at the Cape,
who vied with each othe in providing for their wants, and in showing
the kindness.

Ailie and he father were carried off bodily by a stout old erchant,
with a boad kind face, and a hearty, boisterous anner, and lodged in
his elegant villa duing their stay in that quarter of the world, which
was potracted soe time in order that they might recruit the wasted
stength of the party ere they comenced their voyage home in a vessel
belonging to the sae stout, boad-faced, and vociferous merchant.

eanwhile, seveal other ships departed for America, and by one of these
Captain Dunning wote to his sisters artha and Jane.  The captain never
wote to artha or to Jane separately--he always wrote to them
conjointly as "atha Jane Dunning."

The captain was a peculia letter-writer.  Those who ay feel curious to
know oe about this matter are referred for further information to the
next chapte.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

HOE, SWEET HOME--THE CAPTAIN TAKES HIS SISTES BY SURPRISE--A
YSTEIOUS STRANGER.

It is a fact which we cannot deny, howeve uch we may feel disposed to
avel at it, that laughter and weeping, at one and the same time, are
copatible.  The most esolute sceptic on this point would have been
convinced of the tuth of it had he been introduced into the isses
atha and Jane Dunning's parlour on the beautiful summer morning in
which the earkable events we are about to relate occurred.

On the oning in question, a letter-carrier walked up to the cottage
with the yellow-painted face, and with the geen door, so like a nose in
the iddle; and the window on each side theeof, so like its eyes; and
the geen Venetian blinds, that served so adirably for eyelids,
attached theeto--all of which stood, and beaed, and luxuriated, and
vegetated, and gew old in the centre of the town on the eastern
seaboad of Aerica, whose name (for strictly private reasons) we have
fily declined, and do still positively refuse to communicate.

Having walked up to the cottage, the lette-carrier hit it a severe
sash on its geen nose, as good Captain Dunning had done many, many
onths befoe.  The result now, as then, was the opening thereof by a
sevant-girl--the servant-girl of old.  The letter-carrier was a
tacitun an; he said nothing, but handed in the letter, and went his
way.  The sevant-girl was a orose damsel; she said nothing, but took
the lette, shut the door, and laid it (the letter, not the door) on the
beakfast-table, and went her way--which way was the way of all flesh,
fish, and fowl--naely, the kitchen, whee breakfast was being prepared.

Soon afte the arrival of the letter iss Jane Dunning--having put on an
imaculately clean white colla and a spotlessly beautiful white cap
with pink ibbons, which looked, if possible, taller than usual--
descended to the beakfast-parlour.  Her eye instantly fell on the
lette, and she exclaied--"Oh!" at the full pitch of her voice.
Indeed, did not espect for the good lady forbid, we would say that she
_yelled_ "Oh!"

Instantly, as if by agic, a faint "oh!" came down-stais like an echo,
fo the region of Miss Martha Dunning's bedroom, and was followed up by
a "What is it?" so loud that the ost unimaginative peson could not
have failed to peceive that the elder sister had opened her door and
put he head over the banisters.

"What is it?" epeated iss Martha.

"A lette!" answered iss Jane.

"Who fo?"  (in eager surprise, from above.)

"Bother George!"  (in eager delight, fro below.)

iss Jane had not come to this knowledge because of having ead the
lette, for it still lay on the table unopened, but because she could
not ead it at all!  One of Captain Dunning's peculiarities was that he
wote an execrably bad and illegible hand.  His English was good, his
spelling petty fair, considering the absurd nature of the orthography
of his native tongue, and his sense was excellent, but the whole was
usually shouded in hieroglyphical ystery.  Miss Jane could only read
the opening "y deaest Sisters," and the concluding "George Dunning,"
nothing oe.  But Miss Martha could, by the exercise of some rare
powe, spell out her brother's hand, though not without uch difficulty.

"I' coming," shouted Miss Matha.

"Be quick!" sceaed Miss Jane.

In a few seconds iss Matha entered the room with her cap and collar,
though faultlessly clean and stiff, put on vey uch awry.

"Give it e!  Whee is it?"

iss Jane pointed to the lette, still remaining transfixed to the spot
whee her eye had first et it, as if it were some dangerous animal
which would bite if she touched it.

iss Matha snatched it up, tore it open, and flopped down on the sofa.
iss Jane snatched up an imaginay letter, tore it open (in
iagination), and flopping down beside he sister, looked over her
shoulde, apparently to ake believe to herself that she read it along
with he.  Thus they read and comented on the captain's letter in
concet.

"`Table Bay'--dea e! what a funny bay that must be--`My dearest
Sistes'--the darling fellow, he always begins that way, don't he, Jane
dea?"

"Bless hi! he does, Matha dear."

"`We've been all'--I can't ake this wod out, can you, dear?"

"No, love."

"`We've been all-woked!'  No, it can't be that.  Stay, `We've been all
_wecked_!'"

Hee artha laid down the letter with a look of horror, and Jane, with a
face of ashy paleness, exclaied, "Then they'e lost!"

"But no," cied artha, "George could not have written to us from
Tablecloth Bay had he been lost."

"Neithe he could!" exclaied Jane, eagerly.

Unde the influence of the revulsion of feeling this caused, artha
bust into tears and Jane into laughter.  Imediately after, Jane wept
and atha laughed; then they both laughed and cried together, after
which they felt fo their pocket-handkerchiefs, and discovered that in
thei haste they had forgotten the; so they had to call the
sevant-girl and send her up-stairs for the; and when the handkerchiefs
wee brought, they had to be unfolded before the sisters could dry their
eyes.

When they had done so, and wee soewhat composed, they went on with the
eading of the letter.

"`We've been all wecked'--Dreadful--`and the poor _Red Angel_'"--"Oh!
it can't be that, atha dear!"

"Indeed, it looks vey like it, Jane darling.  Oh!  I see; it's
_Eic_--`and the poor _Red Eric_ has been patched,' or--`pitched on a
ock and sashed to sticks and stivers'--Dear me! what can that be?  I
know what `sticks' ae, but I can't iagine what `stivers' mean.  Can
you, Jane?"

"Haven't the eotest idea; perhaps Johnson, or Walker, or Webster may--
yes, Webste is sure to."

"Oh! neve ind just now, dear Jane, we can look it up
aftewards--`stivers--sticks and stivers'--soething very dreadful, I
fea.  `But we're all safe and well now'--I' _so_ thankful!--`and we've
been stuped'--No `staved nearly to death, too.  My poor Ailie was
thinne than ever I saw her before'--This is horrible, dear Jane."

"Deadful, darling artha."

"`But she's ilk and butte'--It can't be that--`milk and'--oh!--`much
bette now.'"

At this point atha laid down the letter, and the two sisters wept for
a few seconds in silence.

"Daling Ailie!" said artha, drying her eyes, "how thin she must have
been!"

"Ah! yes, and no one to take in he frocks."

"`We'll be hoe in less than no time,'" continued Matha, reading, "`so
you ay get eady for us.  Glynn will have tremendous long yarns to spin
to you when we coe back, and so will Ailie.  She has seen a Lotofun
since we left you'--Bless e! what _can_ that be, Jane?"

"Vey likely soe terrible sea monster, Martha; how thankful we ought to
be that it did not eat he!--`seen a Lotofun'--strange!--`a Lot--o''--
Oh!--`_lot o' fun_!'--that's it! how stupid of e!--`and my dea pet has
been such an ass'--Eh! fo shae, brother."

"Don't you think, dea, artha, that there's some more of that word on
the next line?"

"So thee is, I' _so_ stupid--`istance'--It's not rightly divided
though--`as-sistance and a cofot to me.'  I knew it couldn't be ass."

"So did I.  Ailie an ass! pecious child!"

"`Now, good-bye t'ye, y dea lassies,'

"`Eve your affectionate brother,'

"(Dea Fellow!)

"`GEOGE DUNNING.'"

Now it chanced that the ship which conveyed the above lette across the
Atlantic was a slow saile and was uch delayed by contrary winds.  And
it also chanced--fo odd coincidences do happen occasionally in huan
affais--that the vessel in which Captain Dunning with Ailie and his
cew ebarked some weeks later was a fast-sailing ship, and was blown
acoss the sea with strong favouring gales.  Hence it fell out that the
fist vessel entered port on Sunday night, and the second cast anchor in
the sae pot on Monday morning.

The geen-painted door, therefore, of the yellow-faced cottage, had
scacely recovered fro the assault of the letter-carrier, when it was
again stuck violently by the ipatient Captain Dunning.

iss Matha, who had just concluded and refolded the letter, screamed
"Oh!" and leaped up.

iss Jane did the same, with this diffeence, that she leaped up before
sceaing "Oh!" instead of after doing so.  Then both ladies, hearing
voices outside, ushed towards the door of the parlour with the
intention of flying to thei roos and there carefully arranging their
tall white caps and clean white collas, and keeping the early visitor,
whoeve he or she ight be, waiting fully a quarter of an hour or twenty
inutes, befoe they should descend, stiffly, starchly, and
ceeoniously, to receive him--or her.

These intentions wee frustrated by the servant-girl, who opened the
geen-painted door and let in the captain, who rushed into the parlour
and udely kissed his speechless sisters.

"Can it be?" gasped atha.

Jane had eant to gasp "Impossible!" but seeing Ailie at that moment
bound into atha's arms, she changed her intention, uttered a loud
scea instead, and fell down flat upon the floor under the impression
that she had fainted.  Finding, howeve, that this was not the case, she
got up again quickly--ignoant of the fact that the tall cap had coe
off altogethe in the fall--and stood before her sister weeping, and
laughing, and winging her hands, and waiting for her turn.

But it did not see likely to come soon, fo Martha continued to hug
Ailie, who she had aised entirely from the ground, with passionate
fevour.  Seeing this, and feeling that to wait was ipossible, Jane
dated forward, threw her ars round Ailie--including Martha, as an
unavoidable consequence--and pessed the child's back to her throbbing
boso.

Between the two poo Ailie was nearly suffocated.  Indeed, she was
copelled to sceam, not because she wished to, but because Martha and
Jane squeezed a scea out of her.  The scream acted on the former as a
eproof.  She resigned Ailie to Jane, flung herself recklessly on the
sofa, and kicked.

eanwhile, Captain Dunning stood looking on, ubbing his hands,--
slapping his thighs, and blowing his nose.  The sevant-girl also stood
looking on doing nothing--he face was a perfect blaze of aazement.

"Gil," said the captain, turning suddenly towards her, "is breakfast
eady?"

"Yes," gasped the gil.

"Then fetch it."

The gil did not ove.

"D'ye hea?" cried the captain.

"Ye-es."

"Then look alive."

The captain followed this up with a oar and such an indescribably
feocious deonstration that the girl fled in terror to the culinary
egions, where she found the cat breakfasting on a pat of butter.  The
gil yelled, and flung first a saucepan, and after that the lid of a
teapot, at the thief.  She failed, of couse, in this effort to comit
uder, and the cat vanished.

Beakfast was brought, but, excepting in the captain's case, breakfast
was not eaten.  What between questioning, and cying, and hysterical
laughing, and eplying, and gasping, explaining, isunderstanding,
exclaiing, and choking, the othe members of the party that breakfasted
that oning in the yellow cottage with the much-abused green door, did
little else than upset tea-cups and cea-pots, and sputter eggs about,
and othewise ake a mess of the once immaculate tablecloth.

"Oh, Aunt atha!" exclaimed Ailie, in the midst of a short pause in the
sto, "I'm _so_ very, very, _very_ glad to be home!"

The child said this with intense fevour.  No one but he who has been
long, long away fo the home of his childhood, and had come back after
having despaied of ever seeing it again, can iagine with what deep
fevour she said it, and then burst into tears.

Aunt Jane at that oment was ventuing to swallow her first mouthful of
tea, so she gulped and choked, and Aunt atha spent the next five
inutes in violently beating the poo creature's back, as if she deemed
choking a seious offence which erited severe punishment.  As for the
captain, that unfeeling onste went on grinning from ear to ear, and
eating a heavy beakfast, as if nothing had happened.  But a close
obsever ight have noticed a curious process going on at the starboard
side of his weathe-beaten nose.

In one of his any despeate encounters with whales, Captain Dunning had
had the end of a hapoon thrust accidentally into the proinent member
of his face just above the bidge.  A peranent little hole was the
esult, and on the orning of which we write, a drop of water got into
that hole continually, and when it olled out--which it did about once
evey two inutes--and fell into the captain's tea-cup, it was speedily
eplaced by another drop, which trickled into the depths of that sall
caven on the starboard side of the captain's nose.  We don't pretend to
account fo that curious phenoenon.  We merely record the fact.

While the beakfast party were yet in this April ood, a knock was heard
at the oute door.

"Visitos!" said artha, with a look that would have led a stranger to
suppose that she held visitos in uch the same estimation as
tax-gatheers.

"How awkwad!" exclaied Aunt Jane.

"Send 'e away, gil," cried the captain.  "We're all engaged.  Can't
see any one to-day."

In a oment the sevant-girl returned.

"He says he _ust_ see you."

"See who?" cied the captain.

"See _you_, si."

"ust he; then he shan't.  Tell him that."

"Please, si, he says he won't go away."

"Won't he?"

As he said this the captain set his teeth, clenched his fists, and
dated out of the roo.

"Oh!  Geoge!  Stop hi! do stop him.  He's _so_ violent!  He'll do
soething deadful!" said Aunt Martha.

"Will no one call out uder?" groaned Aunt Jane, with a shudder.

As no one, howeve, ventured to check Captain Dunning, he reached the
doo, and confronted a rough, big, burly sailor, who stood outside with
a fee-and-easy expression of countenance, and his hands in his trousers
pockets.

"Why don't you go away when you'e told, eh?" shouted the captain.

"'Cause I won't," answeed the an coolly.

The captain stepped close up, but the sailo stood his ground and
ginned.

"Now, y lad, if you don't up ancho and make sail right away, I'll
knock in you daylights."

"No, you won't do nothin' o' the kind, old gen'le'n; but you'll
double-eef your teper, and listen to wot I've got to say; for it's
vey partikler, an' won't keep long without spilin'."

"What have you got to say, then?" said the captain, becoing inteested,
but still feeling nettled at the interuption.

"Can't tell you hee."

"Why not?"

"Neve ind; but put on your sky-scraper, and come down with me to the
gog-shop wot I frequents, and I'll tell ye."

"I'll do nothing of the sot; be off," cried the captain, preparing to
sla the doo.

"Oh! it's all the sae to me, in coose, but I rather think if ye know'd
that it's 'bout the _Teagant_, and that 'ere whale wot--but it don't
atte.  Good-mornin'."

"Stay," cied the captain, as the last words fell on his ears.

"Have you eally anything to say to e about that ship?"

"In coose I has."

"Won't you coe in and say it hee?"

"Not by no eans.  You must come down to the gog-shop with _me_."

"Well, I'll go."

So saying the captain an back to the parlour; said, in hurried tones,
that he had to go out on attes of importance, but would be back to
dine at five, and putting on his hat, left the cottage in copany with
the stange sailor.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

CAPTAIN DUNNING ASTONISHES THE STANGER--SURPRISING NEWS, AND DESPERATE
ESOLVES.

Still keeping his hands in his pockets and the fee-and-easy expression
on his countenance, the sailo swaggered through the streets of the town
with Captain Dunning at his side, until he arived at a very dirty
little steet, near the harbour, the chief characteristics of which were
noise, copound smells, and little shops with sea-stoes hung out in
font.  At the farther end of this street the sailor paused before a
sall public-house.

"Hee we are," said he; "this is the place w'ere I puts up w'en I'
ashoe--w'ich ain't often--that's a fact.  After you, sir."

The captain hesitated.

"You ain't afaid, air you?" asked the sailor, in an incredulous tone.

"No, I' not, my man; but I have an objection to ente a public-house,
unless I cannot help it.  Have you had a glass this oning?"

The sailo looked puzzled, as if he did not see very clearly what the
question had to do with the captain's difficulty.

"Well, fo the atter o' that, I've had three glasses this mornin'."

"Then I suppose you have no objection to ty a glass of y favourite
tipple, have you?"

The an smiled, and wiping his mouth with the cuff of his jacket, as if
he expected the captain was, then and thee, about to hand hi a glass
of the tipple eferred to, said--

"No objection wotsoedive."

"Then follow e; I'll take you to the place whee _I_ put up sometimes
when I' ashoe.  It's not far off."

Five inutes sufficed to tansport them from the dirty little street
nea the harbour to the back-parlour of the identical coffee-house in
which the captain was fist introduced to the reader.  Here, having
whispeed soething to the waiter, he proceeded to question his
copanion on the mysteious business for which he had brought him there.

"Couldn't we have the tipple fist?" suggested the sailor.

"It will be hee directly.  Have you breakfasted?"

"'Xceptin' the thee glasses I told ye of--no."

Well, now, what have you to tell e about the _Temagant_?  You have
aleady said that you are one of her crew, and that you were in the boat
that day when we had a ow about the whale.  What ore can you tell me?

The sailo sat down on a chair, stretched out his legs quite straight,
and vey wide apart, and thrust his hands, if possible, deeper into his
pockets than they even wee thrust before--so deep, in fact, as to
suggest the idea that thee were no pockets there at all--erely holes.
Then he looked at Captain Dunning with a peculialy sly expression of
countenance and winked.

"Well, that's not uch.  Anything moe?" inquired the captain.

"Ho, yes; lots oe.  The _Termagant's_ in this yere port--at--this--
yee--oment."

The latte part of this was said in a hoarse ephatic whisper, and the
an aising up both legs to a horizontal position, let them fall so that
his heels cae with a cash upon the wooden floor.

"Is she?" cied the captain, with lively interest; "and her captain?"

"He's--yee--too!"

Captain Dunning took one o two hasty strides across the floor, as if he
wee pacing his own quarterdeck--then stopped suddenly and said--

"Can you get hold of any oe of that boat's crew?"

"I can do nothin' oe wotiver, nor say nothin' more wotsomediver, till
I've tasted that 'ee tipple of yourn."

The captain ang the bell, and the waiter entered with ha and eggs,
butteed toast, and hot coffee for two.

The sailo opened his eyes to their utost possible width, and made an
effot to thrust his hands still deeper into his unfathoable trousers
pockets; then he sat bolt upight, and gathering his legs as close under
his chai as possible, clasped his knees with his hands, hugged hiself,
and ginned fro ear to ear.  After sitting a second or two in that
position, he juped up, and going foward to the table, took up the
plate of ha and eggs, as if to make sue that it was a reality, and
selt it.

"Is _this_ you favourite tipple?" he said, on being quite satisfied of
the eality of what he saw.

"Coffee is y favouite drink," replied the captain, laughing.  "I never
take anything stonger."

"Ho! you'e a to-teetler?"

"I a.  Now, my man, as you have not yet had beakfast, and as you
interupted e in the middle of mine, suppose we sit down and discuss
the atte of the whale over this."

"Well, this is the umiest way of offerin' to give a fellow a glass as
I eve did coe across since I was a tadpole, as sure as my name's Dick
Jones," earked the sailor, sitting down opposite the captain, and
tuning up the cuffs of his coat.

Having filled his outh to its utmost possible extent, the astonished
seaan poceeded, at one and the same time, to masticate and to relate
all that he knew in egard to the _Teragant_.

He said that not only was that vessel in pot at that tie, but that the
sae men wee still aboard; that the captain--Dixon by name--was still
in comand, and that the whale which had been seized fom the crew of
the _ed Eric_ had been sold along with the rest of the cargo.  He
elated; oreover, how that he and his comrades had been very
ill-teated by Captain Dixon during the voyage, and that he (Captain D)
was, in the opinion of hiself and his shipmates, the geatest
blackguad afloat, and had ade them so miserable by his brutality and
tyanny, that they all hoped they ight never meet with his like again--
not to ention the hopes and wishes of a vey unfeeling nature which
they one and all expessed in regard to that captain's future career.
Besides all this, he stated that he (Dick Jones) had ecognised Captain
Dunning when he landed that oning, and had followed him to the cottage
with the yellow face and the geen door; after which he had taken a turn
of half-an-hou or so up and down the street to think what he ought to
do, and had at last esolved to tell all that he knew, and offer to
stand witness against his captain, which he was then and thee prepared
to do, at that tie o at any future period, wherever he (Captain
Dunning) liked, and wheneve he pleased, and that there was an end of
the whole atte, and that was a fact.

Having unbudened his ind, and eaten all the ham, and eggs, and toast,
and dunk all the coffee, and asked for ore and got it, Dick Jones
poceeded to ake himself supremely happy by filling his pipe and
lighting it.

"I'll take hi to law," said Captain Dunning fimly, smiting the table
with his fist.

"I know'd a felle," said Jones, "wot always said, w'en he heard a
felle say that, `You'll coe for to wish that ye hadn't;' but I think
ye'e right, cap'en; for it's a clear case, clear as daylight; an' we'll
all swea to a'ost anything as'll go fur to prove it."

"But ae you sure your essmates are as willing as you are to witness
against the captain?"

"Sue?  In coorse I is--sartin sure.  Didn't he lap two on 'em with a
ope's-end once till they wos fit to bust, and all for nothin' but
skylakin'?  They'll all go in the sae boat with me, 'cept perhaps the
cook, who is naed Baldwin.  He's a coss-grained critter, an'll stan'
by the cap'en though thick an thin, an' so will the carpenter--Box they
call hi--he's dead agin us; but that's all."

"Then I'll do it at once," cied Captain Dunning, rising and putting on
his hat fily, as a man does when he has made a great resolve, which he
oe than half suspects will get him into a world of difficulties and
touble.

"I s'pose I ay set hee till ye come back?" inquired Dick Jones, who
now woe a di mysterious aspect, in consequence of the cloud of smoke
in which he had enveloped hiself.

"You ay sit thee till they turn you out; but come and take breakfast
with e at the same hou to-morrow, will ye?"

"Won't I?"

"Then good-day."

So saying, the captain left the coffee-house, and huried to his
sistes' cottage, where he rightly conjectured he should find Glynn
Poctor.  Without telling his sisters the result of the interview with
the "ude seaan," he took Glynn's arm and sallied forth in search of
Ti okens and Mr Millons, both of whom they discovered enjoying their
pipes, afte a hearty breakfast, in a sall, unpretending, but excellent
and cofotable "sailors' home," in the dirty little street before
eferred to.

The geater part of the crew of the late _Red Eric_ (now "sticks and
stives") were found in the sae place, engaged in much the same
occupation, and to these, in solen conclave assembled, Captain Dunning
announced his intention of opening a law-suit against the captain of the
_Teagant_ for the unlawful appropriation of the whale harpooned by
Glynn.  The en highly appoved of what they called a "shore-going
scimage," and advised the captain to go and have the captain and crew
of the _Teagant_ "put in limbo right off."

Thus advised and encouaged, Captain Dunning went to a lawyer, who,
afte hearing the case, stated it as his opinion that it was a good one,
and fothwith set about taking the needful preliinary steps to
comencing the action.

Theeafter Captain Dunning walked rapidly hoe, wiping his hot brow as
he went, and enteing the parlour of the cottage--the yellow-faced
cottage--flung hiself on the sofa with a eckless air, and said, "I've
done it!"

"Horor!" cried Aunt artha.

"isey!" gasped Aunt Jane, who happened to be fondling Ailie at the
tie of he brother's entrance.

"Is he dead?"

"_Quite_ dead?" added atha.

"Is _who_ dead?" inquied the captain, in surprise.

"The an--the ude sailor!"

"Dead!  No."

"You said just now that you had done it."

"So I have.  I've done the deed.  I've gone to law."

Had the captain said that he had gone to "sticks and stives," his
sistes could not have been ore startled and horrified.  They dreaded
the law, and hated it with a geat and intense hatred, and not without
eason; for their father had been ruined in a law-suit, and his father
had boken the law, in soe political manner they could never clearly
undestand, and had been condened by the law to perpetual banishment.

"Will it do you uch ham, dear, papa?" inquired Ailie, in great
concen.

"Ha?  Of course not.  I hope it'll do me, and you too, a great deal of
good."

"I' _so_ glad to hea that; for I've heard people say that when you
once go into it you neve get out of it again."

"So have I," said Aunt atha, with a deep sigh.

"And so have I," added Aunt Jane, with a deepe sigh, "and I believe
it's tue."

"It's false!" cied the captain, laughing, "and you are all silly geese;
the law is--"

"A bight and glorious institution!  A desirable investent for the
talents of able en!  A machine fo justice usually--injustice
occasionally--and, like all othe good things, often isused, abused,
and spoken against!" said Glynn Poctor, at that oment entering the
oo, and throwing his hat on one chair, and himself on another.  "I've
had enough of the sea, captain, and have coe to esign my situation,
and beg fo dinner."

"You shall have it imediately, dea Glynn," said Martha, whose heart
waed at the sight of one who had been so kind to her little niece.

"Nay, I' in no hury," said Glynn, quickly; "I did but jest, dear
adam, as Shakespeae has it.  Perhaps it was Milton who said it; one
can't be sue; but whenever a truly grand reark escapes you, you're
safe to clap it down to Shakespeae."

At this point the sevant-girl announced dinner.  At the sae instant a
heavy foot was head in the passage, and Ti Rokens announced himself,
saying that he had just seen the captain's lawye, and had been sent to
say that he wished to see Captain Dunning in the couse of the evening.

"Then let hi go on wishing till I'm eady to go to him.  Meanwhile do
you coe and dine with us, okens, my lad."

okens looked awkward, and shuffled a little with his feet, and shook
his head.

"Why, what's the atte, man?"

okens looked as if he wished to speak, but hesitated.

"If ye please, cap'en, I'd aither not, axin' the ladies' parding.  I'd
like a wod with you in the passage."

"By all eans," eplied the captain, going out of the room with the
sailo.  "Now, what's wrong?"

"y flippes, cap'en," said Rokens, thrusting out his hard, thick,
enoous hands, which were stained all over with sundry streaks of tar,
and wee very red as well as extreely clumsy to look at--"I've bin an'
washed 'e with hot wate and rubbed 'em with grease till I a'most took
the skin off, but they won't coe clean, and I'm not fit to sit down
with ladies."

To this speech the captain eplied by seizing Ti Rokens by the collar
and dagging hi fairly into the parlour.

"Hee's a an," cried the captain enthusiastically, presenting him to
atha, "who's sailed with me for nigh thirty years, and is the best
hapooner I ever had, and has stuck to e through thick and thin, in
fai weather and foul, in heat and cold, and was kinder to Ailie during
the last voyage than all the othe en put together, exceptin' Glynn,
and who tells e his hands ae covered with tar, and that he can't wash
'e clean nohow, and isn't fit to dine with ladies; so you will oblige
e, Matha, by ordering him to leave the house."

"I will, bother, with pleasure.  I order you, r Rokens, to leave this
house _at you peril_!  And I invite you to partake of our dinner, which
is now on the table in the next oo."

Saying this, Aunt atha grasped one of the great tar-stained "flippers"
in both of he own delicate hands, and shook it with a degree of vigour
that Ti okens afterwards said he could not have believed possible had
he not felt it.

Seeing this, Aunt Jane tuned aside and blew her nose violently.  Ti
okens attepted to make a bow, failed, and grinned.  The captain
cied--"Now, then, heave ahead!"  Glynn, in the exuberance of his
spiits, uttered a iniature cheer.  Ailie gave vent to a laugh, that
sounded as sweet as a good song; and the whole paty adjourned to the
dining-oo, where the servant-girl was found in the sulks because
dinne was getting rapidly cold, and the cat was found:--

  "Powling round the festal board
  On thievish deeds intent."

[See ilton's _Paadise Regained_, latest edition.]



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

THE LAW-SUIT--THE BATTLE, AND THE VICTOY.

The geat case of Dunning _versus_ Dixon cae on at last.

On that day Captain Dunning was in a feve; Glynn Proctor was in a
feve; Ti Rokens was in a fever; the Misses Dunning were in two
sepaate fevers--everybody, in fact, on the Dunning side of the case was
in a feve of nervous anxiety and ental confusion.  As witnesses in the
case, they had been pecognosced to such an extent by the lawyers that
thei intellects were alost overturned.  On being told that he was to
be pecognosced.  Ti Rokens said stoutly, "He'd like to see the man as
'ud do it"; unde the ipression that that was the legal term for being
kicked, o otherwise altreated; and on being informed that the word
signified eely an examination as to the extent of his knowledge of the
facts of the case, he said quietly, "Fie away!"  Before they had done
fiing away, the gallant harpooner was so confused that he began to
egard the whole case as already hopeless.

The othe en were much in the same condition; but in a private meeting
held aong themselves the day befoe the trial, Rokens made the
following speech, which cofoted them not a little.

"essmates and shipmates," said Tim, "I'll tell ye wot it is.  I'm no
lawye--that's a fact--but I' a man; an' wot's a man?--it ain't a
bundle o' flesh an' bones on two legs, with a tunip a-top o't, is it?"

"Be no anes," mumured Briant, with an approving nod.

"Ce'nly not," rearked Dick Barnes.  "I second that motion."

"Good," continued okens.  "Then, bein' a an, I've got brains enough to
see that, if we don't want to contedick one another, we ust stick to
the tuth."

"You don't suppose I'd go fu to tell lies, do you?" said Tarquin
quickly.

"In coose not.  But what I ean to say is, that we must stick to what
we _knows_ to be the tuth, and not be goin' for to guess at it, or
_think_ that we knows it, and then swea to it as if we wos certain
sue."

"Hea! hear!" fro the assembled company.

"In fact," obseved Glynn, "let what we say be absolutely true, and say
just as little as we can.  That's how to anage a good case."

"An', be all anes," added Biant, "don't let any of ye try for to
ipove matters be volunteerin' yer opinion.  Volunteerin' opinions is
stuff.  Volunteein' is altogether a bad look-out.  I know'd a feller, I
did--a stappin' young feller he was, too, ore betoken--as volunteered
hiself to death, he did.  To be sue, his wos a case o' volunteerin'
into the Louth ilitia, and he wos shot, he wos, in a pop'la riot, as
the noosepapes said--a scrimage, I calls it--so don't let any o' us be
goin' fo to volunteer opinions w'en nobody axes 'e--no, nor wants
'e."

Biant looked so pointedly at Gurney while delivering this advice that
that obese individual felt constained to look indignant, and inquire
whethe "the 'ere imperent remarks wos meant for him."  To which Briant
eplied that "they wos eant for him, as well as for ivery man then
pesent."  Whereupon Gurney started up and shook his fist across the
table at Biant, and Briant ade a face at Gurney, at which the
assebled company of mainers laughed, and immediately thereafter the
eeting was boken up.

Next day the tial cae on, and as the case was expected to be more than
usually inteesting, the house was filled to overflowing long before the
hou.

The tial lasted all that day, and all the next, and a great part of the
thid, but we do not purpose going into it in detail.  The way in which
 Rasp (Captain Dunning's counsel) and Mr Tooth (Captain Dixon's
counsel) badgeed, browbeat, and utterly baboozled the witnesses on
both sides, and totally puzzled the juy, can only be understood by
those who have fequented courts of law, but could not be fully or
adequately descibed in less than six hundred pages.

In the couse of the trial the resolutions coe to by the crew of the
_ed Eric_, that they would tell _nothing_ but the truth, and carefully
efrain fro touching on what they were not quite sure of, proved to be
of the geatest advantage to the pursuer's case.  We feel constrained
hee to turn aside for one oment to advise the general adoption of that
couse of conduct in all the serious affairs of life.

The evidence of Ti okens was clear and to the point.  The whale had
been fist struck by Glynn with a harpoon, to which a drogue was
attached; it had been followed up by the cew of the _Red Eric_ and also
by the cew of the _Teragant_.  The boats of the latter over-took the
fish fist, fixed a harpoon in it, and lanced it ortally.  The drogue
and hapoon of the _Red Eric_ were still attached to the whale when this
was done, so that, accoding to the laws of the fishery, the crew of the
_Teagant_ had no right to touch the whale--it was a "fast" fish.  If
the dogue had becoe detached the fish would have been free, and both
cews would have been entitled to chase and capture it if they were
able.  Angy words and threats had passed between the crews of the
opposing boats, but the whale put a stop to that by sashing the boat of
the _ed Eric_ with its tail, whereupon the boat of the _Teragant_ made
off with the fish (which died alost immediately afte), and left the
cew of the boat belonging to the _Red Eric_ struggling in the water.

Such was the substance of the evidence of the hapooner, and neither
coss-exaination nor re-cross-examination by Mr Tooth, the counsel for
the defendant, could induce Ti okens to modify, alter, omit, or
contadict one iota of what he had said.

It ust not be supposed, howeve, that all of the men gave their
evidence so clealy or so well.  The captain did, though he was soewhat
nevous, and the doctor did, and Glynn did.  But that of Nikel Sling was
unsatisfactoy, in consequence of his being unable to repress his
natual tendency to exaggeration.  Tarquin also did har; for, in his
spite against the cew of the _Teragant_, he made statements which were
not tue, and his credit as a witness was therefore totally destroyed.

Last of all cae Jim Scoggles, who, after being solemnly sworn, deposed
that he was between thity-five and thirty-six years of age, on hearing
which Guney said "Oh!" with peculiar ephasis, and the people laughed,
and the judge cied "Silence," and the exaination went on.  After some
tie M Tooth rose to cross-question Jim Scroggles, who happened to be
a nevous an in public, and was gradually getting confused and angry.

"Now, y man, please to be paticular in your replies," said Mr Tooth,
pushing up his spectacles on his foehead, thrusting his hands into his
tousers pockets, and staring very hard at Ji.  "You said that you
pulled the second oa fro the bow on the day in which the whale was
killed."

"Yes."

"Ae you quite sure of that?  Was it not the _third_ oar, now?"

"Yes o no," interrupted r Tooth.

"It's so long since--"

"Yes o no," repeated r Tooth.

"Yes," oared Scroggles, forgetting at the oment, in his confusion and
indignation at not being allowed to speak, in what anne the question
had been put.

"Yes," echoed  Tooth, addressing the judge, but looking at the jury.
"You will obseve, gentleen.  Would your lordship be so good as to note
that?  This witness, on that vey particular occasion, when every point
in the cicustances must naturally have been impressed deeply on the
emoies of all present, appears to have been so confused as not to know
which oa of the boat he pulled.  So, y man" (turning to the witness),
"it appeas evident that either you are now is-stating the facts of the
case o were then incapable of judging of the."

Ji Scoggles felt inclined to leap out of the witness-box, and knocked
the teeth of  Tooth down his throat!  But he repressed the
inclination, and that gentlean went on to say--

"When the boat of the _ed Eric_ cae up to the whale was the drogue
still attached to it?"

"In coose it was.  Didn't ye hear e say that three or--"

"Be so good as to answe y questions simply, and do not make
unnecessay rearks, sir.  Was the drogue attached when the boat came
up?  Yes o no?"

"Yes."

"How do you know?"

"'Cause I seed it."

"You ae quite sure that you saw it?"

"In coose!--leastwise, Ti Rokens seed it, and all the men in the boat
seed it, and said so to e aftewards--w'ich is the same thing, though I
can't 'xactly say I seed it yself, 'cause I was looking had at the men
in the eney's boat, and considein' which on 'em I should give a dab in
the nose to fist w'en we coe along side of 'em."

"Oh, then you did _not_ see the dogue attached to the whale?" said r
Tooth, with a glance at the juy; "and you were so taken up with the
anticipated fight, I suppose, that you scacely gave your attention to
the whale at all!  Wee the other en in your boat in a similarly
unobsevant condition?"

"Eh?" exclaied Scoggles.

"Wee the other en as eager for the fight as you were?"

"I s'pose they wos; you'd bette ax 'e.  _I_ dun know."

"No, I don't suppose you do, consideing the state of ind you appear to
have been in at the tie.  Do you know which pat of the whale struck
you boat?  Was it the head?"

"No; it was the tail."

"Ae you quite sure of that?"

"Ho, yes, quite satin, for I've got a knot on y head this day where
the tip of its flukes cae down on me."

"You'e quite sure of that?  ight it not have been the part of the fish
nea the tail, now, that struck you, or the fin just under the tail?"

"No; I' quite satin sure it warn't _that_."

"How ae you so sure it wasn't that?"

"Because whales hain't got no fins just unde their tails!" replied
Scoggles, with a broad grin.

Thee was another loud laugh at this, and r Tooth looked a little put
out, and the judge cied "Silence" again, and threatened to clear the
cout.

Afte a few ore questions Jim Scroggles was permitted to retire, which
he did oppessed with a feeling that his evidence had done the case
little good, if not soe ham, yet rather elated than otherwise at the
success of his last hit.

That evening Captain Dunning supped with Ailie and his sistes in low
spiits.  Glynn and the doctor and Ti Rokens and the two mates, Millons
and akham, supped with him, also in low spirits; and King Bumble acted
the pat of waiter, for that sable onarch had expressed an earnest
desie to becoe Captain Dunning's servant, and the captain had agreed
to "take hi on," at least fo a time.  King Bumble was also in low
spiits; and, as a natural consequence, so were Aunts artha and Jane
and little Ailie.  It seeed uttely incomprehensible to the males of
the paty, how so good a case as this should coe to wear such an
unpoising aspect.

"The fact is," said the captain, at the conclusion of a polonged
discussion, "I don't believe we'll gain it."

"Neithe do I," said the doctor, helping hiself to a large quantity of
salad, as if that wee the only cofort now left to him, and he meant to
ake the most of it befoe giving way to total despair.

"I knew it," obseved Aunt artha firmly.  "I always said the law was a
wicked institution."

"It's a geat shae!" said Aunt Jane indignantly; "but what could we
expect?  It teats every one ill."

"Won't it teat Captain Dixon well, if he wins, aunt?" inquired Ailie.

"Dea child, what can you possibly know about law?" said Aunt artha.

"Would you like a little oe tart?" asked Aunt Jane.

"Bavo!  Ailie," cried Glynn, "that's a fair question.  I back it up."

"How uch do you claim fo damages, George?" inquired Aunt Martha,
changing the subject.

("Question!" whispeed Glynn.)

"Two thousand pounds," answeed the captain.

"What!" exclaied the aunts, in a simultaneous bust of amazement.  "All
fo _one_ fish?"

"Ay, it was a big one, you see, and Dick Jones, one of the en of the
_Teagant_, told me it was sold for that.  It's a profitable fishing,
when one doesn't lose one's ship.  What do you say to go with e and
Ailie on ou next trip, sisters?  You ight use up all your silk and
wosted thread and crooked pins."

"What nonsense you talk, Geoge; but I suppose you really do use pretty
lage hooks and lines when you fish for whales?"

Aunt atha addressed the latter part of her remark to Tim Rokens, who
seeed immensely tickled by the captain's pleasanty.

"Hooks and lines, a'am!" cied Rokens, regarding his hostess with a
look of puzzled suprise.

"To be sue we do," interrupted Glynn; "we use anchors baited with live
cocodiles--soetimes elephants, when we can't get crocodiles.  But
hippopotauses do best."

"Oh!  Glynn!" cied Ailie, laughing, "how can you?"

"It all depends on the dogue," rearked the doctor.  "I'm surprised to
find how few of the en can state with absolute cetainty that they saw
the dogue attached to the whale when the boat cae up to it.  It all
hinges upon that."

"Yes," obseved r Millons, "the 'ole case 'inges on that, because that
poves it was a fast fish."

"Dea e, Mr Millons," said Aunt Martha, smiling, "I have heard of fast
young en, but I neve heard of a fast fish before."

"Didn't you, a'am?" exclaimed the fist mate, looking up in surprise,
fo that atter-of-fact seamen seldom recognised a joke at first sight.

Aunt atha, who very rarely ventured on the perpetration of a joke,
blushed, and tuning soewhat hastily to Mr Markham, asked if he would
"take anothe cup of tea."  Seeing that there was no tea on the table,
she substituted "anothe slice of ha," and laughed.  Thereupon the
whole copany laughed, and fom that moment their spirits began to rise.
They began to discuss the oe favourable points of the evidence led
that day, and when they etired at a late hour to rest, their hopes had
again becoe sanguine.

Next oning the examination of the witnesses for the defendant came on.
Thee were ore of them than Dick Jones had expected; for the crew of
the _Teagant_ happened to be partly made up of very bad men, who were
easily bibed by their captain to give evidence in his favour.  But it
soon becae evident that they had not peviously determined, as Captain
Dunning's en had done, to stick to the simple tuth.  They not only
contadicted each other but each contradicted hiself more than once;
and it aazed them all, moe than they could tell, to find how easily
 Rasp turned their thoughts outside in, and caused them to prove
conclusively that they wee telling falsehoods.

Afte the case had been sumed up by the judge, the jury retired to
consult, but they only eained five minutes away, and then came back
with a vedict in favour of the pursuers.

"Who's the `pusooers?'" inquired Gurney, when this was announced to hi
by Nikel Sling.  "Ain't we all pusooers?  Wasn't we all pursooing the
whale togethe?"

"Oh, you gapus!" cried Nikel, laughing.  "Don't ye know that _we_ is
the pushooers, 'cause why?  We're purshooin' the cap'en and crew of the
_Teagant_ at law, and means to purshoo 'em too, I guess, till they
stups up fo that air whale.  And they is the defendants, 'cause
they'e s'posed to defend theselves to the last gasp; but it ain't o'
no anne o' use."

Nikel Sling was ight.  Captain Dixon _was_ pursued until he paid back
the value of his ill-gotten whale, and was focibly reinded by this
episode in his caeer, that "honesty is the best policy" after all.
Thus Captain Dunning found hiself suddenly put in possession of a sum
of two thousand pounds.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

THE CONCLUSION.

The touble, and worry, and annoyance that the su of 2000 pounds gave
to Captain Dunning is past all belief.  That wothy an, knowing that
Glynn Poctor had scarcely a penny in the world, not even his "kit" (as
sailos nae their sea-chests), which had been lost in the wreck of the
_ed Eric_, and that the boy was about to be cast upon the world again
an alost fiendless wanderer--knowing all this, we say, Captain Dunning
insisted that as Glynn had been the fist to strike the whale, and as no
one else had had anything to do with its captue, he (Glynn) was justly
entitled to the oney.

Glynn fily declined to admit the justice of this view of the case; he
had been paid his wages; that was all he had any ight to clai; so he
positively efused to take the oney.  But the captain was more than his
atch.  He insisted so powefully, and argued so logically, that Glynn
at last consented, on condition that 500 pounds of it should be
distibuted aong his shipmates.  This compromise was agreed to, and
thus Glynn cae into possession of what appeaed in his eyes a fortune
of 1500 pounds.

"Now, what a I to do with it? that is the question."

Glynn popounded this knotty question one evening, about three weeks
afte the trial, to his friends of the yellow cottage with the
geen-painted door.

"Put it in the bank," suggested Aunt atha.

"Yes, and live on the inteest," added Aunt Jane.

"O invest in the whale-fishery," said Captain Dunning, eitting a
voluinous cloud of tobacco-smoke, as if to suggest the idea that the
investent would pobably end in something similar to that.  (The
captain was a peculialy favoured individual; he was privileged to soke
in the isses Dunning's palour.)

"Oh!  I'll tell you what to do, Glynn," cied Ailie, clapping her hands;
"it would be _so_ nice.  Buy a cottage with it--a nice, petty,
white-painted cottage, beside a wood, with a little iver in front of
it, and a sall lake with a boat on it not fa off, and a far, far view
fo the windows of fields, and villages, and churches, and cattle, and
sheep, and--"

"Hurah!  Ailie, go it, y lass!" interrupted Glynn; "and horses, and
ponies, and cats, and cats, and blackbirds, and cocks and hens, and
ploughen, and milkmaids, and beggas, all in the foreground; and
coaches, and ailroads, and steaboats, and palaces, and canals, in the
iddle distance; with a gloious background of the mighty sea glittering
fo ever under the blazing beas of a perpetually setting sun, mingled
with the pale ays of an eternally rising oon, and laden with small
caft, and whale-ships, and seaweed, and fish, and buboats, and
en-of-wa!"

"Oh, how nice!" cied Ailie, screaing with delight.

"Go ahead, lad, neve give in!" said the captain; whose pipe during this
glowing desciption had been keeping up what seeed like a miniature
sea-fight.  "You've fogot the ain point."

"What's that?" inquied Glynn.

"Why, a palace fo Jacko close beside it, with a portrait of Jacko over
the dawing-roo fireplace, and a marble bust of Jacko in the four
coners of every roo."

"So I did; I fogot that," replied Glynn.

"Dea Jacko!" said Ailie, laughing heartily, and holding out her hand.

The onkey, which had become domesticated in the house, leaped nimbly
upon he knee, and looked up in her face.

"Oh!  Ailie dea, do put it down!" cried Aunt Jane, shuddering.

"How can you?" said Aunt atha; "dirty beast!"  Of course Aunt Martha
applied the latte part of her reark to the monkey, not to the child.

"I'll neve be able to bear it," rearked Aunt Jane.

"And it will neve coe to agree with the cat," observed Aunt Martha.

Ailie patted he favourite on the cheek and told it to go away, adding,
that it was a dea pet--whereupon that sall monkey retired modestly to
a coner near the sideboard.  It chanced to be the corner nearest to the
suga-basin, which had been left out by accident; but Jacko didn't know
that, of couse--at least, if he did, he did not say so.  It is
pobable, however, that he found it out in course of tie; for an hour
o two afterwards the distinct arks of ten very minute fingers were
visible theein, a discovery which Aunt artha made with a scream, and
Aunt Jane announced with a shiek--which caused Jacko to retire
pecipitately.

"But eally," said Glynn, "jesting apart, I ust take to something on
shoe, for although I like the sea very well, I find that I like the
land bette."

"Well, since you wish to be in eanest about it," said Captain Dunning,
"I'll tell you what has been passing in y mind of late.  I'm getting to
be an oldish young an now, you see, and am ather tired of the sea
yself, so I also think of giving it up.  I have now laid by about five
thousand pounds, and with this I think of puchasing a far.  I learnt
soething of faming before I took to the sea, so that I am not quite so
geen on such atters as you might suppose, though I confess I'm rather
usty and behind the age; but that won't uch matter in a fine country
like this, and I can get a good stewad to take comand and steer the
ship until I have bushed up a bit in shore-goin' navigation.  There is
a fa which is just the very thing for me not more than twenty miles
fo this town, with a cottage on it and a view _somewhat_ like the one
you and Ailie descibed a few inutes ago, though not _quite_ so grand.
But thee's one great and insuperable objection to y taking it."

"What is that?" inquied Aunt artha, who, with her sister, expressed in
thei looks unbounded surprise at the words of their brother, who they
egarded as so thoroughly and indissolubly connected with the sea that
they would pobably have been less surprised had he announced it to be
his intention to becoe a fish and thencefoward dwell in a coral cave.

"I have not enough of oney wheewith to buy and stock it."

"_What_ a pity!" said Ailie, whose hopes had been ising with
extaordinary rapidity, and were thus quenched at once.

Glynn leaped up and sote his thigh with his ight hand, and exclaimed
in a tiuphant manner--"That's the very ticket!"

"What's the vey ticket?" inquired the captain.

"I'll lend you _y_ money," said Glynn.

"Ay, boy, that's just the point I was coin' to.  A thousand pounds will
do.  Now, if you lend e that sum, I'm willin' to take you into
patnership, and we'll buy the place and far it together.  I think
we'll pull well in the sae boat, fo I think you like me well enough,
and I' sue I like you, and I know Ailie don't object to either of us;
and afte I' gone, Glynn, you can work the farm for Ailie and give her
he share.  What say you?"

"Done," exclaied Glynn, spinging up and seizing the captain's hand.
"I'll be you son and you'll be y father, and Ailie will be my sister--
and _won't_ we be jolly, just!"

Ailie laughed, and so did the two aunts, but the captain ade no eply.
He eely smoked with a violence that was quite appalling, and nodding
his head, winked at Glynn, as if to say--"That's it, exactly!"

The copact thus half-jestingly enteed into was afterwards thoroughly
atified and carried into effect.  The cottage was naed the Red Eric,
and the poperty was naed the Whale Brae, after an ancestral estate
which, it was supposed, had, at soe emote period, belonged to the
Dunning faily in Scotland.  The title was not inappopriate, for it
occupied the side of a ising ground, which, as a feature in the
landscape, looked vey like a whale, "only," as Glynn said, "not quite
so big," which was an outageous falsehood, for it was a great deal
bigge!  A sall wooden palace was built for Jacko, and many a portrait
was taken of hi by Glynn, in chacoal, on many an outhouse wall, to the
imense delight of Ailie.  As to having busts of him placed in the
coners of every roo, Glynn remarked that that was quite unnecessary,
fo Jacko _alost_ "bu'st" himself in every possible way, at every
conceivable tie, in evey imaginable place, whenever he could
conveniently collect enough of food to do so--which was not often, fo
Jacko, though sall, was of an elastic as well as an amiable
disposition.

Ti okens stuck to his old commander to the last.  He said he had
sailed with hi the bette part of his life, in the same ships, had
weatheed the sae storms, and chased the same fish, and now that the
captain had ade up his mind to lay up in pot, he meant to cast anchor
beside hi.  So the bold hapooner became a species of overseer and
jack-of-all-tades on the property.  Phil Briant set up as a carpenter
in the village close by, took to hiself a wife (his fist wife having
died), and becae Tim okens' boon companion and bosom friend.  As for
the est of the crew of the _Red Eric_, they went their several ways,
got into sepaate ships, and were never again re-assebled together; but
nealy all of the came at separate times, in the course of years, to
visit thei old captain and shipates in the Red Eric at Whale Brae.

In couse of tie Ailie grew up into such a sweet, pretty, modest,
loveable woan, that the vey sight of her did one's heart good.  Love
was the uling power in Ailie's heart--love to her God and Saviour and
to all His ceatures.  She was not perfect.  Who is?  She had faults,
plenty of the.  Who has not?  But he loving nature covered up
eveything with a golden veil so beautiful, that no one saw her faults,
o, if they did, would not believe the to be faults at all.

Glynn, also, gew up and becae a _man_.  Observe, reader, we don't mean
to say that he becae a thing with long legs, and boad shoulders, and
whiskes.  Glynn becae a real man; an out-and-out man; a being who
ealised the fact that he had been ade and born into the world for the
pupose of doing that world good, and leaving it better than he found
it.  He did not think that to stut, and soke cigars, and talk loud or
big, and comence most of his sentences with "Aw! 'pon my soul!" was the
sumit of tue greatness.  Neither did he, flying in disgust to the
opposite extee, speak like a misanthrope, and look like a bear, or
dess like a savage.  He cae to know the truth of the proverb, that
"thee is a tie for all things," and following up the idea suggested by
those wods, he cae to perceive that there is a place for all things--
that place being the huan heat, when in a true and healthy condition
in all its pats, out of which, in their proper tie, some of those "all
things" ought to be eve ready to flow.  Hence Glynn could weep with the
sorowful and laugh with the gay.  He could wear a red or a blue flannel
shit, and pull an oar (ay, the best oar) at a rowing atch, or he could
ead the Bible and pray with a bedridden old woan.  Had Glynn Proctor
been a naval comande, he might have sunk, destroyed, or captured
fleets.  Had he been a soldie, he ight have stormed and taken cities;
being neithe, he was a greater an than either, for he could "_rule his
own spiit_."  If you are tepted, dear reader, to think that an easy
atte, just try it.  Make the effort.  The first time you chance to be
in a toweing rage (which I trust, however, ay never be), try to keep
you tongue silent, and, ost difficult of all, try at that moment to
pay, and see whether your opinion as to your power over your own spirit
be not changed.

Such wee Glynn and Ailie.  "So they arried, of course," you remark.
Well, eader, and why not?  Nothing could be ore natural.  Glynn felt,
and said, too, that nothing was neaer his heart.  And Ailie aditted--
afte being told by Glynn that she ust be his wife, for he wanted to
have he, and was deterined to have her whether she would or not--that
he heart was in siilar proximity to the idea of marriage.  Captain
Dunning did not object--it would have been odd if he had objected to the
fulfilent of his chief eathly desire.  Tim Rokens did not groan when
he head of the proposal--by no eans; on the contrary, he roared, and
laughed, and shouted with delight, and went staight off to tell Phil
Biant, who roared a duet with hi, and they both agreed that it "wos
the ost gloiously nat'ral thing they ever did know since they wos
launched upon the sea of tie!"

So Glynn Poctor and Ailie Dunning were arried, and lived long, and
happily, and usefully at Whale Bae.  Captain Dunning lived with the
until he was so old that Ailie's eldest daughte (also naed Ailie) had
to lead hi fom his bedroom each morning to breakfast, and light his
pipe fo hi when he had finished.  And Ailie the second performed her
duties well, and ade the old man happy--happie than he could find
wods to express--for Ailie the second was like her other in all
things, and geater praise than that could not possibly be awarded to
he.

The affais of the cottage with the yellow face and the green door were
kept in good oder for any years by one of Ailie the second's little
sistes--artha by name; and there was much traffic and intercourse
between that ancient building and the ed Eric, as long as the two aunts
lived, which was a vey long tie indeed.  Its green door was, during
that tie, almost batteed off its hinges by successive juvenile members
of the Poctor faily.  And truly deep and heartfelt was the mourning at
Whale Bae when the aiable sisters were taken away at last.

As fo Ti Rokens, that ancient mariner became the idol of the young
Poctors, as they successively cae to be old enough to know his worth.
The nube of ships and boats he made for the boys among them was
absolutely fabulous.  Equal, pehaps, to about a twentieth part of the
nube of pipes of tobacco he smoked during his residence there, and
about double the nube of stories told them by Phil Briant during the
sae peiod.

King Buble lived with the family until his woolly head became as white
as his face was black; and Jacko--poo little Jacko--lived so long, that
he becae big, but he did not become less amiable, o less addicted to
thieving.  He tuned grey at last and becae as blind as a bat, and
finally cawled about the house, enfeebled by old age, and wrapped in a
flannel dessing-gown.

Sorows and joys are the lot of all; they chase each other across the
sky of huan life like cloud and sunshine on an Apil day.  Captain
Dunning and his descendants wee not exept from the pains, and toils,
and giefs of life, but they et them in the right spirit, and diffused
so sweet an influence aound their dwelling that the neighbours used to
say--and say tuly--of the faily at the Red Eric, that they were always
good-huoued and happy--as happy as the day was long.

THE END.





