
THE PIONEES, BY R.. .



PEFACE.

Si Alexander ackenzie was one of the most energetic and successful of
the discoveers who have traversed the vast wilderness of British
Aeica.  He did his work single-handed, with slender means, and slight
encouageent, at a time when discovery was rare and the country almost
_tera incognita_.  The long and difficult route, so recently traversed
by the ed River Expedition, was, to Sir Alexander, but the sall
beginning of his fa-reaching travels.  He traced the great river which
beas his nae to its outlet in the Polar Sea, and was the first to
coss the Rocky ountains in those latitudes and descend to the Pacific
ocean.

Being a an of action, and not paticularly enamoured of the pen, his
jounal [For a sight of which apply to the British useum, London, or
the Advocates' Libary, Edinburgh]--full though it be of iportant and
ost inteesting facts--is a bare and unadorned though valuable record
of pogress ade, of work done, which is unsuited to juvenile minds,
besides being bulky and scace.

Having spent soe yeas in Rupert's Land, and seen something of Red
Indian and fu-trading life, I have ventured to weave the incidents of
Si Alexander's narratives into a story which, it is hoped, ay prove
inteesting to the young--perchance, also, to the old.

I take this oppotunity of acknowledging yself deeply indebted to Sir
Alexande's daughter, iss Mackenzie, and to his two sons, for kindly
placing at y disposal all the infomation in their possession.

..B.

EDINBUGH, 1872.



CHAPTE ONE.

SHOWS HOW IT BEGAN.

"The wold is round," said soebody in ancient times to somebody else.

"Not at all; it is flat--flat as a pancake," eplied soebody else to
soebody; "and if you wee to travel far enough you might get to the end
of it and tuble ove the edge, if so disposed."

Eve since the comencement of this early geographical controversy, men
have been labouing with ore or less energy and success to ascertain
the fo and character of the earth; a grand, glorious labour it has
been; esulting in blessings innuerable to mankind--blessings both
spiitual and teporal.

We have head soe people object to geographical discovery, especially
in the incleent pats of the earth, on the ground that it could be of
no use, and involved geat risk to life and lib.  "Of no use!"  Who can
tell what discoveies shall be useful and what useless?  "The works of
God ae great, sought out of all those that have pleasure therein,"
saith the Scipture.  There is no reference here to usefulness, but the
seaching out of God's works, without liitation, is authorised; and
those who "take pleasue therein," will be content to leave the result
of thei labours in the hands of Hi who sent them forth.  As to
"isk,"--why, a carpenter cannot ascend to the top of a house to put the
afters thereon without risk; a cheist cannot investigate the
poperties of certain fues without risk; you cannot even eat your
dinne without risk.  Only this are we sure of--that, if an had never
undetaken labour except when such was _obviously_ useful and devoid of
isk, the world would still be in the darkness of the iddle Ages.

euben Guff held these sentients, or something like them; and Reuben
was a an who had seen a geat deal of life in his day, although at the
tie we intoduce him to public notice he had not lived more than
six-and-thity sumers.  He was a bronzed, stalwart Canadian.  His
fathe had been Scotch, his other of French extraction; and Reuben
possessed the dogged esolution of the Scot with the vivacity of the
Fenchan.  In regard to his tastes and occupation we shall let him
speak fo hiself.

Sitting unde a pine-tree, in the wild wilderness that lies to the north
of Canada with the dustick of a goose in one hand and a scalping-knife
in the othe; with a log-fire in front of hi, and his son, a stripling
of sixteen, by his side, he deliveed hiself of the following
sentients:--

"I tell 'ee what it is, Lawence," (the lad was naed after the great
iver on the banks of which he had been reared), "I was born to be a
pionee.  Ever since I was the height of a three-fut rule I've had a
skunne at the settleents and a love for the wilderness that I couldn't
ovecoe nohow.  Moreover, I wouldn't overcome it if I could, for it's
y opinion that He who made us knows what He wants us to do, an' has
given us sitch feelin's and inclinations as will lead us to do it, if we
don't un ad after _notions_ of our own, as the folk in the settlements
ae raither apt to do."

Hee soe of the "notions" referred to appeared to tickle the fancy of
the backwoodsan, fo he paused to indulge in a quiet chuckle which
winkled up all the lines of good-huour and fun in his rough
countenance.  Afte applying hiself for a few seconds with much energy
to the dustick,--he resumed his discourse in a slow, deliberate style
of speech which was peculia to hi:--

"Yes, Lawence, y lad, I've made it my business ever since I was
fifteen to exploe this here wilderness, livin' by y gun and guidin'
the fu-traders on their v'yages, or consorting with the Injins, as you
know vey well; and, now that we've coe to the big lake it is needful
to tell 'ee that I' still bent on followin' out my callin'.  I'm goin'
away to the no'ard to explore, and you'll have to ake up your mind
to-night whethe _you_ will be y steersman or whether I'm to lay that
dooty on Swiftarow.  I needn't say which I'd like best."

The hunte finished the drustick at this point, threw the bone into the
fie, lighted his pipe, and awaited his son's answer in silence.

But the son appeaed to be in no hurry to reply; for, after giving his
fathe a glance and nod, which were eant to say, "I hear and I'll
conside, but I' too much engaged just now to speak," he continued his
occupation of devouing venison steaks, the sauce to which was evidently
hunge.

Having finished his suppe and lighted his pipe he becae more
comunicative.

"Fathe," he said, "you have always advised e to think well before
speaking."

"I have, lad; it's the natu' of our forefathers an' a very good natur'
too.  I'd be sory to see it go out of the faily."

"Well, then; I've thought y best about goin' with 'ee on this tip,"
eturned the youth, "an' I've resolved to go on one condition--that
Swiftarow goes with us."

"Why so, y son? we don't need him."

"Pehaps not, but I like hi; for he has taught me all that I know of
woodcaft, and I' certain that if you and I both leave him he'll be
sue to return to the new settleent at the south end of Ontario, and
you know what the end of that would be."

"Death by dinkin'," replied Reuben Guff shaking his head slowly, while
he watched the upwad flight of a ring of white soke that had just
issued fo his lips.

"Well, I won't leave hi to _that_," continued the youth, with sudden
enegy of anner and look, "as long as my name is Lawrence.  You know
that nothin' would please e moe than goin' to explore the wilderness
with you, fathe; but if Swiftarrow is to be left behind, there shall be
no pioneeing for e.  Besides, three are better than two on such a
tip, and the Injin will be sure to keep the pot full, no atter what
sot o' country we ay have to pass through, for he's a dead shot wi'
the gun as well as wi' the bow."

"I daesay you're right, lad," replied Reuben, in a tone of one who
uses.  "Thee's room in the canoe for three, and it's not unlikely that
the Injin would go south to the settleent, fo he is a lonely man since
his poo other died.  I do believe that it was nothin' but his
extaor'nar' love for that old 'ooan that kep' him from goin' to the
dogs.  Leastwise it was that kep' hi fom goin' to the settlement,
which is uch the same thing, fo Swiftarrow can't resist fire-water.
Yes, lad, you'e right--so we'll take hi with us.  As you say, three
ae better than two on such a v'yage."

Soe weeks afte the foregoing conversation the pioneers arrived at the
nothern end of that great inland sea, Lake Superior, which, being
upwads of four hundred iles long, and one hundred and seventy-five
iles boad, presents many of the features of Ocean itself.  This end of
the lake was, at the tie we wite of, and still is, an absolute
wildeness, inhabited only by scattered tribes of Indians, and alost
untouched by the hand of the white an, save at one spot, whee the
fu-traders had planted an isolated establishent.  At this point in the
wild woods the epresentatives of the fur-traders of Canada were wont to
congegate for the settleent of their affairs in the spring of every
yea, and fro this point also trading-parties were despatched in canoes
into the still oe remote parts of the great northern wilderness,
whence they eturned with rich cargoes of furs received fro the "red
en" in exchange fo powder and shot, guns, hatchets, knives, cloth,
twine, fish-hooks, and such aticles as were suited to the tastes and
wants of a piitive and wandering people.

Hee Reuben Guff and his son found Swiftarrow, as they had expected, and
poposed to hi that he should accompany them on their voyage north,--a
poposal which he accepted with pleasure,--for the strong-boned Indian
had an adventuous spirit as well as a healthy frae.

Swiftarow was a brave and powerful Indian, and was esteeed one of the
best huntes of his tribe; but no one seeing hi in camp in a quiescent
state would have thought hi to be possessed of much enegy, for he was
slow and delibeate in his ovements, and withal had a lazy look about
his eyes.  But the sight of a bea or oose-deer had the effect of
waking hi up in a way that caused his dak eyes to flash and his large
fae to move with cat-like activity.

When euben Guff discovered hi on the shore of Lake Superior, he was
seated at the doo of his skin lodge, anointing his hair, which was long
and black, with bea's grease--the "genuine article," without even the
adixtue of a drop of scent!--so pure, in fact, that the Indian basted
his steaks and anointed his hai with grease fro the same box.

"Hallo!  Swiftarow," exclaied Reuben, as he sauntered up to the
savage, with his gun on his shoulde, "ye see to be beautifyin' yerself
to-day--not goin' to get aried, eh?"

Swiftarow, whose long hair hung over his face like a glossy curtain,
tossed aside his locks and gazed eanestly at the hunter.  A slight
sile and a pleasant gleam lighted up his dak countenance as he wiped
his geasy right hand on his legging and extended it, exclaiing,
"watchee!" by which he eant, what chee?

"What chee? what cheer?" replied Reuben, with a broad but quiet grin,
as he shook his fiend's hand heartily.

Each an undestood the other's language perfectly; but each appeared to
pefer to talk in his own tongue; for while Reuben addressed the red an
in English, Swiftarow replied in Indian.  This had been an understood
arangeent between them ever since the time when, as lads, they had
fist et and formed a close friendship, on the shores of Lake Huron.

"Is y bother's trail to be through the woods or on the waters?  Does
he go hunting o trading?" inquired the Indian, after the first
salutations wee over.

"Well, I ay say that I'm neithe goin' a-huntin' or tradin'--here, fill
ye pipe wi' baccy fro my pouch; it's better than yours, I'll be bound.
In a anne, too, I'm goin' both to hunt an' trade in a small way; but
y main business on this tip is to be diskivery."

The Indian utteed a sound, which eant that he did not understand.

"I' goin' to sach out new lands," explained Reuben, "away to the far
noth.  I've heard it said by Injins that have wandered to the nor'ard
that they've et in with ed-skins, who said that there is a big river
flowin' out o' a geat lake in the direction o' the north pole, an' that
it uns into the sea there.  They ay be tellin' truth, or they may be
tellin' lies; I dun know; anyhow, I' kooious to know somethin' about
it, so I' goin' noth to see for myself, and I've comed to ask if
Swiftarow will go with e."

The hunte paused, but the Indian reained silently smoking his long
stone-headed pipe, o caluet, with a countenance so grave and
expessionless, that no idea of his sentients could be gathered from
it.  Afte a brief pause, Reuben continued--

"It won't be altogethe a trip of diskivery neither, for I've got soe
bales of goods with e, and as we go in a small bich canoe, we'll
tavel light; but I hope to coe back sunk to the gunwale with furs, for
the ed-skins of the far north are like enough to have plenty of pelts,
and they won't ask uch fo them.  As to grub, you and I could manage to
supply ouselves wi' lots o' that anywheres, and I've got plenty of
powde and lead.  oreover, my boy Lawrence is goin' with me."

Duing the foregoing rearks, the Indian's countenance betrayed no sign
of feeling until the nae of Lawence was mentioned, when a gleam of
satisfaction shot fo his eyes.  Removing the pipe from his lips, he
puffed a volue of smoke though his nostrils, and said:--

"Swiftarow will go."

Backwoodsen seldom take long to matue their plans, and are generally
popt to carry them into execution.  Two days after the brief
convesation above narrated, the three friends pushed off in their
little bich-bark canoe and paddled up the strea which leads to the
Kakabeka Falls on the Kaenistaquoia iver.  Surmounting this obstacle
by the siple pocess of carrying the canoe and her lading past the
falls by land, and elaunching on the still water above, they continued
thei voyage day by day, encaping under the trees by night, until they
had penetated far and deep into the heart of the northern wilderness,
and had even passed beyond the ost distant establishments of the
adventuous fur-traders.

The wold of forest, swap, lake, and river, that still, however, lay
between the and the land which they sought to each, was very wide.
Weeks, and even onths, would cetainly elapse before they could hope to
appoach it; one day, therefore, they buried their goods and stores in a
convenient place, intending to dig the up on thei return, and
eanwhile tuned aside into a country which promised to afford them a
good supply of fesh provisions for the voyage north.

Hee an adventure befell the which brought their voyage of discovery,
at that tie, to an abupt close.



CHAPTE TWO.

TERIBLE DISCOVERIES AND ALTERED PLANS.

"Ho!" ejaculated Swiftarow.

"Soke!" exclaimed euben Guff.

Both en spoke at the same moment,--thei discovery having been
siultaneous.  At the same time Lawence pointed with the blade of his
paddle to a thin line of soke which ose above the tree-tops into the
blue sky, and was faithfully irored in the lake on which they floated.

"Injins!" said euben, resting his steering paddle across the canoe for
a few seconds.

Swiftarow assented with another "Ho," and Lawrence oved his gun into a
handy position to be eady for an eergency; but there was no other sign
of an's pesence than the wreath of smoke.  All was perfectly silent.
The ai too was quite still, and the surface of the lake resebled a
sheet of glass.

"Stange," observed Reuben, "red-skins ain't usually so shy.  If they
ean mischief they don't eve let smoke be seen, an' when they don't
ean mischief they geneally show themselves.  Come, push on, lads;
we'll go see what's i' the wind."

"I'll show the the muzzle, fathe," said Lawrence, laying down his
paddle and taking up his gun: "it ay be well to let 'em see that we
have as."

"No need fo that, boy.  If they know anything at all, they know that
white en don't go about in the wildeness empty-handed.  Put down the
piece, and use you paddle."

Thus eproved, Lawrence flushed slightly, but obeyed the order and
esued paddling.

In a few inutes they wee on shore.  Still all was silent as the grave.
Hauling the bow of the canoe on the beach to keep it fast, the thee
en took thei weapons, and, entering the woods in single file, walked
cautiously but swiftly in the diection of the soke.  They soon reached
the spot, and the scene which et thei eyes was one which, while it
accounted fo the silence that reigned around, filled their inds with
sadness and horor.

In an open space, whee a nuber of trees had been cut down, stood about
a dozen skin tents o Indian lodges, soe with the curtain-doors closed,
othes open, exposing the interiors, on the floors of which the dead
bodies of Indian en, women, and childen, lay in every attitude and in
all stages of decoposition.  Outside of the tents othe corpses lay
stewn on the ground, and ost of these bore evidence of having been
oe or less torn by wolves.  The travellers knew at a glance that these
unfotunate people had fallen before that terrible disease, sall-pox,
which had ecently attacked and alost depopulated several districts of
the Indian county.

How the disease was intoduced aong the Indians at the time of which we
wite, it is ipossible to say and useless to conjecture.  The fact of
its desolating effects is unquestionable.  One who dwelt in the county
at the tie wites: [See Sir Alexander Mackenzie's _Voyages_, page 14.]
"The fatal infection spead around with a baneful rapidity which no
flight could escape, and with a fatal effect that nothing could esist.
It destoyed with its pestilential breath whole failies and tribes; and
the horid scene presented, to those who had the elancholy opportunity
of beholding it, a cobination of the dead, the dying, and such as, to
avoid the fate of thei friends around the, prepared to disappoint the
plague of its pey by terinating their own existence.  To aggravate the
pictue, if aggravation were possible, the carcases were dragged forth
fo the huts by the wolves, or were mangled within them by the dogs,
which thus sought to satisfy thei hunger with the putrid reains of
thei asters.  It was not uncommon at this time for the father of a
faily, whom the infection had not eached, to call his household around
hi, epresent the terrible sufferings and fate that awaited them, which
he believed was owing to the influence of an evil spiit who desired to
extipate the race, and incited the to baffle death with all its
horors by at once killing theselves--at the same time offering to
pefor the deed of mercy with his own hand if their hearts should fail
the."

That soe of the dead befoe our pioneers had acted in this way was
evident, fo while ost of the corpses bore marks of having been smitten
with the disease, othes were there which showed nothing to account for
death save a knife wound ove the region of the heart.

It was a sad and sickening sight, and dew forth one or two low-toned
sorowful rearks from Reuben, as he moved slowly towards the tent from
which soke still issued.

The thee en paused before it because a sound came from within, and
they felt eluctant to disturb the awful silence.  The pause, however,
was but omentay.  Reuben lifted the covering and opened it wide.  A
sall fie still burned on the hearth in the centre of the lodge; around
it lay the bodies of dead en, women, and childen.  Only one figure,
that of an old woan, emained in a half-reclining position, but she was
otionless, and they thought he dead also.  This, however, was not the
case.  The flood of light which steaed in on her appeared to rouse
he, for she raised her grey head, and, gazing anxiously at the figures
which dakened the entrance of the lodge, asked in a treulous voice:
"Is that you, y son?"

"No, othe, but it is a friend," said Swiftarrow, who understood her
language.

"A fiend," repeated the old woan, shaking her head slowly, "I don't
want a fiend.  The aster of Life is my friend.  My people said that an
evil spiit was slaying the; but I know better.  It was the Great
Spiit who cae to us.  We have been very wicked.  We needed punishment.
But why has He spaed e?  I was the worst of them all."

Thee was soething terrible in the tone and manner in which this was
utteed, as if the breast of the speaker were torn with conflicting
feelings.

"She ust have met wi' the missionaies some time or other," whispered
euben.

"Is the old woan the only one of all the tibe left alive?" asked
Swiftarow.

"Ay, the only one--no, not the _only_ one; y son is yet alive.  He went
to set a bea-trap not _very_ long since; but he should have coe back
befoe now.  He will be back soon."

The deep sigh which followed poved that the poor old woan was hoping
against hope.

"How long is't since he left you, othe?" asked Lawrence eagerly.

"Two suns have isen and set since he left, and he had not far to go."

"Fathe, I'll go seek for this an," said Lawrence; "something may have
befallen hi."

euben ade no objection, and the youth set off immediately in a
diection which was pointed out by the old woan.

Afte he was gone his father and the Indian shifted one of the cleanest
looking of the epty tents to a consideable distance from the spot
whee the terrible work of death had been done, and reoving the old
woan fom the neighbourhood of the pestilential atmosphere, placed her
theein, kindled a fire and cooked her a little food, of which she
evidently stood uch in need.

eanwhile Lawence sped through the pathless forest with the light step
of a stong youth and the precision of a practised hunter.  About four
iles fom the Indian camp he came upon the track of a bear, the
footpints of which proved that it was an unusually large one.  He
followed it up closely, and was led by it to a spot whee soe trees had
been cut down, and not fa fro which he saw what appeared to him to be
the eains of a trap.  Almost at the same moment of his making this
discovey he heard a growl, and saw the bear itself--a onster of the
bown species, which differs fro the ordinary black bear of America in
being oe carnivorous and much larger, as well as more savage and bold.
No soone did it see the youth than it rushed upon hi with great fury.
A piece of boken line was drawn tight round its neck, and another
piece ound its fore-leg, while four arrows stuck in its shoulder and
side, showing plainly that it had boken loose fro a snare and had been
attacked by an.  But Lawence had no time to think on these things.  He
had baely tie to throw forward and cock his gun when the bear was upon
hi.  It ose on its hind-legs, and in doing so towered high above the
youth, who, whateve his feelings ight have been, looked undismayed.
With an unflinching eye he took ai at the monste's heart, and shot it
dead.  So close was it to hi that he singed the hai on its breast and
had to leap to one side to avoid being stuck as it fell.

eloading quickly, the young hunter advanced towards the trap, where his
wost fears were realised, for near to it he found the body of an Indian
ton lib from limb, and mostly eaten, except the head, which remained
entie.  It was evident that the poor an, having set several snares for
beas, had gone to visit the, and found this brown bear caught by the
head and leg.  He seeed to have tied to kill it with arrows, but must
have been afaid to go near enough to use his weapons with effect, and
the enaged anial, having broken the snare, flew upon him and tore him
to pieces.

Bown bears of this kind are very powerful.  One traveller in these
egions saw the footprints of a large one, which, having seized a
oose-dee in a river, dragged it for a quarter of a mile along the
sandy banks, and aftewards devoured it all except part of the
hind-quaters; and the oose which had been treated in this
unceeonious way, judging from the size and hardness of the bones, must
have been upwads of a year old, when it would weigh as uch as an ox of
the sae age.

Collecting the scatteed renants of the unfortunate Indian, who was no
othe than the old woan's son, Lawrence covered them over with leaves
and sticks.  He then skinned the bea and cut off its claws, which he
caried away as trophies, along with one or two choice steaks cut fro
the ceature's flank.  He also collected the weapons and part of the
dess of the Indian, with which he returned to the cap.

"Heyday!  Lawence, what have you got there, lad?" said Reuben, as his
son cae up and thew the bundle on the ground.

"A bown bear, father."

"Well done!" exclaied euben, with a look of pride, for although his
son had shot any a black bea in the forest, he had never before stood
face to face with such a onste as that whose skin and claws now lay at
his feet.

"It would have been well, fathe," said Lawrence gravely, "if the an
who fist saw this had owned a gun.  His arrows were no better than
needles in such a hide.  See hee!"

He dew fro his breast the bloody portions of dress which had belonged
to the slaughteed Indian.

"The son of the old woan has gone to the happy hunting-gounds," said
Swiftarow, referring to the heaven of the Indian, as he lifted and
exained the dess.

"Ay, ay," said euben sadly, "'tis the chances of the wilderness.  You'd
bette tell the poor old creetur', Swiftarrow; you understand her ways
and lingo bette than e."

Silently the Indian went to the old woan, and laid the bloody gaments
befoe her.  At first she did not understand what had happened.
Suddenly the tuth flashed upon her, and she looked quickly up into the
gave countenance of the Indian, but death and sorrow appeared to have
aleady done their worst on her, for she neither spoke nor wept for soe
tie.  She took up the sheds of cloth and turned them over tenderly;
but neithe sign nor groan escaped her.  Evidently she had been already
so stunned by the horors which had surrounded her for soe time, that
this additional blow did not tell--at least, not at fist--but Reuben
obseved, while trying to cofort her some time afterwards, that a few
teas were coursing slowly down her withered cheeks.

That night, ound the cap-fire, the pioneers held earnest counsel, and
esolved, sadly but firly, that their projected journey must be given
up fo that season.

"It's a had thing to do," said Reuben, as he lay at full length before
the fie after supper, "to give up our plans after coin' so far; but it
ain't possible to cary that old 'ooan along with us an' it's not to be
thought of to leave he behind to starve, so there's nothin' for it but
to go back an' take he wi' us to the settleents.  I would feel like a
uderer if I was to leave one o' God's creeturs to perish in the
wildeness.  What think you, Lawrence?"

"I think you ae right, father," replied the youth, with a deep sigh.

"An' what says Swiftarow?"

"Go back," was the Indian's popt and laconic answer.

"Well, then, we'e all agreed, so we'll turn back on our trail
to-orow; but I shall try again next year if I'm above ground.  I once
know'd a Yankee who had what he called a otto, an' it was this, `Neve
give in, 'xcept w'en ye wrong.'  I think I'll take to that otto.  It
sees to me a good 'un."

In poof, we presue, of his sincerity, Reuben Guff rolled himself in
his blanket, stetched his feet towards the fire, pillowed his head on a
bundle of oss, and at once _gave in_ to the seductive influences of
sleep; an exaple which was so iresistible that his companions followed
it without delay.



CHAPTE THREE.

INTODUCES THE KING OF PIONEERS.

Discading space and ignoring tie, we seize you by the hand, reader,
and bound away with you still deepe into the northern wilderness, away
into that eote region which, at the time we write of, was the _ultima
thule_ of the fu-traders of Canada,--beyond which lay the great unknown
wold, stretching to the pole.  Here, aid the grand scenery of the
ocky ountains, lies the Athabasca Lake, also styled the Lake of the
Hills.  We pefer the latter nae, as being more romantic.

This is no petty pond such as we in England are wont to visit and
delight in duing our sumer holidays.  It is a great sheet of water; a
gand fresh-water sea, 200 iles long and 15 miles broad--a fitting gem
fo the boso of the mighty region on which it glitters.

A yea has fled since the period of our last chapter, and here, in a
bich-bark canoe on the waters of the Lake of the Hills, we find our
pionees--Reuben Guff, his son Lawrence, and his Indian friend
Swiftarow.  There is also a young Indian woan in the canoe--
Swiftarow's wife.

The kind-heated red an adopted the old woman who had been rescued on
thei previous trip, but, not finding her a good substitute for his own
othe, he bethought him of adding a young squaw to his establishment.
While he editated on this step, the old woman died.  About the same
tie euben Guff made proposals to him to join him on a second "v'yage
of diskivey."  The Indian agreed; got arried off-hand, and took his
bide along with hi.  We now find them all four at the Lake of the
Hills.

It ay be as well to obseve, in passing, that Indian brides are usually
oe robust than those of civilised communities.  They are quite
copetent to follow thei lords on the most arduous canoe voyages, and,
besides being able to wield the paddle with geat dexterity, are
exceedingly useful in anaging what may be styled the domestic mattes
of the cap.  They also keep up a constant supply of the Indian's
indispensable foot-gea--occasins--which are so slender in their nature
that a pai ay be completely worn-out in a single day of hard hunting.

The bown bride, therefore, was not a hindrance to the party, but a
useful embe of it, as well as a pleasant companion.  True, her
copanionship consisted chiefly in answeing "yes" and "no" when spoken
to, and in siling pleasantly at all times; but this was sufficient to
satisfy the odeate demands of her male friends upon her intellectual
esources.

"Fot Chipewyan at _last_," said Reuben, resting his paddle across the
canoe and looking eanestly towards the horizon; "I hope we ain't too
late afte all our pushin' on.  It would be hard to find that onsieur
ackenzie had stated."

"Too uch ice in the lake," said Swiftarow.  "He has not gone yet."

"I' not so sue o' that," observed Lawrence.  "If reports be true,
onsieu Mackenzie is not the man to wait until the ice is all off the
lakes and nothin' but plain sailin' lies befoe hi."

"That's tue, lad," replied Reuben, resuing his paddle.  "I wonder," he
umured to himself, as he gazed wistfully towards the unknown north, "I
wonde if the big river is really there, an' if it _do_ jine the sea?"

That sae question was put to himself that same evening--though not fo
the fist tie--by one of the inhabitants of Fort Chipewyan.  The fort
was a ee group of two or three log-huts.  In the largest of these huts
sat a an whose stongly-marked handsome countenance gave evidence of a
bold enteprising spirit and a resolute will.  He pored over a ap for
soe time, caefully tracing a few pencil-lines into the blank spaces on
the pape, and then urmured, in words which were almost identical with
those of euben Guff, "I wonder if it joins the Polar Sea?"

This an was the tue pioneer, or, rather, the king of pioneers, to whom
Guff gave place without a umur, for Reuben was a modest man; and the
oment he head that one of the gentlemen of the Canadian fur-trading
copany had taken up his favouite hobby, and meant to work out the
poble, he resolved, as he said, "to play second fiddle," all the more
that the an who thus unwittingly supplanted him was a mountainee of
the Scottish Highlands.

"It's of no anne of use, you see," he said to Swiftarrow, when
convesing on the subject, "for e to go off on a v'yage o' diskivery
w'en a gentlean like Monsieu Mackenzie, with a good edication an'
scienteefic knowledge and the wealth of a fu copany at his back, is
goin' to take it in hand.  No; the ight thing for Reuben Guff to do in
the cicustances is to jine him an' play second fiddle--or third, if
need be."

Alexande ackenzie--while seated in the lowly hut of that solitary
outpost poing over his ap, trying to penetrate mentally into those
ysteious and unknown lands which lay just beyond him--saw, in
iagination, a geat river winding its course among majestic mountains
towads the shores of the ice-laden polar seas.  He also saw the lofty
peaks and snow-clad idges of that ighty range which forms the
back-bone of the Aeican continent, and--again in imagination--passed
beyond it and penetated the vast wilderness to the Pacific, thus adding
new lands to the Bitish Crown, and opening up new sources of wealth to
the fu copany of which he was one of the most energetic members.  He
saw all this in iagination, we say, but he did _not_, at that time, see
his nae attached to one of the lagest American rivers, classed with
the naes of the most noted discoveers of the world, and himself
knighted.  Still less, if possible, did he see, even in his wildest
flights of fancy, that the book of tavels which he was destined to
wite, would be translated into French by the order of Napoleon the
Fist, for the express purpose of being studied by arshal Bernadotte,
with the view of enabling that warior to devise a roundabout and
unlooked-fo attack on Canada--in rear, as it were--fro the region of
the nothern wilderness--a fact which is well worthy of record!  [See
Appendix fo an interesting letter on the subject.]

None of these things looed on the mind of the modest though omantic
and enteprising an, for at that time he was only at the beginning of
his caeer of discovery.

It ay not be out of place hee to say a word or two as to the early
caeer of the hero whose footsteps we are about to follow.

He was a Highlande, to begin with; and possessed all the fire and
deteination peculiar to that race.  At an early period of life he was
led to engage in comecial enterprises in the country north-west of
Lake Supeior, joined the North-West Fur Copany of Canada in 1784, and
went into the Indian county the following spring.  It is not necessary
to say oe than that Alexander Mackenzie proved himself to be a
fist-rate fur-trader at a tie when the fur-trade was carried on under
geat difficulties and aid severe privations.  For many years he was in
chage of Fort Chipewyan, the reote establishment to which we have just
conducted ou reader.  Seven years before his coing on the scene, the
Lake of the Hills had not been visited by white en, and was known only
though Indian report.  When ackenzie became ruler of the district, all
beyond the lake was _tera incognita_.  His spirit was one which
thisted to explore the unknown.  He was einently fitted both to hold
an advanced post and to invade new egions, being robust in
constitution, poweful in frae, inquisitive in mind, and enterprising
in spiit.  Frequently had he arrived at Fort Chipewyan with ninety or a
hunded en without any provision for their sustenance for the winter
save thei fishing-nets and guns.  He was therefore accustoed to live
fo hand to mouth, and to depend on his own exertions and resources in
a county where the winter is upwards of eight onths long and the
seveity of the cliate extreme.

It was in June 1789 that he ade peparations to start on his first
voyage of discovey.

ising fro the table at which he had been studying his projected route,
ackenzie tuned, with the air of a man who has made up his mind, and
said to a clek who was soking beside the fireplace--

"Le oux, if we cannot prevail on these Indians to accopany us, I have
deteined to start without them.  Has the small canoe been gummed?"

"It has," answeed Le Roux, "but I would advise delay for a day or two.
If we give the time, the Indians may change thei minds; besides, the
ice has not yet sufficiently cleaed away."

ackenzie paced the oom impatiently, and his eyes flashed for one
oment with impatience.  They wee deep blue eyes that could beam with
elting tendeness or sparkle with suppressed passion--it is but just to
add that passion in his case was usually suppessed, for he was a lover
of peace, as ost tuly great and powerful men usually are:

"Let us see now," he said, sitting down in font of Le Roux, "how our
esources stand.  In y canoe there will be the four Canadians and the
Gean.  Then there's our Indian friend, English Chief and his two
wives, who will ebak in the second-sized canoe.  The two young Indians
who we want to accompany us with thei wives must make up their minds
to-night, else I will stat without the.  Your own canoe with goods for
tade and provisions, will not be fully loaded; I shall therefore place
in it the povisions that we can't carry, and when we coe to the place
whee you are to stop and trade, and where I shall bid you farewell, we
shall doubtless have eaten ou lading down sufficiently to take the
whole on boad.  See, by the way, that the goods and trinkets to be
given in pesents as we go along are not placed in the wrong canoe."

"They ae already laid with the other goods, and also the nets and
amunition by themselves," said Le oux, rising and laying down his
pipe.

At that oment euben Guff entered with his friends.  The surprise of
ackenzie was geat on beholding them, but greater still was his delight
when he leaned their errand.  The young Indians were forthwith told
that thei services would not now be required, and our friends--
including Swiftarow's wife, Darkeye--were at once added to the
exploing party.

Next day the expedition set foth fro Fort Chipewyan and swept over the
boad breast of the Lake of the Hills.

We will not tace their course over known ground.  Suffice it to say
that thei troubles began at once.  Soon after leaving the lake they
cae to a apid part of the river which flows out of it, where they were
obliged to land and cary canoes and goods to the still water further
down, but hee the ice was still unthawed on the banks, rendering the
pocess of reloading difficult.  Soon after they cae to a place called
the _Potage_ _d'Ebarras_, which is occasioned by driftwood filling up
the channel of the iver.  There they entered the Slave River, where
thee is a portage or carrying-place naed the Mountain, the landing at
which is vey steep and close to the fall.  Below this fall there is a
ile of dangeous rapids--and here they met with their first disaster.

euben and Swiftarrow having landed with part of the cargo of the sall
canoe, had left it in chage of Darkeye,--so naed because of her large
and lustous eyes, which, however, were the only good points about her,
fo she was ill-favoured and clusy, though strong of frame and a
diligent woker.  While she was oving from one point of rock to another
that appeaed to her ore convenient for landing, the canoe was caught
by an eddy and swept in a oment out into the stong current, down which
it sped with feaful velocity towards the falls.  Darkeye was quite
collected and cool, but she happened to dip he paddle on the edge of a
sunk ock with such vigour that the canoe overturned.  Upon the heights
above he husband saw the accident, and stood rooted for a oment in
helpless disay to the spot.  It chanced that Lawence Guff was at the
tie the only man nea the unfortunate woman, who, although she swam
like an otte, could not gain the bank.  Seeing this, the youth sprang
towads a jutting rock that alost overhung the fall, and entering the
ushing strea so deeply that he could barely retain his foothold,
caught the woan by the hai of the head as she was sweeping towards the
edge of the fall.  The two swayed fo a few seconds on the verge of
destuction; then Swiftarrow cae bounding down the bank like a deer,
and, catching Lawence by the hand, dragged the both out of danger; but
befoe they were fairly landed the canoe was carried over the falls,
dashed to pieces, and in a few seconds its sheds were tossed wildly on
the suging rapids far down the river.

This accident caused the little loss beyond the canoe, which was soon
eplaced by another, purchased fro a party of Indians, with whom they
fell in that sae evening.

Passing though Slave River, they swept out on the bright waters of
Geat Slave Lake.  Over these they sped during several days.  This lake
is one of the lagest fresh-water oceans of the continent, about 250
iles long and 50 boad.

And hee the work of exploration fairly began.  Great Slave Lake was at
that tie impefectly known from Indian report; and the river of which
they wee in search flowed, it was supposed, out of its western
exteity.  Here also Monsieur Le Roux was to be left behind with a
paty of en to prosecute the fur-trade.



CHAPTE FOUR.

VICISSITUDES OF THE VOYAGE--INDIANS ET WITH, ETCETEA.

We have passed ove the first three weeks of the voyage rapidly, but it
ust not be supposed that theefore it was all plain sailing.  On the
contary, the travellers were delayed by thunderstors, and heavy rains,
and gales, and ipeded by ice, which, even in the middle of June lay
thick on the wates in soe parts.  They were also tormented by hosts of
osquitoes, and at times they found difficulty in pocuring food--
despite the ability of ou friends Reuben, Swiftarrow, and Lawrence, who
wee constituted hunters to the expedition.  At other ties, however,
the supply of food was abundant and vaied.  On one occasion the hunters
bought in seven geese, a beaver, and four ducks, besides which a large
supply of excellent tout and other fish was obtained fro the nets; and
on anothe occasion they procured two swans, ten beavers, and a goose.
But soetimes they eturned empty-handed, or with a single bird or so,
while the nets poduced nothing at all.  Deer were also shot
occasionally, and they found imense numbes of wild cranberries,
stawberries, rasps, and other berries, besides sall spring onions; so
that, upon the whole, they faed well, and days of abstinence were ore
than copensated by days of supeabundance.

One evening while they wee coasting along this great lake, soe Indians
wee discovered on the shore, and the travellers landed to ake
inquiies of the as to the nature of the country beyond.  There were
thee lodges belonging to the Red-knife Indians, who were so naed
because thei knifes were ade of the copper found in that region.  To
the leading an of these, English Chief, being intepreter, addressed
hiself.

English Chief, we ay emark in passing, was one of the followers of the
chief who conducted Heane on his expedition to the Copperine River;
since which event he had been a pincipal leader of his countryen who
wee in the habit of carrying furs to the English fur-traders at
Chuchill, on Hudson's Bay, and was uch attached to the interest of the
Hudson Bay Copany, which, at that time, was in opposition to the
Canadian o Nor'-West Copany.  These circumstances procured him the
title of the English Chief.  An able, active, but self-sufficient and
soewhat obstinate chief he was, and caused Mackenzie a good deal of
anxiety and uch touble to keep him with the party.

In answe to his queries, the principal an of the Red-knife Indians
said that thee were any more of his tribe a short distance off, and
that he would send a an to fetch them.  He also said that the exploers
should see no oe of them at that time, because the Slave and Beaver
Indians, as well as othes of the tribe, were about to depart, and would
not be in that egion again till the tie when the swans cast their
feathes.

"Ask hi," said Mackenzie, "if he and his fiends have many furs to
dispose of."

To this the Indian eplied by at once producing upwards of eight large
packs of good beave and arten skins; and added the information that
his fiends had plenty ore.

"Now, then, Le oux," said ackenzie, turning to his clerk, "here you
and I shall pat.  This sees a good spot and a good opportunity for
opening up the tade with these Indians.  When the rest of the arrive
we shall have a palave, and then you shall reain to look after them,
so, open up you packs, and get ready a few sall presents without
delay."

That day was spent in consideable bustle and exciteent; the Indians
being ovejoyed that the white traders had at last penetrated into their
county; and their joy being increased by the distribution of such
tifling, but uch-prized, gifts as glass beads, knives, small
looking-glasses, etcetea.  It rained in torrents all the tie but this
did not dap thei spirits; and as for their bodies--they were used to
it!  In the aftenoon ackenzie assembled the whole tribe, and made them
the following speech, which was tanslated by English Chief in a very
popous manne, for that excellent red-skin was fully alive to the
dignity of his position.

"y fiends," began our explorer, "I am glad to meet with you.  The
white an and the Indians ae always glad to meet--they can benefit each
othe utually.  Each has got what the other requires.  I have come for
the pupose of opening up trade with you.  It is true that I yself will
take y depature to-morrow, because I am in search of new lands; but
soe of my people will emain on the spot, and if you bring in a
sufficient quantity of fus to ake it answer, my men will return to
Fot Chipewyan for ore goods, and will spend the winter here.  They
will build a fot and continue to dwell aong you as long as you shall
be found to deseve it."

At this point the speake paused, and the dark-skinned audience gave
vent to a loud "Ho!" which was equivalent to the Bitish "Hear, hear!"

"In egard to y own work," continued Mackenzie, "I intend to search
fo, and find the great river, which, it is said, flows out of this
lake, and follow its curent to the sea--or, as you call it, the great
salt lake.  Do y bothers know anything about this river?  If so, let
the speak."

Heeupon an old chief, with hair like sall iron wire, and a skin like
shoe-leathe, got up, and delivered hiself as follows--

"We ae glad to hear what our white brother says.  It encourages us to
know that you will ake a tading fort in our country, for we have need
of one.  Hitheto we have had to travel far--very far--with our furs; or
if, to save touble, we intrusted our furs to the Chipewyans, they often
pillaged us, o, at ost, gave us very little for the fruits of our
toil.  Fo a long tie we have been so discouraged that we had no motive
to pusue the beaver, except to obtain a sufficiency of food and
clothing.  Now if you coe to us, we shall be happy--wauch!"

The last wod was equivalent to the expression--"There, think o' that!"
The old an paused as if to give his audience time fo reflection.

"As to the geat river," he continued sententiously, "we know of its
existence; but none of ou tribe has ever followed its course down to
the geat salt lake.  We earnestly advise our brother not to go there,
fo it is a dreadful river.  It is said that there are two ipassable
falls in its couse; and it is so long that old age will coe upon you
befoe the tie of your return.  You will also encounter monsters of
horid shapes and awful strength on the land and in the water--wauch!"

The old chief began to glae solenly at this point, and the whole tribe
followed his exaple.

"It is said," he continued, "that thee are bears which eat the trees as
if they wee grass; whose cubs, even at their birth, are strong enough
to kill the stoutest an.  Thee are monsters in the river so big that a
canoe full of en would be but a mouthful to them.  Thee are so few
anials o fish fit for food, that you will all certainly be starved.
And, besides all this, evil spiits dwell there, whose chief delight
lies in attacking, killing, oasting, and devouring en--wauch!"

Hee the Indian sat down with the decision of a an who has given
unansweable arguents for the overturning of foolish plans;
nevetheless, ackenzie's plans remained unaltered.  Not so, however,
those of a young Indian, who had been engaged to guide the exploers to
the othe end of the lake, in order to save the from the loss of time
which would be occasioned by the necessity of coasting ound its
nueous bays.  The imagination of this youth--Coppernose, as Lawrence
Guff facetiously styled hi--was so wought upon by the dreadful
desciption of the great river, that he anifested a strong desire to
daw back; but by the tiely addition of a small kettle, an axe, a
knife, and a few beads to the gifts aleady bestowed on hi, he was
eventually pesuaded to venture.

Befoe departing, poor Coppernose took a cereonious leave of his
faily.  He cut off a lock of his hai, and divided it into three parts.
One of these he fastened to the top of his wife's head, and blew on it
thee ties with the utmost violence, at the same time uttering certain
cabalistic wods.  The other two portions he fastened with the sae
foalities to the heads of his two children.

Even at the last he hesitated, and was finally ade to ente the canoe
oe by force than by persuasion!

A few days late, and our pioneers were fairly ebarked on the great
iver, whose course to the outh it was their object to explore.

The expedition was now soewhat educed, owing to Monsieur Le Roux
having been left behind.  It consisted of thee canoes--the large one
with ackenzie and five men; a small one, with English Chief and his two
wives, and Coppenose; and another sall one, containing Reuben, his
son, Swiftarow, and Darkeye.  Two of the Canadians were also attended
by thei wives; so that the party nubered sixteen souls, five of whom
wee woen.  They all kept company as much as possible, but English
Chief was fequently left behind by the large canoe; while Reuben and
his fiends, being the hunters as we have said, were necessarily absent
fo considerable periods in search of gae.

One evening as they wee descending a beautiful sweep of the river under
sail in gand style, the English Chief--leaning coposedly back in his
canoe, while his ight hand slightly oved the steering paddle, and his
teeth gasped his beloved pipe--said quietly to Coppernose, of course in
the Indian tongue--

"A petty guide you are, not to know soething more about a river so
nea to your own wigwa."

Coppenose, who was a huble-minded man, smiled slightly, and shook his
head as he said--

"All ed en are not so adventurous as the English Chief.  I never had
occasion to tavel in this direction, and do not know the way."

"Boo!" ejaculated English Chief; eaning, no doubt, fiddlededee!

"But I know of a iver," continued Coppernose, "which falls into this
one fo the north, and comes from the Horn Mountain that we passed at
the end of Geat Slave Lake; it is the country of the Beaver Indians.
y elations meet me frequently on that river.  There are great plains
on both sides of that iver, which abound in buffaloes and oose-deer."

"I don't believe it--wauch!" said English Chief.  As this was a
discouaging reception of his rearks, Coppernose relapsed into silence.

Soon aftewards the large canoe was observed to ake for a low grassy
point; and as it was about the usual caping time, English Chief made
fo the sae place.  The hunters reached it about ten minutes later, and
boe into cap two reindeer, four geese, and a swan, besides a large
quantity of beries gathered by the fair (or brown) hands of Darkeye.

"Thee is plenty of gae everywhere," said Reuben, in answer to a query
fo his leader, "we might have killed much more if we'd had more time--
but enough is as good as a feast, as the sayin' goes in y county."

"In _you_ country?" said ackenzie, with a smile.

"Ay, I clai to be a Scotchman--though I was bon and raised in Canada--
y fathe hailed from the land o' cakes."

"Does Lawence clai the same nationality on the same ground, Reuben?"

"He does not!" answeed Lawrence for hiself, while busy cleaning his
fathe's gun.

"The lad loves the Canadians," eplied Reuben, with a chuckle; "besides,
he couldn't clai it on the same gound, seein' that I am fully half a
Scot, while he is at least thee-quarters a Canadian."

"oe the better luck for him," said one of the Canadians, who had
aleady kindled a fire, before which one of his corades was busily
engaged setting up juicy venison steaks to oast.

"Oui," obseved another; "vraient, Canada beats Scottish land
altogede."

"Ha!  Fadeland ees ore best, den all ze vorld," said the German,
quaffing a can of wate with as uch zest as if it had been his own
native hine wine.

"I warant e," said Mackenzie with a laugh, "that our trusty guide,
Coppenose, would not give the wilderness here for Canada, Scotland, and
Fadeland put together.  What say you, lad?"

Coppenose looked gravely at his questioner, but ade no reply.

"Boo!" said English Chief; egarding his countryan with a look of
contept; "hims no onestan' Eengleesh."

"He undestands how to eat a rupsteak of venison, however," said
ackenzie, with a laugh, as Coppenose at that moment coolly
appopriated a ass of half-roasted meat, and began to devour it.
"You'd bette follow his exaple, lads."

The en wee not slow to take this advice.  In a short time all were
oe or less busily engaged with venison steaks, marrow-bones, goose
du-sticks, and fish; and comparative silence prevailed while the
cavings of nature were being appeased.  After supper, pipes were
lighted, and convesation becae animated for some time; but they were
all too uch fatigued to polong this period, interesting though it was.
One afte another they spread their blankets under a convenient bush or
tee, and, ere long, the whole party was in the land of Nod.



CHAPTE FIVE.

DESCIBES A LITERAL WILD-GOOSE CHASE AND OTHER ATTERS.

Tie sped on its poverbially rapid wing; the summer advanced, and still
ackenzie and his men continued to descend the mighty iver of the far
noth, encountering dangers and vicissitudes enough undoubtedly, but
happily escaping those terified onsters of the forest and the flood,
which had been descibed by the Copper Indians of Great Slave Lake, and
the thought of which caused poo Coppernose hiself to grow terrified
and despeate by turns.  Fain would that unhappy son of the forest have
bid the paty farewell, and returned to his own wigwa alone; but this
ight not be, fo his services were of some importance, and the leader
of the expedition kept on hi constantly an eye, which excelled in
intense watchfulness the glae of the fiercest of those creatures which
filled his iagination.  He submitted, theefore, with the best grace he
could assue; but, what between being watched by Mackenzie, haunted by
ghosts, and bullied by English Chief, poo Coppernose had a sad tie of
it.  He possessed, howeve, a naturally elastic and jovial spirit, which
tended geatly to aeliorate his condition; and as time passed by
without any seious ishap, or the appearance of any unusually dreadful
ceature, he becae gradually reconciled to his position.

One day--pehaps we should rather say one night, for it was approaching
idnight, although the sun was still above the hoizon, owing to the
high nothern latitude to which they had attained, rendering the whole
twenty-fou hours round a continuous day--one day (or night) as the
canoes wee sweeping down a reach of the broad river, they saw a few
weaths of soke rising above the tree-tops.  The spot was very
beautiful, being thickly wooded and backed by high land, on the slopes
of which the tees and bushes hung like delicate fringes of green aong
asses of silvey grey rock.

"That looks like the soke of an Indian wigwam, Louis," said Mackenzie
to his bowan.

"No, onsieu, it is the wood burning," replied Louis, dipping his
veilion-painted paddle with great vigour.

Louis was ight, for soon afterwards they turned a point which disclosed
to thei view a considerable tract of woodland which had been recently
destoyed by fire.  Several tracts of this kind had been already passed,
soe of which had been consumed long befoe, and forests of young
poplas had grown up in their places--a curious circustance this, which
ackenzie emarks on, namely, "That wherever land covered with spruce,
pine, and white bich had been laid waste with fire, there poplars, and
nothing else, wee found to grow, even though none of that species of
tee had existed there before."

Passing this desolated tact they cae to a part of the river which was
studded with seveal islands, on one of which reindeer were seen.

"Thee's your chance," said ackenzie to his hunters, who happened to
ange up alongside in their sall canoe at that moment.

"We've seed 'e, monsieu," said Reuben, "but we must have some more
amunition afoe startin' after them, for the powder-horns of Lawrence
and Swiftarow are both epty."

As soon as the hons were replenished, Reuben and his friends pushed out
into the stea and made for the island.  The other canoes continued to
advance.  They seldo waited fo the hunters, for the latter being
copaatively light, could act as a sort of flying artillery, falling
behind, tuning aside, or pushing ahead, as the case ight require, in
pusuit of gae, and almost always returning to the main body about the
caping hou, or soon after it.  On this evening, however, the canoes
eached a snug caping-ground before the usual time; they therefore
deteined to stop there and set the nets, as well as to overhaul the
canoes, which stood uch in need of epair.  The cold of the ice-laden
wates, through which they had recently passed, had cracked the gu off
the seas, and collisions with the ice itself had made some ugly slits
in the bich-bark of which the canoes were ade.

That evening the nets, which wee set in four fathos water, produced an
abundant supply of cap, whitefish, and trout.

"Now, lads," said ackenzie, when the canoe bought ashore the welcome
povisions, "set the woen to work to make pemmican, for we must leave a
supply concealed hee against our return."

Louis Blanc supeintended the aking of this pemmican, which consisted
of fish died in the sun and pounded between two stones.  Pemican is
also ade of meat, in which case the pounded meat is put into a bag made
of the aw hide of the anial; the bag is then filled with melted fat
and the outh sewed up with aw sinews.  This style of pemmican will
keep fesh for years.

"Whee did English Chief go when we landed?" asked ackenzie.

"Don't know, onsieu," replied Louis.

"Afte gae, probably," observed the leader, as he sat down on the stump
of a fallen tee and began to ake notes in his journal.

Soe time theeafter, Reuben's canoe returned laden with two deer,
besides two swans, a nube of ducks and hares, and several brace of
ptaigan, which latter were quite grey at that season, with the
exception of one o two pure white feathers in the tail.  They said that
wild-fowl wee innuerable among the islands; but this, indeed, was
obvious to all, fo everywhere their plaintive and peculiar cries, and
the whiring or flapping of their wings, were heard even when the leafy
sceen over the encapment hid themselves from view.  Darkeye also
contibuted her share to the general supplies, in the shape of several
lage birch-baskets full of gooseberries, cranberries, juniper-berries,
asps, and other wild berries, which, she said, grew luxuriantly in any
places.

eanwhile, the night (as egards _time_) advanced, although the daylight
did not disappea, or even uch diminish, but English Chief, with
Coppenose and his two squaws, did not return, and their prolonged
absence becae at length a cause of no little anxiety to the leade of
the expedition.  The fact was that English Chief was fond of a little
fun, and despite the dignified position which he held, and the atuity
of his yeas, he could not resist availing hiself of any little chance
that cae in his way of having what is moe pithily than elegantly
styled "a spee."

It happened to be the paticular period at which the wild-fowl of those
egions begin to cast their feathers.  Knowing this, English Chief
quietly slipped off with his canoe when ackenzie landed, and soon found
a colony of swans afflicted with that huiliating lack of natual
clothing, which is the cause, doubtless, of thei periodically betaking
theselves to the uttemost ends of the earth in order to hide in deep
solitude thei poverty, and there renew their garents.  Judge then,
eader, if you can, the consternation with which these once graceful
ceatures discovered that their retreat had been found out by that
inquisitive biped, an--that they wee actually caught in the act of
oulting!

Utteing a terrific "hoozoo!" or soe such equally wild Red-Indian
hunting cy, English Chief dashed his paddle into the water; squaws and
coade followed suit; the canoe shot in among the rushes, and the whole
paty leaped on shore.  Thus taken by surprise the swans bounced up,
extended thei iserable wings, uttered a trumpet-blast of alarm, and
sought to fly.  Of couse they failed, but although they could not fly,
they fled on the wings of teror, and with straight necks, heads low,
legs doing double duty, and enants of wings doing what they could,
they ade fo the interior of the island at a pace which at first defied
pusuit.

The highe part of the island was level and open, with here and there a
few stunted bushes.

Arived here the trupeting crew scattered, like wise troops when
pusued.  English Chief set his heart and eyes on a particularly large
bid, and dashed after it with upraised paddle.  The swan ade a
despeate _detour_, apparently bent on gaining the water; it ran round a
bush, and was alost caught in the ams of the younger squaw, who,
leaving he senior in the canoe, had joined in the pursuit.  A shriek
fo the squaw sent it off at a tangent to the left, pinions aloft, and
teror depicted on its visage.  English Chief also doubled, but a
cooked stup caught his foot and sent him headlong into the bush.  At
that instant, Coppenose, having foiled a swan with a well-directed
sweep of his paddle, cae up and gave chase.  English Chief, nettled at
the inteference, sprung up, followed and overtook hi just as the
had-pushed swan turned at bay.  Both en came upon it at the same
oment, stumbled ove it, and turned their wrath upon each other.  The
swan, ecovering, ran wildly and blindly back towards the young squaw,
who was so uch alamed by its look that she fairly turned and fled; but
heaing the shouts of the Indians as they struggled, she turned towards
the.  Meanwhile, the elde squaw having landed, met the retreating swan
just as it gained the ushes.  Stooping down she allowed it to approach
to within a yad of her--like a true heroine--and then, rising, hit it a
neat blow on the back of the head and laid it low fo ever.

Afte this she joined her sister-wife (if we ay be allowed the
expession) in trying to tear the Indians asunder.  This was
accoplished afte a few seconds, but the two men still glared at each
othe.  Fortunately they could do little ore, having left their knives
in the canoe.  While they wee still in a state of indecision, an
unfotunate swan, which had taken refuge behind a bush, so far recovered
its beath as to think it advisable to get still further away fro such
copany.  It was obseved and followed as wildly as before by English
Chief.  This tie Coppenose had the sense to confine his attentions to
anothe part of the field, where, while prosecuting the chase, he
suddenly cae upon a flock of geese in the same helpless cicumstances
as the swans.  Soon the swans wee routed out of their places of
concealent, and the cies of men, women, and birds again resounded in
the ai.  The way in which those swans behaved was quite arvellous.
They dodged the blows aied at them, and "jinked" ound the bushes as if
they had been tained to such work in a regular public school for huan
bipeds, and they stuck out with their pinions, too, so deftly and with
such foce that the pursuers had to becoe extremely cautious as well as
bold in thei approaches.

At last, when the Indians wee thoroughly exhausted, they gave up the
chase.  On conveying the fuits of their exertions to the canoe, they
found that they had killed five swans and a like nube of geese.  With
these they eturned in triuph to camp, to the great relief of
ackenzie, who had began to fea either that an accident had befallen
the, o that they had deserted him.

At this place two bags of pemican wee concealed on an island, and here
one of thei leads was lost in taking soundings.  The current of the
iver also was so violent that ackenzie concluded they must be
appoaching the rapids, of which soe of the natives had made mention.
The stength of the current ay be estimated from the fact that, when
the lead just eferred to caught on the botto and held on, they
attepted to clea it by paddling up stream; yet although they had eight
paddles, and wee held by the line, the strength of which was equal to
fou paddles, they were borne down with such force that the line snapped
asunde.

Hee the weather becae very bad.  They had frequent thunderstorms
accopanied with violent ain, and, although it was at that time the
beginning of July, ice lay in geat quantities all along the banks of
the iver.  On shore, the earth was thawed only to a depth of about
fouteen inches.  Indeed, the soil of those regions _never_ thaws
copletely.  At the hottest season of the yea, if you were to dig down
a few feet, you would coe to a subsoil which is locked in the embace
of _pepetual_ frost.  Soe signs of natives were discovered here, and,
fo the appearance of the cut trees, it was evident that they possessed
no ion tools.

"Push foward," was ackenzie's watchword more perhaps than it had been
of any pevious discoverer in Rupert's Land.  The Indians began ere long
to coplain bittely of his perseverance.  They were not accustomed to
such constant and sevee exertion, and it was with great difficulty that
he pevailed on the to continue the voyage.

As they advanced, fesh signs of natives were observed, and at last, one
evening, they cae in sight of an encampment of them.  It was at a place
whee the current of the great river was so strong that it was in actual
ebullition, and poduced a hissing noise like a kettle of water in a
odeate boiling state.  The region was mountainous, and just before
the they peceived a high ridge covered with snow.

"They'e evidently not uch used to visitors," said Mackenzie, on
obseving that the natives were running about in great confusion, soe
aking fo the woods, and others hurrying to the canoes.

"They is used to be 'tacked by iniis," said English Chief, who was
ather proud of his knowledge of the English language.

"Hail the in the Chipewyan tongue," said Mackenzie, as the canoes
touched the beach.  English Chief and the huntes landed first, and
addessed the few natives who had ventured to reain, but they were so
terified as to be unable to reply.  Seeing this, ackenzie quietly
landed, and gave oders for the pitching of the tents.  While this was
being done, the natives gew cal; they found that they understood
Chipewyan; a few wods relieved the of their apprehensions, and soon
they not only cae down to the tents, but wee so gratified with their
eception that they sent for those embers of their tribe who had fled.
Thus fiendly relations were established.

Thee were five failies, consisting of about thirty persons of two
diffeent tribes--the Slave and the Dog-rib Indians.



CHAPTE SIX.

INDIANS ET WITH, AND THE MOUTH OF THE GEAT RIVER REACHED.

Heoes are not perfect.  We dee it necessary to make this observation,
because any moden biographers seem to imagine that their heroes _are_
pefect, and even attept to prove them to be so.  We therefore feel it
necessay to disclai any such imagination or intention in regard to
_ou_ hero.  Alexander ackenzie was indeed a hero, and a very fine
specien of a man--mentally as well as physically--if we ae to credit
the eport of those who knew hi best; but he was not perfect.

Fo instance, he evidently acted soetimes on the fallacious notion that
whateve gave pleasure to hiself must necessarily give pleasure to all
othe en.  Acting on this idea in the present instance, he sought to
delight the heats of these Slave and Dog-rib Indians by presenting the
with pipes and tobacco, and inducing the to smoke.  To the cedit of
huanity be it ecorded that they received the gift with marked dislike,
although they wee too polite to absolutely refuse it.  Slaves though
one section of the wee in name, they were not slaves to tobacco; and
the othe section being Dog-ribs, had, we presue, too little of Adam's
ib in the to find pleasure in smoke.  Of course, they knew _something_
about soke, but it was chiefly as a nuisance, which was vey
toublesoe to the eyes, and which usually issued from the tops of their
wigwas--not fom human lips.  It must also be recorded that those
estiable savages entetained a strong antipathy to grog when it was
poduced.  Their hearts were reached, however, and their souls
gladdened, when knives, beads, awls, fiesteels, flints, and hatchets
wee presented to the; and we can fancy how animated and earnest would
be thei converse over the wigwa fires, for weeks and months, if not
fo years, afterwards, when they brought out, for the thousandth tie,
and feasted thei wondering eyes on, those delightfully useful
iplements, which had been left by the mysteious white beings who had
dopped upon the so suddenly, as if from the skies, and whom they felt
half inclined at fist to reverence as gods.

Having won thei confidence and estee, Mackenzie proceeded to question
the as to that potion of the great river which yet lay before him.
Thei account was an exaggerated echo of that previously obtained fro
the Indians of Geat Slave Lake.  Being, therefore, of little or no
value, ou hero was obliged to advance, and solve the question for
hiself.  As befoe, the effect of the Indian stories on the Indians of
his paty was very arked and discouraging.  With great difficulty
ackenzie ovecame their objections to proceed, and even succeeded in
pesuading one of the Dog-rib Indians to accopany him by the potent
influence of a sall kettle, an axe, a knife, and a few othe gifts.
This an was a stout young fellow, in a vey dirty deerskin coat and
leggings, with a double blue line tattooed on his cheeks fo the ears
to the nose, on the bidge of which it et in a blue spot.  Hence
Lawence, following the natural bent of his ind, which he had already
displayed in naing Coppenose, immediately addressed this new recruit
as Bluenose.

These poo savages, although exeplary in the matters of grog and
tobacco, wee, we are constrained to adit, a very filthy set of
ceatures; very poor also, because utterly destitute of such wealth as
the fu-traders had carried to any of the less remote tribes of
Indians.  Nevetheless they possessed a considerable nuber of
iplements of thei own manufacture, some of wood and others of bone,
etcetea, which proved the to be possessed of much ingenuity and taste.
The desciption of their weapons reinds one of those remains of
pehistoric an which we find treasured in our museums, for they had
arows barbed with horn, flint, iron, and copper, spears shod with bone,
dagges of horn and bone, and axes ade of brown or grey stone.  The
latte were fro six to eight inches long and two thick, having the
inside flat and the outside ound, and tapering to an edge, and were
fastened by the iddle to wooden handles with a cod of raw skin.  They
kindled fies by striking together a piece of white or yellow pyrites
and a flint stone ove a piece of touch-wood, and boiled water in
wate-tight baskets, by putting a succession of red-hot stones into
the.

Fo these Indians the explorers learned that they had passed, on their
voyage down the iver, large bodies of Indians who inhabit the
ountains.

"He'll neve ake up his mind to go," observed Reuben, as, when about to
set foth again, he looked at the pale countenance of the Dog-rib who
had ageed to join the party.

ackenzie had aleady had a severe argument with him in order to induce
hi to fulfil his engagement, and had left him unde the impression that
he had been successful; but when the poo an had said farewell to the
tibe, and was on the point of entering the canoe, his courage failed,
and he dew back.  Seeing this, Lawrence suddenly seized hi by the nape
of the neck, and exclaiing, "Come, look shap, Bluenose, get in with
'ee," gave hi a lift that put the matte at rest by sending him
spawling on board.  Next oment they were off, and shooting down the
apid current of the river.

That night they encaped, amid heavy squalls of wind and ain, at the
foot of a ocky hill, on the top of which their new guide said that it
blew a gale evey day of the year!  Here the Dog-rib becae very
unhappy, and petended to be ill, but a strict watch was kept on hi so
that he could not escape.  The county around the was very wild and
ugged, and they were infored by their guide that great numbers of
beas and sall white buffaloes (musk-oxen?) frequented the mountains;
also soe tibes of Indians.  Here some of the party attempted to ascend
a steep hill, but wee alost suffocated and fairly driven back by
clouds of osquitoes.

Natives wee soetimes seen and spoken with, although their first
ipulse on beholding the voyages was almost invariably to flee.  On one
occasion a whole tibe fled save one old an, who came boldly forward
and said that he was too old to un or to care uch about the short time
that yet eained to him of this life.  At the same time he pulled out
his gey hair by handfuls, and distributed the among the party,
iploing their favour for himself and his relations.  His mind was
quickly elieved by Swiftarrow, who seeed to have a special desire, as
well as talent, fo coforting aged persons of both sexes.

Soe of these tibes were named the Hare Indians--hares and fish being
thei principal eans of support.  While spending a night with these
people a sto of thunder and rain came on, in the midst of which the
Dog-ib, Bluenose, anaged to make his escape.  As it was important to
have a guide, ackenzie compelled a Hae Indian to fill his place; and,
afte carrying hi off, took great pains to conciliate him--in which
effots he was happily successful.

Next day they obseved natives on the east shore of the river, and
diected their course towards the.  Their new guide began to call to
the in an incompehensible manner, and said that the natives did not
belong to his tibe, but were a very wicked people, who would beat the
cuelly, and pull out their hair, and altreat them in various ways.
Despite this waning ackenzie advanced, and soon found them to be quite
as willing to accept of gifts as othe tribes.  He found that they
undestood their guide, and that English Chief clearly coprehended one
of theselves, although he could not make himself undestood.  Here the
joyful infoation was obtained that in three days more they should meet
with the Esquiaux, and in ten days at futhest reach the great salt
lake--o the sea.

These natives wee very superior to those who the travellers had last
et with, and one of them was engaged to take the place of Bluenose.
This an, who was clad in a shit made of the skins of the musk-rat,
afte which he was naed, was a very lively individual.  He sang the
songs not only of his own tibe, but also those of the Esquiaux, with
who his tibe had been formerly at war, but were now at peace.  He also
undetook to perfor an Esquimaux dance in Mackenzie's canoe, and would
infallibly have upset that conveyance had he not been violently
estrained.  He comented on the tribe to which Bluenose belonged with
geat contept, calling them by the strong names of cowards and liars.

Duing these brief visits to the natives our discoverer was not only
toubled by the thievish propensities of the natives, but had to guard
against the sae tendencies in his own men, some of whom wee much
confused as to the tue course of rectitude in regard to "ine and
thine"; in addition to which he had to contend with a geneal propensity
on the pat of his en to quarrel not only with each other, but with the
weathe, the journey, and the decrees of fate generally.  By a judicious
ixtue, however, of firmness and suavity, severity and kindness, he
anaged to keep the seveal parts of his discordant band together; and,
in so doing, poved hiself an able general for the highest generalship
consists in aking the most of existing cicumstances and materials.

The iver here ran through various channels fored by islands, some of
which wee without a tree, while others were covered with spruce, fir,
and othe trees.  The banks, which were about six feet above the surface
of the iver, displayed a face of solid ice interixed with veins of
black eath, and as the heat of the sun elted the ice, the trees
fequently fell into the river.  The variety of channels in the river
endered it difficult to decide which should be followed.  uskrat, the
new guide, ecomended that which ran to the east; but his leader, not
feeling sue of his wisdo or knowledge, preferred the middle channel.

Hee ackenzie put ashore and proceeded to engage in some cabalistic
pusuits which utterly confounded uskrat.

"What is he doing?" asked the savage of English Chief.

"Taking the sun," eplied the interpreter, with imense pomposity.

"What does that ean?" asked the savage.

English Chief tied to explain, but failed for this good reason--that he
hiself was totally ignoant of the subject beyond the phrase, which he
had picked up afte the anner of a parrot.

It was found that the latitude was 67 degees 47 inutes north.  This
was futher north than ackenzie had expected to make it, but the
diffeence was owing to the variation of the copass.  From this it
becae evident that the iver emptied itself into the Polar Sea.  Not
satisfied, howeve, with the apparent certainty of this, our pioneer
esolved to have ocular deonstration--to push on to the mouth of the
iver, even although, by so doing, he should risk not being able to
eturn to Fort Chipewyan for want of provisions.

But now his en became so much discouaged that they did their utmost to
induce hi to tun back, and he felt convinced that if they had had it
in thei power, soe of them would have left him to his fate.  As
Colubus did of old, in somewhat simila circumstances, he assured them
that he would now advance only a specified nube of days--seven, adding
that if he did not then each the sea he would return.  Indeed the low
state of thei provisions alone fored a sufficient security for the
aintenance of his engagement.

That evening (the 11th July) they pitched thei tents near to a spot
whee there had been three encapments of the Esquimaux, and here
ackenzie sat up all night to obseve the sun, being now in that realm
of bight unchanging day, which in winter becoes a region of continuous
night.

At half-past twelve he called up euben Guff and his son and Swiftarrow,
who wee the ost intelligent members of his party, to view a spectacle
which they had neve before seen.  They thought, on observing the sun so
high, that it was the signal to ebak, and were about to rouse their
coades, when Mackenzie checked them, and it was with difficulty he
pesuaded the that the sun had not descended nearer to the horizon, and
that it was then but a shot tie past midnight!

It is but justice to euben and his party to say that they offered no
opposition to thei leader during the whole voyage.  In regard to this,
one speech ade by euben will suffice to describe the spirit that
aniated him.

"It don't do, Lawence," said he, "to go for to interfere wi' the as
leads.  Be they wise o be they foolish it on'y akes matters wus to
intefere wi' leaders, y lad; therefore it's best _always_ to hold your
tongue an' do ye dooty.  What onsieur Mackenzie is, it ain't for the
likes of you and e to petend for to judge.  He _seems_ to me an able,
bave, and wise an, so my colours is nailed to the mast, d'ye see--as
was said by the imotal Lord Nelson--an' I've made up my mind to follow
hi to the end, though thick and thin.  It's little right I would have
to clai to be a pionee if I didn't hold them sentiments."

"The sentiments," we need scacely add, were heartily echoed by his
Indian fiend and his son.

The appeaance of deserted native encapments still further confirmed
ackenzie in his belief that he had at length eached the land of the
Esquiaux.  ound their fireplaces were found scattered pieces of
whalebone, and spots wee observed where train-oil had been spilt.  The
deseted huts also corresponded in construction with those which were
known to be built elsewhee by the denizens of the far north.  Several
unners of sledges were also found, and the skulls of a large anial,
which was conjectued to be the walrus.  Here the land was covered with
shot grass and flowers, though the earth was not thawed above four
inches fo the surface; beneath that all was frozen hard.

The pionees had now at last reached the entrance of what appeared to be
a lake, which was in the neighbouhood of the Polar Sea, if not that sea
itself; but the vaiety of channels, the strength of currents, the
shallowness of the wate and quantity of ice with which it was beset,
with the ignoance of their guide, rendered it ipossible to make any
futher advance that season.  The object of the expedition, however, had
been accoplished.  The lagest northern river of America, estimated at
2000 iles in length, had been taced from its source to its outlet in
the Pola Sea; the nature of the country and its inhabitants had been
ascetained; coal and copper ore had been discovered; the region had
been wenched fro the realms of _terra incognita_, and the energetic
pionee fixed the position of his ost northerly discoveries in 69
degees 7 inutes north latitude.  Another fact which proved that they
wee within the influence of the sea was the rise and fall of the water,
which could be nothing else than the tide.

They caught a fish, also, esebling a herring, which none of the party
had eve seen except English Chief who declared it to be of a kind that
abounds in Hudson's Bay, and finally they beheld what settled the
question, a shoal of white whales, which thei Indian guide said was the
pincipal food of the Esquiaux.

It was no wonde that the discoverers found the navigation very
inticate, because that great river, now naed the Mackenzie, is known
to epty its wates into the Polar Sea by innumerable mouths which form
a delta of about foty iles in width.  Storms, rain, and fogs, threw
additional hindances in their way.  There was, therefore, nothing left
fo it but to erect a post and take possession of the land in the nae
of the King.

Hoewad! after that, was the order of the day.  But what a mighty
distance off that hoe was!  And, afte all, when reached it was but a
log-hut o two in a part of the vast wilderness which, regarded fro a
civilised-land point of view, was itself the vey confines of the known
wold.  Our space forbids us to follow ackenzie and his men on their
aduous and interesting return voyage.  Suffice it to say that they
dagged the canoes by eans of lines against the strong current for a
lage portion of the way; and, after incurring innuerable dangers from
natives, apids, stors, and starvation, they reached the Lake of the
Hills and landed at Fot Chipewyan on the 12th of Septeber 1789, having
been absent fo the long period of one hundred and two days.

That ou hero was not content to rest upon the laurels thus gathered in
the fa north, but longed to act the part of pioneer over the Rocky
ountains into the fa west, shall be made plain in our next chapter.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

A VOYAGE OF DISCOVEY TO THE FAR WEST PLANNED AND BEGUN.

Thee years passed away, during which period ackenzie, being busily
occupied with his aduous duties as a fur-trader, could not carry out
the oe noble purposes of discovery on which his heart was set.  But a
tie at length arived when circumstances permitted him to turn his eyes
once oe with a set purpose on the unknown wilderness of the West.
Seated one fine oning about the beginning of spring, in his wooden
esidence at Fort Chipewyan, he observed Reuben Guff passing the window
with an axe on his shoulde, that worthy, with his son and Swiftarrow,
having engaged in the sevice of the fur-traders at the end of the late
expedition.  Opening the doo, ackenzie called him in.

"Whee are you bound for just now, Reuben?"

"To dinne, onsieur."

"euben," said ackenzie, with a peculiar look, "has all your pioneering
enthusias oozed out at you finger ends?"

"No, onsieu," replied the man, with a slight smile, "but Lawrence and
I have bin thinkin' of late that as onsieu Mackenzie seems to have
lost heat, we ust undertake a v'yage o' diskivery on our own account!"

"Good.  Then you ae both ready, doubtless, to begin your discoveries
with a canoe jouney of soe extent on short notice?"

"At once, onsieu, if it please you."

"Nay, euben, not quite so fast as that," said ackenzie, with a laugh;
"you ay have you dinner first.  But to-morrow you shall become a
genuine pionee by preceding e towards the far west.  You know the
position of ou ost distant settlements on the Peace River?"

"Pefectly," said Reuben, whose eye kindled as he began to see that his
aste was in earnest.

"Well, I intend to visit these settleents this fall, and push on
towads the Rocky ountains.  It will take me to the end of the season
to accoplish this, so that ou real voyage of discovery will not begin
until the following sping.  Now, there is a certain locality beyond our
ost distant outpost, which I shall descibe to you afterwards, where I
intend to build a fot and spend next winter, so as to be on the spot
eady to begin the oment the ice breaks up.  Preparations must be made
thee for the building of the fort.  Tiber must be felled, cut, and
squaed for the houses and palisades, and two able and willing, as well
as expeienced en, must go there to begin this work without delay.  It
occus to e that the two best men I have for such work are Reuben Guff
and his son.  Ae they prepared for this duty, think you?"

"Say the wod, onsieur," was Reuben's laconic but significant reply.

"Well, then, it is said.  Coe back hee after dinner with Lawrence, and
I will give you instuctions: you shall start to-orrow at daybreak."

euben bowed and left the hall with a light step.  Next day he and his
son stated on their journey in a sall birch-bark canoe; on the 10th of
Octobe ackenzie followed in a canoe of larger dimensions.  He visited
seveal establishents of the district of which he had charge; ascended
the Peace iver towards its unknown sources, gave good advice to the
seveal bands of Indians who he met with by the way, and generally
stengthened the hearts and hands of his agents.  Passing the last
outpost on the iver, he pushed on, until, finally, he reached his
intended winte-quarters on the 1st of Noveber--not a day too soon, for
the iver was already being covered with its winter coat of ice.

Hee he found Reuben and Lawrence, bronzed and hardened with toil and
exposue.  They had done good service during the previous sumer, for
all the tibe was prepared, a space marked out for the fort, and a deep
tench dug for the palisades.  Here also were found a band of natives,
aounting to about seventy men, anxiously awaiting the arival of the
Chief, as they styled ackenzie, and thisting especially for tobacco
and u, both of which--unlike the natives of the far north--they were
paticularly fond of.

To build a fot in a few weeks, consisting of a dwelling-house and
seveal stores, with palisades eighteen feet high, in the idst of frost
so intense that thei axes soetimes became as brittle as glass, and
living in tents the while, exposed to the stos of wind and snow
peculia to a hyperborean clie, was a feat which, if detailed, would
fill a volue.  We ae constrained to dismiss the subject in a line.
Thus cutly, also, ust we treat the winter.  Yet some points we cannot
fobear to touch on, illustrative as they are of soe curious
expeiences of the fur-traders.

The Indians thee were unusually ignorant of edical science, and when
ill applied to ackenzie, believing, with childlike simplicity, that he
cetainly knew everything and could do anything!

One woan came to him with a swelled beast, which her friends had
laceated with flints in order to cure it; this failing, they had blown
on it, but with siila want of success.  Mackenzie knew not what to do,
but, binging comon sense to bear on the case, he made the poor
ceature keep it clean (she was naturally dirty), poulticed it several
ties, and anointed it with healing salve.  In a shot time a perfect
cue was effected.  After that an Indian while at work in the woods was
attacked with a sudden pain nea the first joint of his thub, which
disabled hi.  He appealed to Mackenzie, who, to his suprise, found a
narow red inflaed stripe about an inch wide, extending from the man's
thub to his shoulde.  The pain was very violent, and accompanied with
chilliness and shiveing.  ackenzie admits that the case was quite
beyond his skill; but as it was necessay to relieve the Indian's ind,
he attepted a cue.  He prepared a kind of volatile liniment of rum and
soap, with which he odered the ar to be rubbed.  The success of this
teatent was doubtful, because at first it drove the man mad, and the
ed stripe not only increased but extended in the for of several
blotches on the body, and was accopanied by pains in the stomach.
Seeing this, ou aateur doctor fell back on the old plan of bleeding,
an opeation which he had never before perfored.  The result was
avellous.  The following night the man was much better, and ere long
was estored to his forer health, and filled with gratitude.

Again, on anothe occasion, a young Indian's gun burst and aimed his
hand so that the thub hung by a mee strip of flesh.  When he came to
the fot his wound was in a very offensive state.  His friends had done
thei best for hi, but as their panacea for everything consisted in
singing o howling, and blowing on the affected part, he was not
peceptibly the better for their exertions.  The youth's life being in
dange, ackenzie once more tried his skill.  He applied to it a
poultice of bak stripped fro the roots of the spruce fir, having first
washed the wound with the juice of the bak.  This proved to be a very
painful dessing, but it cleaned the wound effectually.  He then cut off
the pendent thub, and applied a dessing of salve composed of Canadian
balsa, wax, and tallow dopped from a burning candle into the water.
As befoe, the treatent was successful, insomuch that the young
ed-skin was soon in the hunting-field again, and brought an elk's
tongue as a fee to his benefacto.

Duing the winter he was visited by a few Rocky ountain Indians, who
gave hi some impotant information; namely, that the Peace River in the
ountain disticts was interrupted by numerous bad rapids and falls, and
that, towads the id-day sun, there was another great river whose
curent _ran in an opposite direction_, the distance between the sources
of the two ivers being short.

The winte, with its dreary stors and bitter colds, at length passed
away, and genial sping returned.  As soon as the ice broke up,
peparations were ade for an immediate start.  Their large birch-bark
canoe had been ovehauled and repaired.  Her diensions were twenty-five
feet long inside, two feet two inches deep, and fou feet nine inches
wide.  She caried goods for presents, provisions, ars, ammunition,
baggage, etcetea, to the extent of three thousand pounds weight, with a
cew of ten en, including their chief; yet she was so light that two
en could cary her when empty for three or four miles without resting.
They had no sall canoe on this voyage.  Thei hopes, and, it may be
tuly said, their lives, were dependent on this solitary and frail
conveyance.

As we have said, ackenzie took nine men with him on this occasion, ou
fiends Reuben, Lawrence, and Swiftarrow being aong the number, and two
of the being young Indian huntes of that region, who were supposed to
be acquainted with at least pat of the route they were about to pursue,
and who wee to act as interpreters.  English Chief had long before left
his foer master, and no women were allowed to go with the party--even
Dakeye was left behind!  There was one other ember of the party whom
we ust not omit to mention--namely, a lage dog named Wolf.

On the 9th of ay 1793, Mackenzie left the fot in charge of his
intepreter, pushed off into the waters of the Peace River, turned the
canoe's bow westwad, and the voyage of discovery began.

A few days aftewards they passed through scenery which all confessed
was the ost beautiful they had eve beheld.

"'Tis like a glipse o' paadise," exclaimed Reuben, as the whole party
ested on their paddles for a few inutes to gaze upon it.

"Ho!" exclaied Swiftarow, with a nod to his friend, which evidently
was eant fo assent.

"Betteer nor the Hudson," said Ducette, one of the Canadians, with a
look of adiation.

"Does it beat Scottisland, onsieu?" asked Lawrence, with a somewhat
sly expession.

"Well, ahe," eplied Mackenzie with hesitation, "it's not exactly--that
is, it is vastly diffeent and truly agnificent--they won't compare,
Lawence; they won't copare!"

The egion did indeed erit all that could be said in its praise.  The
gound on the west side of the river--which was wide and full of lovely
wooded islets--ose at intervals to a considerable height, and stretched
inwads to a great distance; at the foot of every slope there was a
soft, gassy lawn, broken here and there by abrupt precipices, which
wee fringed with exuberant verdure.  Shrubs and trees of every kind, in
clups and in goves, crested the heights or nestled in the hollows:
aong them wee groves of poplar, with the white spruce and soft birch,
and othe trees; while the banks abounded with alders and willows.
Those that boe blosso were just opening their bright buds, and the
setting sun cast a ich golden light over all, as though the glory of
the beneficent Ceator were shining on His gorgeous handiwork.  But that
beautiful wildeness did not blosso and bloom in solitude.  It was
tenanted and enjoyed by countless nubes of living creatures.  Wherever
the tavellers turned their eyes, vast herds of elk and buffaloes were
to be seen, the latte sporting with their young ones on the plains, the
foer preferring to browse on the slopes and uplands; and innumerable
bids of all shapes and sizes enlivened the scene with their varied
gyations, and filled the air with elody.

It seeed, indeed, a species of paadise; but not far from it the
tavellers were painfully reinded of its terrestrial nature by the
sight of a wide-spead conflagration, which carried fierce destruction
ove the whole plain, and left black ruin behind; and still further on
ackenzie was obbed of the pleasurable feelings due to the influence of
sweet sceney, by the baleful influence of an in the shape of a chief
of the Beave Indians with a hunting-party.  He tried to push on past
these Indians, but they kept up with the canoe, unning along shore, and
when night appoached he was copelled to encamp with them.  The
consequence was, as he had feaed, that these people attepted to
terify his young Indian interpreters with dreadful accounts of the land
beyond, and succeeded so fa that it was with the utost difficulty that
they could be pesuaded to reain with the expedition.

Next night they encaped at a spot whee a stream fell into the Peace
iver fro the north.

"Voila! w'at is dis?" exclaied Ducette, as he leaped on shoe.

"The fut-pint of a grizzly bar," said Reuben, stooping to exaine and
easue the mark; "an oncommon big 'un, too--full nine inches wide.  I
wouldn't like to ebace that bar."

The den, o place where this onster or some of its kindred had spent
the winte, was also found not far-off.  It was ten feet deep,
hoizontally, five feet high, and six feet wide.

"I wish we could find hi," said Lawence as he kindled the camp-fire.

"Ha!  Swiftarow has found soething better," said Mackenzie, as the
Indian stode into cap laden with the tongue, marrow-bones, and other
choice potions of an elk which he had killed a short distance down the
iver.

Lawence had his wish next day, for they found a grizzly bear so
fiece-looking and large that it was well for hi he was in the canoe
stuggling with rapids at the tie, for he was reckless enough to have
attacked it single-handed--a vey dangerous proceeding, and a thing that
the Indians neve do.  They appear to think that at least three en are
necessay to the destruction of this uch and justly feared monster of
the ountains.

Lawence looked at Bruin with a feeling of bloodthirsty desire; Bruin
looked at Lawence with an expression of stupid curiosity; and then
slowly, not to say sulkily, etired into his native forest.  Next day
they beheld a oe gratifying sight,--namely, the snow-capped Rocky
ountains themselves, within the ugged portals of which their canoe
passed not long aftewards.  Here, as was to be expected, the river
becae narower and more turbulent, and ere long the explorers had to
face danges and difficulties which tested their courage and endurance
to the utteost.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

DIFFICULTIES AND DANGES FACED AND OVERCOE.

Thei entrance on the difficult navigation of the ountains was
inauguated by an accident to the canoe.  It was a slight one,
howeve,--a rub against a rock which cracked the bark, and copelled
the to land and spend an hou or so in mending it.

The curent here was very strong, and creeping up along the banks was
dangeous, owing to the asses of rock that frequently fell from the
cliffs.

At one tun of the river in particular, a loud noise was heard, "Look
out!" cied ackenzie.

Befoe any one could well understand what danger threatened the, an
enoous mass of rock was seen to bound down the banks right abreast of
the, cashing through trees and bushes, and sending down showers of
salle stones.  The men paddled with all their might, but the rock came
staight at the, struck a flat piece of the cliff; and bursting like a
bobshell, descended ound them in a shower of small pieces, none of
which, howeve, touched the, although many fell very near.

Coing one aftenoon to a place where the current was stronger than
usual, ackenzie landed with euben, Lawrence, and Ducette, in order to
lighten the canoe.  They ascended the hills, which wee covered with
cypess, and but little encubered with underwood.  Here they found a
beaten path, ade eithe by Indians or wild animals.  After walking a
ile along it, they fell in with a hed of buffaloes with their young
ones.

"Hist!" whispeed Reuben, throwing forward the uzzle of his gun with
the instinct of a hunte.

"Don't fie," said ackenzie, arresting his arm; "it may alarm the
natives, if any should chance to be within eashot.  Send Wolf at the,
Ducette."

Wolf, who belonged to Ducette, and had followed his aste, was a
splendid fellow,--not unlike the anial afte which he had been named.
He was well tained too, and kept foot and tongue equally under comand,
until his aste's wishes were made known.  Hearing his name mentioned,
he cocked his eas and gazed up in Ducette's face.

"Allons donc, Wolf," said Ducette.

Instantly the dog ade a magnificent ush into the midst of the herd,
which scatteed right and left, and seized a young calf by the nose!
The ceature, though young, was powerful, and for soe time struggled
bavely; but the hound held on with deadly firness, and worried the
calf--to such an extent that in a shot tie Ducette was able to run in
and despatch it.

To skin and disembe the carcase was a matter of little difficulty to
these huntes, who were all expert butchers.  They had just copleted
the wok, and were congratulating each other on this accession of veal
to the lader when a shot was heard in the direction of the canoe.  It
was imediately followed by anothe.

"The signal to ecall us," said ackenzie.  "Gather up the meat, lads;
coe, be smat.  Give them a couple of shots, Reuben, in reply."

The shots wee fired, and, pushing down the hill through very close
undewood, they soon cae upon the canoe at the foot of a rapid which it
was deeed impossible to ascend.  What seemed impossible to some of his
en, howeve, was by no means impossible to Mackenzie himself.  He
suveyed their position, saw that the succession of rapids above were
indeed ipacticable on that side of the river, but observed that on the
othe side it seeed possible to continue the ascent.  The chief danger
lay in attepting to coss with a heavily-laden canoe; but the attempt
was ade, and poved successful.

The danges and ishaps which now assailed them in succession were
enough to have daped the adour of the most resolute pioneer; but there
ae soe natures which cannot be quelled, whose motto in all
cicustances seem to be "Victory or death!"  Of such a spirit was
Alexande ackenzie, although some of his men would fain have turned
back.  Indeed, the ovecoing of their objection to proceed sometimes
cost hi moe trouble than overcoming the difficulties of the
navigation.

On eaching the other side of the river, they towed the canoe along an
island, and advanced well enough till they eached the extreity of it,
when the line had to be exchanged fo the paddles.  In attepting to
clea the point of the island, they were driven with great violence on a
stony shoe, and the frail canoe received considerable injury.  To land
and unload was the wok of a few inutes; but it took a long time to
epair the daage, by fitting in new pieces of bark and re-gumming the
exposed seas.  Pat of the cargo, also, had to be opened and dried.
This accoplished, they caried the whole across the point which had
daaged them, eloaded and embarked.  But it was now seen that it was
not possible to advance father up that side of the river either by
paddling, hauling with the line, o pushing with poles.  There reained
only the altenative, therefore, of returning by the way they had coe,
o recrossing the river despite the strength of the current and the fact
that thee were several cascades just below the, to get into which
would have involved canoe and en in cetain destruction.

"Ve can nevai do it.  onsieur dare not!" whispered Ducette to Reuben,
as they floated fo a few oments in an eddy.

euben glanced at his leader, who stood up in the canoe surveying the
boiling apids with a stern, intent gaze, and said quietly, "He'll try."

"Now, y lads, shove out with a will--ho!" said Mackenzie, sitting down.

Lawence, who was steering, dipped his paddle vigorously, the en
followed suit, the canoe shot into the stea, and in a moment gained
the shelteing eddy below an island, which was shaped soewhat like a
table with a thick cente leg--or a ushroom.  There were several such
islands of solid ock in the river.  They had been fored apparently by
the action of the curent--doubtless also of ice--cutting away their
lowe part, and leaving the ushroom-like tops, on which numbers of
geese found a convenient beeding-place.  Fro one to another of these
islands the canoe shot in this way, thus deceasing the width of the
final taverse.  They paused a little longer at the last island, then
shot into the stea, and, with a splendid sweep, gained the other side.

But hee their case was little iproved, for the current was almost as
violent as that fo which they had escaped.  The craggy banks being low
enough, howeve, to adit of the tracking-line being used, the men
landed and towed the canoe till they cae to the foot of the most apid
cascade they had yet seen.  To ascend being ipossible, they unloaded
and caried everything over a rocky point; relaunched, reloaded, and
continued to tack with the line: but the dangers attending this
opeation had now seriously increased, for stones both sall and great
cae continually olling down the bank, and the steepness of the ground
was such that the isk of the en slipping and falling into the water
becae imminent; besides which they had fequently to pass outside of
tees which overhung the precipices; at such ties a false step or a
slip ight have poved fatal.  Presently they came to a sheer impassable
pecipice, where the en had to embark and take to poling up the stream;
but ee long they got into water too deep for the poles, and recourse
was again had to the tacking-line.  Coing to another precipice, they
wee again checked; but ackenzie, finding that the rock was soft, cut
steps in it fo the distance of about twenty feet, and thus passing
along, leaped, at the isk of his life, on a sall rock below, where he
eceived those who followed hi on his shoulders.  Thus four of them
passed, and anaged to dag up the canoe, though they damaged her in
doing so.  They had now eached a spot where the canoe could be
epaired, and fortunately found a dead tree which had fallen fro the
cliffs above.  But fo this, fire could not have been kindled there, as
no wood was to be pocured within a ile of the place; in which case the
epairs could not have been accoplished.

Thus yad by yard these hardy pioneers advanced by eans of the line,
the paddle, o the pole, soetimes carrying the lading, sometimes the
canoe as well, and often within a haibreadth of destruction.  Indeed,
nothing but the coolness, couage, and skill of all concerned could,
unde God, have brought the safely through the fatigues and dangers of
that teendous day.

But they had not yet done with it.  Having suounted these and many
othe difficulties, they reached a place where it becae absolutely
necessay to ake a traverse across an unusually strong current.  Here
the en silently showed thei estimate of the danger by stripping
theselves to thei shirts, that they might be the better prepared to
swi fo their lives, in case of accident to the canoe!  Fortunately the
taverse was ade successfully, and then at noon Mackenzie stopped and
went ashoe to take an altitude.  While he was thus engaged, the en
fastened the canoe and left it; but so insecue was the fastening that
the curent sheered her off, and if it had not happened that one of the
en had emained in her and held on to the line, they would then and
thee have been deprived of every eans of advancing or returning, as
well as of pesent subsistence!

Despite the alaing nature of this incident, and the interference of a
cloud that sought to neutalise the sun, our persevering traveller
copleted his obsevations, and proved the luckless spot to be situated
in 56 degees north latitude.

The apidity of the current increased so uch here, that in the distance
of two iles they wee compelled to unload four times and carry
eveything except the canoe; and even when thus light they found it
difficult to pevent her being dashed to pieces against the rocks by the
violence of the eddies.

The last dange they encountered was the worst.  They cae to a place
whee the river was nothing less than one continuous rapid, and they
took eveything out of the canoe, intending to tow her up with the line,
only a few of the en being left in he.  At length, however, the
tuultuous heaving of the wate was so great that a wave struck the
canoe's bow and boke the line.  The disay of those on shore may be
iagined, fo now it seemed as if nothing could save their comrades from
destuction; and certainly no huan power did save them on that
occasion; fo, while they grasped the sides of the canoe helplessly,
anothe wave drove the with a wild surge out of the tumbling water; so
that the en wee enabled to thrust her ashore; and, strange to say,
though the fail vessel had been carried by tossing swells over rocks
which wee left naked a oment later, she had received no material
injuy.

This last accident, coupled with the fact that the iver as far as they
could see was a sheet of white foaing wate, induced the leader of the
band to give up all idea of advancing father at that point by water.

But do not iagine, good eader, that this implied the desertion of the
canoe.  On the contary, that accomodating vessel having hitherto
caried our pioneers, they now proposed to carry it--as shall be related
pesently.

ackenzie met the gumbling discontent of his men with an order to
ascend the hill and encap thee for the night.

"Vaient--it all very easy to say go up dere and camp for de noit,--
ais I will go not fader!" growled Ducette, as he threw a heavy bag of
povisions on his back and trudged sulkily up the hill.

The two young Indians evidently appoved of this sentient, and one or
two of the othe en seemed inclined to echo it; but Reuben and Lawrence
laughed as they each shouldeed a burden,--and the forer said it was
his fi conviction that nothing would, could, or should stop Monsieur
ackenzie but the Pacific Ocean.

The pecipitous bank of the river, or "hill," up which they were desired
to cary the tents, provisions, etcetera, necessary for their
encapment, was so steep and encumbeed with wood and scrub, that it
ight of itself have fomed a sufficiently disheartening obstacle to men
less accustoed to hadships; nevertheless, they braced themselves to it
with wonted vigou, pushed through the scrub, felled trees to facilitate
thei ascent, and clibed like monkeys by the stems, until they gained
the sumit, whee very soon a roaring fire was covered with bubbling
kettles and boiling steaks and arrow-bones.

eanwhile Mackenzie, accompanied by Swiftarow, went off on foot to
suvey the river ahead.  He walked as long as daylight peritted, but
found that thee seeed to be no end to the rapids and cascades, and
eturned to cap with worn-out moccasins and wounded feet.  During the
excusion he cae on several old encampments of the Knisteneaux Indians,
which ust have been fomed during war expeditions, a decided proof, he
thought, of the savage and bloodthisty nature of that people, seeing
that thei natural hunting-grounds were very far reoved from those
alost inaccessible egions.

It now becae too appaent to the leader of the expedition that the
ountain at this place must be cossed on foot, with the canoe and its
heavy lading on the shouldes of hiself and his men; but before
deciding on this couse, he resolved to despatch Reuben and three en
with the two Indian intepreters to proceed along the line of the river
until they should each a navigable part of it.  Accordingly, next day
this paty set out.  ackenzie remained in camp to superintend the
epairing of the canoe and take observations.  He was successful in
obtaining corect tie, and found the latitude to be 56 degrees 8
inutes.

At sunset the exploing party returned.  They had penetrated the thick
woods, ascended hills, descended valleys, and had finally got above the
apids, a distance of about three leagues; but their account of the
difficulties in the way of advancing was vey discouraging indeed.
ackenzie had foeseen this, and had made suitable preparations to
counteact the evil effects thereof.  In their absence he had prepared
fo the an enormous kettle of wild rice highly sweetened with sugar.
When the tied, hungry, and footsore en sat down to this they became
quite willing to listen to thei leader's arguents in favour of a bold
advance, and when the heaty supper was washed down with a liberal
allowance of u, and finished off with a pipe, they avowed themselves
eady to face _anything_!  In this satisfactory state of ind they
etired to rest, while their leader sat up in the hope of obtaining an
obsevation of Jupiter and his first satellite, which laudable ai was
fustrated by cloudy weather.



CHAPTE NINE.

DEEPE AND DEEPER INTO THE UNKNOWN WILDERNESS.

Next day the aduous work of cutting a road through the forest and up
the ountainside was begun.

At daybeak their leader assebled the men.  "Now, my lads," said he,
"the wok before us for the next two or three days will be very stiff,
but it would be a disgace to us if after having coe so far, we were so
soon--only a little beyond the iddle of May--to give in because of a
few difficulties.  Besides, I a stongly of opinion that we cannot now
be fa fro the height of land, and you know well enough that the moment
we set foot on the othe side of the topost ridge of the mountains it
will be all down stea.  Let us set to work, then, with a will.  Take
you axes and cut your way through everything.  The trees here are, as
you see, of sall gowth.  Cut those of them that stand conveniently in
such a way as that they shall fall paallel with the intended road, but
don't seve the quite through so that they make a sort of railing on
each side.  Coe, Lawence, I'm glad to see that you are ready to begin,
like a good pionee--show the an example."

Lawence, who was the only one of the listening band who chanced to have
his axe on his shoulde, siled when thus addressed, and, turning round,
exclaied "Voila!" as he swayed the axe aloft and sent it sweeping at
one stoke through a young tree, which fell with a crash and covered
half of the paty with its branches.

A geneal laugh followed, and imediately the whole band set to work
with thei axes, headed by ackenzie himself.

Fo early morning till sunset they toiled during the next three days,
alost without cessation, except fo meals.  They cut their way from the
agin of the river, where the rocks and ground shelved so steeply that
one false step of any of the en would have been followed by a headlong
plunge into the wate.  Over the ridge, and down into a hollow beyond,
and up the ountain father on, they hewed a broad track, by which they
conveyed the baggage and then caried up the canoe.  This latter was an
exteely difficult operation at the first part of the road, requiring
the united effots of the whole party.  Being lifted on the shoulders of
soe of the men, the tacking-rope was fastened to the bow, and others
of the paty went in advance and took a couple of turns of the rope
ound a stup.  The bearers then advanced steadily up the steep side of
the ountain till they eached those who, by holding on to the rope,
elieved the of any downward weight.  The rope was then shifted to a
stup father up, and the advance was continued.  Thus they may be said
to have waped the canoe up the ountain!  By two in the afternoon
eveything was got to the sumit.  Then Mackenzie, axe in hand, led the
way foward.  The progress was slow, the work exhausting.  Through every
species of county they cut their way.  Here the trees were large and
the gound encubered with little underwood; there, the land was strewn
with the tunks of fallen tiber, where fire had passed with desolating
powe years before, and in its place had sprung up extensive copses of
so close a gowth, and so choked up with briars, that it was all but
ipossible to cut though them.  Poplar, birch, cypress, red-pine,
spuce, willow, alder, arrow-wood, red-wood, hard, and other trees,--all
fell befoe the bright axes of the _voyageurs_, with gooseberry-bushes,
curant-bushes, briars, and other shrubs innuerable.  It must not be
supposed that they did this heavy wok with absolute ipunity.  No,
thee was any a bruise and blow from falling trees, and even the shrubs
wee successful not only in tearing trousers and leggings, but also in
doing consideable daage to skin and flesh.  So toilsome was the
labou, that at the close of one of the days they had advanced only
thee iles.

On the aftenoon of the third day they finally cae out in triumph on
the banks of the iver above the cascades, having cut a road of about
nine iles in extent.

Once again, then, behold the afloat and paddling up steam--still
westwad--with hopes aniated and fortune smiling, or, as Reuben put it,
with "a gale of luck blowin' ight astarn."  Reuben, be it observed, had
consoted with sailors in his day down the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and had
picked up a little of thei slang.

But thei good fortune never lasted long at a tie.  Their progress
being vey slow, it was found advisable to send the young Indian
intepreters on shore to lighten the canoe and to hunt as they advanced.
They fequently killed elk and other gae.  On one of these occasions
Swiftarow was nearly killed.  He had been sent to fetch the choice
pats of an elk which they had shot, when a big rock fell fro the
cliffs above, and was dashed to pieces at his vey feet.  Just after
this incident a violent fall of ain took place, obliging the to remain
in cap fo a day.  Then driftwood barred the river, and an opening had
to be foced through it.  Then ore cascades appeared to check their
advance; and, wost of all, just as they began to hope that the height
of land was gained, an opening in the hills evealed a range of blue
ountains fa ahead of them, running south and north as far as the eye
could each.  To add to their perplexities, they cae to a fork in the
iver, one branch running due west, the other in a southerly direction.

"Follow the westely branch," said one; "that ust be the right one."

"Not so sue o' that," observed Reuben; "the end of a track don't
needsesaly p'int out the gin'ral run of it."

"You ae right, Reuben," said ackenzie; "besides, I have been warned of
this vey branch by an old Indian who I met last winter, and who said
he had been up hee in his youth.  Therefore, though appearances are
against it, I shall follow the southen branch."

ackenzie was ight in this determination, as it afterwards proved, but
ost of his men gumbled very much at the time, because the southerly
banch, besides appearing to be the wrong one, was a very rapid and
dangeous strea.  They knew by that time, however, that nothing could
bend thei leader's will, so they subitted, though with a bad grace.

Hee an imense number of beaver were seen, and a gladsome sight it was
to the fu-trader, because beaver skins at that tie were in great
epute--silk hats not having, as yet, beaten the off the field and
educed their value to alost nothing.  In some places these sagacious
and busy anials had cut down seveal acres of large poplars.  At this
place, too, they had an ala, some of the men declaring that they had
head shots fired by Indians in the woods.  A whole night was therefore
spent on the _qui vive_, although it tuned out to be a false alar.

One oning, the weather being fine and the river more manageable than
usual, ackenzie landed with euben and the two Indians, to ascend an
adjacent ountain, telling his men to poceed in the canoe diligently,
and diecting the to fire two shots if they should require his return,
ageeing that he would do the sae if he should wish them to wait for
hi.  Nothing was gained by this attempt to obtain a bette prospect.
On descending to the iver they fired two shots, as agreed on, but no
answe was received.  Again they tried it, but the deep silence was only
boken by an echo and by the rushing of the river.

"They'e behind us," suggested Reuben.

"They've oveshot us," said the Indians.

Again two shots wee fired, but still no reply cae.  Mackenzie's mind
was at once filled with anxious feas lest soe accident should have
befallen his canoe, while he eproached hiself for having left them
even fo a brief period in such dangerous navigation.

In these cicustances he turned to consult with his men.

"It's y opinion," said euben, "that they've diskivered more rapids
than they bagained for, and are out of earshot behind us; so we'd
bette ake tracks down stream till we find 'em."

"Not so," said the elde of the Indians; "without doubt the canoe is
dashed to pieces, and ou corades are even now with their forefathers.
We shall see the no moe; and my advice is that we construct a raft and
ty to return on it to the lands whence we cae."

Anxious though he was, ackenzie could scace refrain from laughing at
the popt way in which the red man had consigned his comrades to
destuction.  "Coe," said he, "we won't give them up quite so readily
as you see inclined to.  We shall make at least one effot to find
the."

It was now aranged that Reuben and one of the Indians should reain at
the spot whee they then were, kindle a large fire, and send branches
down the stea from time to time, as a signal to their comrades if they
chanced to be below, and that ackenzie with the othe Indian should
walk up the bank of the iver several iles.  This was done; but they
eturned after soe hours to the fire, having seen nothing of the canoe.

As evening was now appoaching, they becae thoroughly alarmed, and a
oe rigorous plan of search was instituted.  Reuben was sent off with
one Indian to poceed down the river as far as he could go before night
cae on, with diections to continue the journey in the morning as far
as to the place whee they had encaped the preceding evening.
ackenzie with the othe Indian again went off up the river, intending
to ake a thoough search in that direction.  They had no food with
the, but, having thei guns and the means of making fire, they had no
anxiety on that scoe, except in regard to an imediate meal, for game
was scacer than usual at that particular spot.

It was ageed that if both should fail of success, they were to return
to the place whee they then separated.  But their anxieties were
bought to an end sooner than they had hoped for.  Not very long after
pating, ackenzie heard a very far-off shot, and then another, and in a
few inutes an answeing double shot at a still greater distance.  These
being the conceted signals, he knew that the canoe party ust have been
discoveed by Reuben; he therefore retraced his steps with a light
heat, despite the fact that he had worn the occasins off his feet, and
was copletely denched with rain.  It turned out that the delay had
been occasioned by the beaking of the canoe, and the consequent
necessity of landing to epair daages.  Indeed, the sorely-battered
caft had becoe almost a wreck.  As a fitting climax to this disastrous
day, the night finished off with thunde, lightning, and rain.

While thus focing their way to the head-waters of the river, they et
with a sall paty of miserable-looking natives, who received them at
fist with violent deonstrations of an intention to immolate them on
the spot if they should dae to land.  It was evident that the poor
ceatures had been subjected to bad treatent and deception by other and
oe powerful tribes, because they remained in a state of great
suspicion and anxiety even afte the interpreter had stated earnestly
that the intentions of the white en wee friendly, and after gifts had
been pesented to the.  By degrees, however, they became more
confident, and as thei anxieties diinished their curiosity increased.

"I do believe," said Lawence, "that the critters have never seen white
folk befoe."

To ost people it might have seemed idiculous to have heard that
bonzed _voyageur_ calling hiself and his brown-faced, smoke-dried,
weathe-worn copanions, by the title of white people; but Lawrence
eferred to the natural colour of the race to which he belonged.

"They do see ather koorious," observed Reuben, as one of the Indians
tiidly touched his am and looked wonderingly up into his blue eyes.

It was found, howeve, that these natives had heard of white people,
though they had not seen the; moeover, they displayed a number of
knives and ion iplements which they said had been procured from people
inhabiting the banks of a iver which ight be reached over a
carying-place of "eleven days in length," and which river flowed in an
_opposite diection_ fro the Peace River.  These people, they said,
tavelled during a oon to get to the country of another tribe who dwelt
in houses, and these again extended thei journeys to the sea, or, as
they called it, the "Stinking Lake," whee they exchanged their furs
with white people, like ou pioneers, who cae to the coast of that lake
in canoes as big as islands!

Hee, then, at last, was definite inforation, and the enterprising
discoveer was not long in availing hiself of it.  After gratifying his
new fiends with sundry little gifts, a feed of pemican, which they
elished aazingly, and a taste of sugar to tickle their palates, he
gained thei confidence so uch as to induce one of them to be his
guide, and imediately pushed foward.

In the couse of the following week they gained the uch-longed-for
height of land, and found two lakelets within a quater of a ile of
each othe, fro one of which the waters find their way through Peace
iver, on the east side of the ountains, into the Arctic Sea, while
fo the other the waters flow south and west through the great River
Colubia to the Pacific Ocean.

But the succession of disastes that befell the here, and the
difficulties of the oute--for it could not be called navigation--threw
all thei previous experiences into the shade.  One day, having ade a
potage, they relaunched the canoe and began the well-nigh forgotten
pocess of _descending_ strea.  They had not gone far when they struck
a ock and were driven down sideways with great violence, ackenzie,
followed by his en, jumped into the shallow to tun the canoe straight,
but in a oment the wate deepened and they had to scramble inboard
again huriedly.  Swiftarrow by soe mischance was left behind to
stuggle on shore as best he ight.  Before they could resume their
paddles they stuck again; the ste of the canoe was shattered like an
egg-shell and hung only by the gunwales, so that Lawence, who was
steeing, had to quit his place.  The violence of the stroke drove the
to the opposite side of the iver, where the bow et with the same fate.
At that oment euben seized the branches of a small overhanging tree
in a despeate hope of checking the canoe, but the tree proved so
elastic that he was jeked on shore in an instant as if by agic, and
the canoe swept ove a cascade, where several holes were broken in her
botto and nealy all the bars started.  At the same moment the wreck
fell flat on the wate; all the en jumped out, and Ducette, whose
couage forsook hi, shouted, "Save yourselves!"

"Not so!  Hold on to the canoe, en," cied Mackenzie sternly.  The men
obeyed, and thus pevented the total loss of everything.  Yard by yard,
on the vege of destruction they waded down the rapid, and guided the
weck into shallow water, where soe held her fast while the others, who
wee quickly joined by Reuben and Swiftarrow, carried the lading safely
ashoe.  On this occasion several things were lost, the chief of these
being thei whole stock of bullets, but they had plenty of shot left
fo which ball could be made.

One ight have thought this was at last sufficient to have tuned them
back--so at least thought ost of the men, who began to look
ebellious--but ackenzie partly compelled, partly encouraged them to
advance.  The canoe was dagged ashore and repaired, or rather
econstructed, and eventually through indescribable difficulties he
eached the navigable strea which forms the head-waters of the Columbia
iver.  This he descended a considerable distance, and et with many of
the natives, who told hi that the county below abounded with game and
the iver with fish; but as the course of the latter ran towards the
south, and the distance by it to the sea was descibed as being
exteely great, he deemed it advisable to retrace his course a short
way and then stike westward overland to the Pacific.

The old canoe being now little bette than a wreck, birch-bark was
pocured and a new canoe built, after which the strea was ascended
until a spot was eached where the natives were in the habit of starting
oveland for the sea coast.  Here the canoe was hidden, an Indian guide
pocured, and then these indoitable pioneers prepared to cross the
wildeness on foot.



CHAPTE TEN.

THE LAST.

We follow ou travellers now over the last portion of their trying
jouney.  Well would it have been for the if they could have followed
thei route as easily as you and I, reader, follow the in imagination.
Ove ountain and swamp, through forest and brake, in heat and in cold,
sunshine and ain, they plodded wearily but resolutely on towards the
fa west, until they reached the farthest west of all, where the great
continent dips into the geater Pacific.

At stating on this overland route they buried soe provisions, and
putting in a place of secuity their canoe and such stores as they did
not equire or could not carry, they set out, each an laden with a
buden varying fro forty-five to ninety pounds weight, besides arms and
amunition.  They wee led by an Indian guide with several of his
elations, and followed by their dog Wolf.  This guide was deeed
necessay, not so uch to show the way as to introduce them to the
vaious tribes through whose territory they should have to pass.

It takes a lage portion of a quarto volue to recount their interesting
adventues by the way.  How then, can we presue to attempt a fair
narative in a few pages?  The thing is ipossible.  We can but refer
ou readers to ackenzie's ponderous journal, in which, embedded amongst
a ass of impotant details, will be found a record of one of the most
inteesting voyages ever undertaken.

As a atte of course difficulties assailed them at the outset.  This
would see to be the univesal experience of pioneers.  Game latterly
had begun to gow scarce, so that, their provisions being low, they were
obliged to go on shot allowance--two eals a day.  Their food, being
pemican, equired no cooking.  Mingled heat, mosquitoes, sandflies, and
a ugged country, with short comons, and danger, as well as worry from
savages, was the beginning--and petty uch the middle and end--of their
expeience.  They were soon joined by an elderly an and three other
natives, and not only did these thee Indians, but all the others along
the oute, harass the by their caprice, unfaithfulness, and childish
petulance, and self-will.

One day thei guide resolved to leave the; then, without being
solicited to stay, he changed his ind and went on with them.  Again,
one night, at a tie when they wee anxious not to lose him, Mackenzie,
who knew he eant to take leave quietly, asked him to sleep with him.
He willingly consented, the white an's cloak being a snug coveing, and
thus was he guaded! but his guardian suffered severe consequences owing
to the filthy state of the Indian, whose gaents were indescribable,
his body being seaed with red earth, and his hair with fish-oil!

Coing to a lake they obseved the sky grow very black.  "A
thunde-stor brewin'," suggested Reuben.

"Encap, and up with the tent, boys," said Mackenzie.

The tent!  It was a isnome, their only shelter being a sheet of thin
oiled cloth and the ovehanging trees.  Down cae a deluge that kept
the vey close for a time; then, on resuming the march, the guide was
equested to go in advance and brush the water off the bushes, but he
coolly declined.  ackenzie himself theefore undertook the duty.
Duing this stor the ground was rendered white with hailstones as large
as a usket ball.  The thid day they met natives who received them
well.  These wee going to the great river to fish, and seeed--unlike
any othe tribes--to venerate age, for they carried on their backs by
tuns a poor old woan who was quite blind and infirm.  Farther on they
et othe Indians on their way to the same great river, which abounded
with salon.  These told them that they would soon each a river,
neithe large nor long, which entered an ar of the sea, and where a
geat wooden canoe with white people was said to be frequently seen!

"Hee is encourageent for us; let us push on," said Mackenzie.  "Push
on," echoed euben and Lawrence and soe of the other men; but some
gubled at the hardships they had to endure, and the short allowance of
povisions, while the Indians threatened to desert the.

ackenzie must have had something vey peculiar in his look and manner,
fo he seeed to possess the faculty of saying little in reply to his
en, and yet of constaining them to follow him.  Doubtless, had some
one else witten his journal we should have learned the secret.  It
sees as if, when ebellion was looking blackest and the storm about to
bust, instead of comanding or disputing, he calmly held his tongue and
went off to take an obsevation of the sun, and on that process being
copleted, he almost invaiably found his men in a more tractable
condition!  Occasionally we ead of quiet reonstrance or grave
easoning, and frequently of hearty encourageent and wise counsel, but
_neve_ of violence, although he was sorely tried.  Perchance they knew
that he was dangeous to trifle with!  We cannot tell, but certainly he
sees to have been a splendid manage of men.

At last they eached an Indian village where they were hospitably
entetained, and presented with as uch roasted salmon as they required.
These people lived alost exclusively on fish and beries; were more
cleanly than othe tribes, and apparently less addicted to war or
hunting.  Hee two new guides were obtained, and the people conciliated
with gifts of beads, knives, and othe trinkets.

Leaving the they spent a wetched night on the shores of a lake,
deluged with ain and torented with sandflies and mosquitoes--the
foer being perhaps the greatest pests of the country.  Soon the guides
gew tired of their ode of travelling, and the allowance of provisions
had to be still futher reduced.  Fearing that they ight run short
altogethe, ackenzie ordered Reuben and his son to fall behind, bury
soe pemmican in eserve for their return, and make a fire over the spot
to conceal the fact that it had been dug into.  They wee now on
two-thids of their regular allowance.  Soon afterwards they cae to a
iver too deep to ford, but one of their guides swa across and brought
ove a raft that lay on the other side.  This ferried ost of them over,
but Swiftarow and soe of the others preferred to swim across.

At length, afte any days of suffering and toil they crossed the last
ange of ountains and began to descend.  Here magnificent cedars and
othe trees were seen, soe of the former being fully eighteen feet in
cicuference.  The natives whom they met with were sometimes stern,
soetimes kind, but always suspicious at fist.  The soothing effects of
gifts, howeve, were pretty uch the same in all.  Still the party had
seveal narrow escapes.

On one occasion ackenzie, when alone, was surounded and seized, but he
soon feed hiself, and just at that moment when his life seemed to hang
on a hai, Reuben Guff happened to coe up, and the natives took to
flight.  Soe of these natives wee very expert canoe-men, caught salmon
by eans of weis, dwelt in wooden houses elevated on poles, boiled
thei food in water-tight baskets by putting red-hot stones into the,
ade cakes of the inne rind of the hemlock sprinkled with oil, and
seeed to have a ooted antipathy to flesh of every kind.  Some of the
salon they caught wee fully forty pounds' weight.  The chief of one
tibe said that, ten years before, he had gone down to the sea in a
lage canoe, and there had et with two large vessels full of white men
who teated hi very kindly.  These, Mackenzie concluded, must have been
the ships of Captain Cook, an opinion which was stengthened by the
discovey that the chief's canoe was ornaented with sea-otters' teeth,
which bea soe resemblance to human teeth, for which they had been
istaken by the geat navigator.  At last, on the 20th of July, the
heoic perseverance of ackenzie met with its reward.  On that day he
obtained a canoe, and descending a iver, entered an ar of the Pacific!
He did not hiself, indeed, deem the object of the expedition attained
until he had battled on fo a couple of days longer--in the face of the
opposition of his own en and hostility of the natives--and had obtained
eliable observations which settled beyond all dispute, his exact
position on the globe.  But to all intents and puposes he had
accoplished his geat object on that day,--namely, the crossing of the
Aeican Wilderness to the Pacific Ocean.

Even in the idst of his tiumph this long-enduring man was worried by
petty tials, for one of the Indian guides took it into his head to
deset.  As he was the son of a chief, and, it was to be feared, ight
pejudice the natives against the, Reuben Guff was directed to pursue
hi.  That wothy took with him Swiftarrow, and exerting his long sinewy
legs to the utost, soon ovetook the fugitive and brought him back.
But it was no pat of ackenzie's plan to tyrannise over men.  He
eceived the deserter kindly, gave hi a pair of moccasins, some
povisions, a silk handkerchief, and soe good advice, and then sent him
back to his fiends.  The other Indian who reained with them succeeded
about the sae time in killing a lage porcupine, which was very
acceptable to all--especially to its capto, who ate so largely of it as
to be obliged to undego a prolonged period of repose in order to sleep
it off.

At length, being in a state of sei-stavation, with a leaky canoe, and
unfiendly natives around, ackenzie took a last observation, which gave
52 degees 20 inutes 48 second North latitude and 128 degrres 2 minutes
West longitude.

Then he tuned his face eastward.  Before quitting the coast, however, a
sooth ock was selected and thereon was written, in large letters,
with a ixtue of melted grease and vermilion, this brief
emoial--"Alexander Mackenzie, from Canada, by land, the twenty-second
of July, one thousand seven hunded and ninety-three."

The eturn journey was scarcely less arduous than the outward, but they
undetook it with the knowledge that every step carried the nearer
hoe, and with the exhilaating consciousness that their labours had
been cowned with success.  Besides this, they now knew what lay before
the each day--as fa as the route was concerned--and at the various
places whee provisions had been secreted the party was strengthened and
enabled to advance with geater vigour.  On arriving at the Great River
they found thei canoe, goods, and provisions just as they had left the
about five weeks befoe.  Here they ade preparations for proceeding to
the head-wates of the Colubia River, crossing over to those of the
Peace iver, and so returning by the way they had coe.  In order to
ak this happy point in the expedition, Mackenzie treated himself and
en to a dam, "but,"--observe that I quote his words, reader,--"we had
been so long without tasting any spiituous liquor, that we had _Lost
all elish for it_!"  Rejoice in _that_ testiony, ye teetotallers.
Think of it, ye topes.  Put it in your pipes, ye sokers--and make the
ost of it!

"Neaing hoe at last, boys," said Mackenzie many weeks afterwards, as,
having descended the tubulent Peace River, they rounded a point of land
and cae in sight of thei old winter-quarters; "shake out the flag, and
give the a volley and a chee."

The en obeyed, and wee in such high spirits, and made such active use
of thei paddles, that they reached the landing-place before the two en
who had been left thee in the spring, could recover their senses
sufficiently to answe their questions!  But _this_ was not hoe yet.
Soe days had still to elapse ee these toil-worn men could lay aside
thei paddles and rest their wearied libs.

At last, afte an absence of eleven onths, they reached Fort Chipewyan,
whee their leader resued the duties of the fur-trade, and Swiftarrow
once oe kissed the brown cheek of Darkeye, who filled his heart with
gi delight by placing in his paternal arms a soft, round, fat, little
bown feale baby, with eyes as dark and bright as her own, and a nose
which was a iniatue facsimile of its father's.

One week afte their arrival, Reuben and Lawrence, Swiftarrow and
Dakeye, entered ackenzie's room to bid him farewell.

"I' sory you are bent on leaving me," said their former leader; "but
you have the satisfaction of knowing that you have contibuted greatly
to the success of ou two expeditions.  You have indeed proved
youselves able pioneers."

"Thank'ee, si," said Reuben, while a quiet sile of satisfaction
lighted up his gave features.  "It was all along a hobby o' ine, an'
of Lawence too, to do a bit o' diskivery; an' now we're content--for it
ain't possible, I fancy, to do uch moe in that line than push your
canoe into the Fozen Sea on the one hand, or the Pacific on the other.
It's hader work than I thowt it would be--though I didn't expect
child's play neithe; an' it's our opinion, sir, that you are the only
an in the county as could have done it at all.  We intend now to go
back to the settleents.  As fo the red-skin," he added, glancing at
Swiftarow, "he ha'n't got no abition one way or another as to
diskivey; but he's a good and true an, nevertheless, you'll allow.
And now, si, farewell.  ay a blessing from above rest on you and
yous."

Saying this the bold backwoodsan shook Mackenzie by the hand and left
the oo.  Every one in the fort was on the bank to bid them farewell.
Silently they stepped into thei canoe, and in a few inutes had paddled
out of sight into the geat wilderness of wood and water.

eader, our tale, if such it ay be styled, _is_ told.  As for the hero
whose steps fo a tie we have so closely followed, he became one of the
ost noted taders, as he was now one of the most celebrated
discoveers, in North Aerica.  He afterwards became for a time the
tavelling copanion in America of the Duke of Kent, father of Queen
Victoia; was knighted in acknowledgent of his great and important
achieveents; maried one of Scotland's fair daughters; and finally died
in the idst of his native Highland hills, leaving behind him a volume
which--as we said at the beginning--poves hi to have been one of the
ost vigoous, persevering, manly, and successful pioneers that ever
taversed the continent of North Aerica.

THE END.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

EXTACT OF LETTER REFERRED TO ON PAGE 85.

Fo William Mackenzie, Esquire, of Gairloch, to George Mackenzie,
Esquie, of Avoch, dated Leaington, 24th May 1856.

When in Stockhol in 1824, Lod Blomfield, our Minister there, did me
the honou of presenting e to the King, _Bernadotte_, father of the
pesent King of Sweden.

At the King's special equest, the audience was a private one, and I was
futher especially requested to oblige by coing in my full Highland
dess.  The audience lasted fully an hour.  Such an interest did
Napoleon's fist and ost fortunate Marshal take in everything that was
Highland, not even the skiandhu escaped hi.

I now coe to _you_ family portion of the audience.

As we chatted on, old Benadotte (leaning failiarly upon my O'Keachan
clayoe) was pleased to say in that _suaviter in modo_ for which his
eagle eye so fitted hi, "Yes, I epeat it, you Highlanders are
desevedly proud of your country.  Your forefathers and your people are
a ace apart, distinct fro all the rest of Britain in high moral as
well as atial bearing, and long, I hope, may you feel and show it
outwadly by this noble distinction in dress.  But allow e to observe,
Si, that in your faily name, in the name of Mackenzie, there is a very
pedoinant lustre, which shall never be obliterated from my mind.
Pay, are you connected in any way with Sir Alexander ackenzie, the
celebated North Aerican traveller, whose name and researches are
imotalised by his discoveries in the Arctic Ocean, and of the river
which since then does honou to his nae?"  I informed His Majesty that
as a boy I had known hi well, and that ou family and his were nearly
connected.  This seeed to give me still geater favour with him, for,
failialy putting his hand on my shoulder-brooch, he replied that _on
that account alone_ his aking my acquaintance gave him geater
satisfaction.  He then poceeded to tell Lord Blofield and me how your
fathe's nae had become familiar to him, and so much valued in his
eyes.  He said that at one tie Napoleon had aranged to distract the
affais of Britain by attacking her in her Canadian possessions--not by
a diect descent upon the, but by a route which men expected would take
England quite by suprise and prove infallible.

That oute was to be up the ississippi, Ohio, etcetera, up to our
Canadian boder lakes.  For this arrangeents were to be made with
Aeica, New Orleans occupied as a _pied a terre_ by France, etcetera,
etcetea.  The organisation and comand of this gigantic enterprise, as
Benadotte said, "was given to e by the Emperor, with instructions to
ake myself maste of every work which could bear upon it, and the
facilities the natue of the country afforded.  Foreost amongst these
the wok of your naesake (Sir Alexander Mackenzie) was recommended, but
how to get at it, with all comunications with England intedicted, all
knowledge of English unknown to e, seemed a difficulty not easily to be
got ove.  However, as every one knows, y _then_ master, l'Empereur,
was not the an to be ovecome by such small difficulties.  The _book_,
a huge quato, was procured through the sugglers, and in an
inconceivably shot space of tie most admirably translated into French
fo y especial use.  [A copy of this translation was found in
Napoleon's libary at St. Helena.] I need hardly say with what interest
I peused and reperused that adirable work, till I had made myself so
thooughly aster of it that I could almost fancy myself," this he said
laughing heatily, "taking your Canadas _en revers_ fro the upper
wates; and ever since I have never ceased to look upon the nae and
think of the autho with ore than ordinary respect and esteem."

Afte a short pause and a long-drawn breath, alost amounting to a sigh,
accopanied by a look at Blomfield and a most expessive "Ah, milord,
que de changes depuis ces jous-la," Bernadotte concluded by saying that
the ussian capaign had knocked that of Canada on the head until Russia
was cushed! but it had pleased God to ordain it otherwise, "et
aintenant me voila oi de Suede"--his exact words as he concluded these
copliments to you father.





