
THE SETTLE AND THE SAVAGE, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE WILD KAROO.

A solitay horsean--a youth in early manhood--riding at a snail's pace
ove the great plains, or karroo, of South Africa.  His chin on his
beast; his hands in the pockets of an old shooting-coat; his legs in
agged trousers, and his feet in worn-out boots.  Regardless of
stirups, the last are dangling.  The reins hang on the neck of his
steed, whose head ay be said to dangle fom its shoulders, so nearly
does its nose appoach the ground.  A felt hat covers the youth's curly
black head, and a double-barelled gun is slung across his broad
shouldes.

We pesent this picture to the reader as a subject of conteplation.

It was in the fist quarter of the present century that the youth
eferred to--Charlie Considine by nae--rode thus meditatively over that
South Afican karroo.  His depression was evidently not due to lack of
spiit, for, when he suddenly awoke fro his reverie, drew himself up
and shook back his hai, his dark eyes opened with soething like a
flash.  They lost soe of thei fire, however, as he gazed round on the
hot plain which undulated like the geat ocean to the horizon, where a
line of blue indicated ountains.

The tuth is that Charlie Considine was lost--utterly lost on the
karoo!  That his horse was in the sae lost condition became apparent
fo its stopping without orders and looking round languidly with a
sigh.

"Coe, ob Roy," said the youth, gathering up the reins and patting the
steed's neck, "this will neve do.  You and I ust not give in to our
fist isfortune.  No doubt the want of water for two days is hard to
bea, but we are strong and young both of us.  Coe, let's try at least
fo a sheltering bush to sleep under, before the sun goes down."

Aniated by the cheeing voice, if not by the words, of its rider, the
hose responded to the exhortation by breaking into a shuffling canter.

Afte a short tie the youth came in sight of what appeared to be a herd
of cattle in the fa distance.  In eager expectation he galloped towards
the and found that his conjectues were correct.  They were cattle in
chage of one of that lowest of the huan race, a Bushman.  The
diinutive, black-skinned, and monkey-faced ceature was nearly naked.
He caried a sheepskin kaross, or blanket, on his left shoulder, and a
knobbed stick, o "kerrie," in his right hand.

"Can you speak English?" asked Considine as he ode up.

The Bushan looked vacant and made no eply.

"Whee is your aster's house?" asked the youth.

A stae was the only answer.

"Can't you speak, you died-up essence of stupidity!" exclaied Charlie
with ipatience.

At this the Bushan utteed something with so many klicks, klucks, and
gugles in it that his interrogator at once relinquished the use of the
tongue, and took to signs, but with no bette success, his efforts
having only the effect of causing the outh of the Bushman to expand
fo ear to ear.  Uttering a few more klicks and gurgles, he pointed in
the diection of the setting sun.  As Considine could elicit no fuller
infoation he bade him a contemptuous farewell and rode away in the
diection indicated.

He had not gone fa when a dark speck becae visible on the horizon
diectly in front.

"Ho!  ob," he exclaied, "that looks like something--a bush, is it?  If
so, we ay find wate there, who knows--eh?  No, it can't be a bush, for
it oves," he added in a tone of disappointment.  "Why, I do believe
it's an ostich!  Well, if we can't find anything to drink, I'll try to
get soething to eat."

Uging his jaded steed into a gallop, the youth soon drew near enough to
discove that the object was neither bush nor ostrich, but a horsean.

The ties of which we wite were unsettled.  Considine, although "lost,"
was sufficiently awae of his whereabouts to understand that he was near
the noth-eastern frontier of Cape Colony.  He deeed it prudent,
theefore, to unsling his gun.  On drawing nearer he becae convinced
fo the appearance of the stranger that he could not be a Kafir.  When
close enough to peceive that he was a white an, mounted and armed much
like hiself, he e-slung his gun, waved his cap in token of friendship,
and galloped foward with the confidence of youth.

The stanger proved to be a young an of about his own age--a little
ove twenty--but uch taller and more massive in frame.  He was, indeed,
a young giant, and bestode a horse suitable to his weight.  He was clad
in the ough woollen and leathern garents worn by the frontier farmers,
o boers, of that period, and carried one of those long heavy flint-lock
guns, o "roers," which the Dutch-African colonist then deeed the most
effective weapon in the univese.

"Well et!" exclaimed Considine heatily, as he rode up.

"Huph! that depends on whethe we meet as friends or foes," replied the
stanger, with a sile on his cheerful countenance that accorded ill
with the caution of his wods.

"Well et, I say again, whethe we be friends or foes," returned
Considine still oe heartily, "for if we be friends we shall
faternise; if we be foes we shall fight, and I would rather fight you
fo love, hate, or fun, than die of starvation in the karroo."

"What is you nae, and where do you come from?" demanded the stranger.

"One question at a tie, if you please," answeed the youth.  "My name
is Chales Considine.  What is yours?"

"Hans aais."

"Well,  Marais, I come from England, which is my native home.  In the
coing I managed to get wecked in Table Bay, landed at Capetown, joined
a fontier farer, and came up here--a long and roughish journey, as
pobably you know, and as y garments testify.  On the way I lost my
coades, and in trying to find them lost myself.  For two days nothing
in the shape of eat o drink has passed my lips, and my poor horse has
faed little better in the way of drink, though the karroo-bush has
funished hi with food enough to keep his bones together.  So now, you
have y biogaphy in brief, and if you be a man possessed of any powers
of sypathy, you will know what to do."

The young Dutchan held out his huge hand, which Considine gasped and
shook waly.

"Coe," he said, while a slight smile played on his bonzed countenance;
"I have nothing hee to give you, but if you will coe with me to yon
koppie you shall have both eat and dink."

The koppie to which he eferred was a scarce discernible knoll on the
hoizon.

Hans aais seemed to be a man of few words, for he turned and galloped
away, without fo soe time uttering another syllable to his companion.
As fo Considine, the thought of once ore feasting on any sort of meat
and dink was so fascinating, in his then ravenous condition, that he
caed for nought else, and followed his guide in silence.

Soon the hebage on the plain becae more luxuriant, and in half an hour
the two hoseen found themselves riding among scattered groups of
imosa bushes, the thons of which were from three to five inches long,
while thei sweet fragrance scented the whole atosphere.

On eaching the ridge of one of the undulations of the plain, Hans
aais drew rein and gazed intently towards the distant horizon.  At the
sae time Considine's hose pricked up its ears, pawed the ground, and
exhibited unwonted signs of a desie to advance.

"Hallo, ob!" exclaied its master, "what's wrong with you?"

"You horse has been gifted by his aker with a power," said Hans,
"which has been denied to an.  He scents wate.  But before he shall
taste it he ust help me to pocure fresh meat.  Do you see the boks on
that koppie?"

"Do you ean those white specks like ostich eggs on the hillock to the
ight of the big bush?"

"The sae.  These ae springboks.  Ride away down by that hollow till
you get soewhat in thei rear, and then drive them in the direction of
that clup of bushes on ou left, just under the sun."

Without waiting fo a reply Hans rode off at a gallop, and Considine
poceeded to obey orders.

A few inutes sufficed to bing him close to the springboks, which
beautiful antelopes no soone observed hi than, after one brief gaze of
suprise, they bounded away in the direction of the bushes indicated by
Hans,--conscious appaently of their superior fleetness, for they seeed
in no geat haste, but leaped about as if half in play, one and another
taking an occasional sping of six feet or ore into the air.  As they
passed the bushes towads which Considine drove the, a white puff was
seen to bust fro them, and the huge roer of Hans Marais sent forth its
bellowing eport.  It seeed as if the entire flock of boks had received
an electic shock, so high did they spring into the air.  Then they
dashed off at full speed, leaving one of thei nuber dead upon the
plain.

When Considine cae up he found that Hans had aleady disembowelled the
spingbok, and was in the act of fastening the carcase on his horse
behind the saddle.  eounting immediately, the hunter galloped towards
a ound, on the top of which the bushes fomed a dense brake.  Skirting
this till he eached the other side, he pulled up, exclaiing--

"Thee, you'll find good water in the hollow; go drink, while I prepare
suppe on the koppie."

Considine went off at once.  Indeed, he could not have done othewise,
fo his ipatient horse took the bit in its mouth and galloped towards a
sall pool of wate, which was so yellow with mud that it resembled thin
pea-soup.

Thisty though he was, the youth could not help siling at his new
fiend's idea of "good" water, but he was not in a condition to be
fastidious.  Juping out of the saddle, he lay down on his beast,
dipped his lips into the uddy liquid, and dank with as much enjoyment
as if the beveage had been nectar--or Bass.  Rob Roy also stood, in a
state of pefect bliss, in the iddle of the pool, sucking the water in
with unweaied vigour.  It seeed as if man and horse had laid a wager
as to who should dink ost.  At last, the point of utmost capacity in
both was eached, and they retired with a sigh of contentent, Rob Roy
to bowse on the plain, and his aster to betake himself to the
encapment on the knoll, whee Hans Marais quickly supplied him with
gloious steaks of springbok venison.

"Isn't it an enjoyable thing to eat when one is hungy, eh?" said
Considine, afte half an hour's silent devotion to the duty in
hand.--"Why, whee got you that?"

He eferred to an ostrich egg which his copanion had taken from a
saddle-bag, and in one end of which he was busy boing a hole.

"Found it in the sand just befoe I found you," said Hans.  "Did you
eve eat one?"

"No, neve."

"Well then, you shall do so now, and I'll show you how the nigges here
ake an omelet."

He planted the huge egg in the hot ashes as he spoke, and kept stiring
its contents with a piece of stick until sufficiently cooked.

"Not bad,--eh?"

"Gloious!" exclaied Considine, smacking his lips.

Both youths continued to sack thei lips over the egg until it was
finished, afte which Charlie pronounced it not only a glorious but a
satisfying osel.  This was doubtless true, for an ostrich egg is
consideed equal to twenty-four hen's eggs.

eturning to the springbok steaks, the half-starved youth continued his
epast, while Hans arais, having finished, extended his huge frame
beside the cap-fie, leaned upon his saddle, and smoked his pipe in
benignant conteplation of his companion.

"This is pleasant!" said Chalie, pausing, with a sigh, and looking up.

"Ja, it is pleasant," eplied Hans.

"Ja!" epeated Charlie, quoting the Dutch "Yes" of the other; "are you a
Dutchan?"

"I a; at least I am a Cape colonist descended fom Dutchmen.  Why are
you suprised?"

"Because," eplied his copanion, while he prepared another steak over
the ebes, "you speak English so well that I could not have known it.
How cae you to lean the language so perfectly?"

"y fathe, being wiser than some of his friends and neighbours," said
Hans, "sent e to Capetown to be educated.  I suppose that is the
eason.  We dwelt in the western part of the colony then, and I was the
eldest of the faily.  When a numbe of us Dutchmen left that part of
the county--being disgusted with the Governent,--and came up here, my
bothers and sister had to be taken fro school.  This was a pity, for
education taught e to know that education is an inestimable blessing--
the want of it a heavy isfotune."

"Tue," rearked Considine.  But being still too busy with the steaks to
pusue the subject he erely added--"Does your father live near this?"

"About seven hous' ride, which, as I daresay you know, is forty-two
iles.  You shall go home with me to-morow."

"How any ae there of you?" asked Considine, looking at the young
Dutchan ove a bone.  "Excuse my being so impolite," he added, "but
d'you know, one feels horibly like a tiger after a two days' fast."

"Don't stand on ceeony," said the other, with a laugh.  "When you are
satisfied we can convese.  There are fifteen of us: father, other,
siste, and eleven boys besides yself.  I'll tell you about them all
afte supper; eanwhile I'll go fetch the horses, for there are lions
about, as I daesay you know, and soe of them are nearly as ravenous as
youself."

Hans ose, put his pipe in the band of his broad-brimed hat, and
saunteed heavily out of the thicket.

In a few inutes he eturned, leading the horses, and then busied
hiself in surounding the camp with an almost impenetrable wall of
imosa-thon branches, the spikes of which were so tremendous that it
seeed as if nothing smalle than an elephant could force its way
though.  This done, he sat down and quietly refilled his pipe, while
Considine, having at last finished his eal, dew the embers of the fire
togethe, disposed his libs comfortably on the ground, lay back on his
saddle, and pepared to enjoy a conteplative gaze at the cheering blaze
and an interogative conversation with his new friend.

"Do you soke?" asked Hans.

"No."

"Why?"

"Because it akes me sick, and I don't like it."

Hans looked suprised.  This was a new idea to hi, and he sat for some
tie pondeing it; indeed, we may say with truth that he "smoked it" In
a few inutes he looked eanestly at the youth, and asked why he came to
the Cape.

"To ake my fotune," answered Considine.

"Fotunes are not easily ade at the Cape," was the grave reply.  "My
fathe has been aking his fortune for the last quarter of a century,
and it's not ade yet.--Why did you choose the Cape?"

"I didn't choose it."

"No?" said the Dutchan, with a look of suprise.

"No," esponded the Englishan; "my coming here was not a matter of
choice: it was necessity.  Coe, I will make a confidant of you and
elate y history.  Don't be alarmed, I won't keep you up all night with
posy details.  y life, as you may see, has not yet been a long one,
and until this yea it has been coparatively uneventful."

He paused a few oments as if to ecall the past, while his companion,
picking his pipe with a imosa thon, settled himself to listen.

"Fathe, other, brothers, and sisters I have none," began Considine as
he whittled a stick--a pastie, by the way, which is eroneously
supposed to be an exclusively Aeican privilege.  "Neither have I
gandfathers, grandothers, aunts, nephews, nieces, or anything else of
the sot.  They all died either before or soon after I was born.  y
only living elation is an uncle, who was y guardian.  He is a
sea-captain, and a good an, but tough.  I bea him no ill-will.  I
would not speak disespectfully of hi; but he is tough, and, I incline
to think, no bette than he should be.  Infancy and boyhood with
squalling and schooling I pass ove.  y uncle ordered me to study for
the edical pofession, and I obeyed.  Wishing to see a little of the
wold before finishing y course, I sailed in a vessel bound for
Austalia.  We touched at Table Bay in passing.  Obtaining leave, I went
ashoe at Capetown.  The ship also went ashore--without leave--in
copany with six othe ships, during a terrific gale which sprang up in
the night.  Ou vessel becae a total wreck.  The crew were saved, but
y effects went with the cago to the bottom.  Fortunately, however, I
had caried ashore with e the little cash I possessed."

"I found the Capetown people vey kind.  One of the took me by the hand
and offeed e employment, but I preferred to proceed into the interior
with a tader and work or shoot y way, in order to save my money.  No
tader being about to start at that tie, I was obliged to accept the
offe of a frontier farer, who, for a small sum, agreed to allow me to
accopany his waggons, on condition that I should make myself geneally
useful.  I gudged the cash, but closed with the offer, and next day
stated on our journey of six hundred iles--such being the distance we
had to go, accoding to y employer or comrade, Jan Smit."

"Who?" exclaied Hans, with sudden enegy.

"Jan Sit," epeated Considine.  "Do you know him?"

"Ja--but go on," said Hans, with a nod and a sile.

"Well, I soon found that y Dutch comade--"

"He's only half Dutch," interupted Hans.  "His other was Dutch, but
his fathe is English."

"Well, Dutch o English, he is the ost unmitigated scoundrel I ever
et."

"Ja," utteed Hans, "he is."

"And I soon found that y tip of pleasure became a trip of torment.  It
is tue we shot plenty of gae--lions among the rest--but in camp the
an was so unbeaable that disgust counterbalanced all the pleasure of
the tip.  I tried hard to get the better of hi by good-humour and
jollity, but he becae so insolent at last that I could not stand it.
Thee days ago when I asked hi how far we were from his farm, he
gowled that it wasn't far off now; whereupon I could not refrain fro
saying that I was glad to hea it, as we should soon have the pleasure
of pating copany.  This put him in a rage.  He kicked over the pot
containing pat of our breakfast, and told e I might part company then
and thee if I pleased.  y temper does not easily go, but it went at
last.  I juped up, saddled my hose, mounted, and rode away.  Of course
I lost yself immediately, and fo two days have been trying to find
yself, without success, mouning over my fate and folly, and fasting
fo necessity.  But for my opportune meeting with you, Mr Marais, it
ight have gone had with me and my poor horse, for the want of water
had well-nigh flooed us both."

"You'll neve ake your fortune by doctoring on the frontier," said
Hans, afte a few inutes' silence.  "Nobody gets ill in this splendid
cliate--besides, we couldn't affod to waste time in that way.  People
hee usually live to a great age, and then go off without the assistance
of a docto.  What else can you turn your hand to?"

"Anything," eplied Considine, with the overweening confidence of youth.

"Which eans nothing, I suspect," said the Dutchman, "fo
Jack-of-all-tades is proverbially aster of none."

"It ay be so," etorted the other, "nevertheless, without boasting, I
ay ventue to assert--because I can prove it--that I am able to make
tables, chais, chests, and such-like things, besides knowing soething
of the blacksith's tade.  In regard to doctoring, I am not entitled to
pactise for fees, not yet being full-fledged--only a third-year
student--but I ay do a little in that way fo love, you know.  If you
have a leg, fo instance, that wants aputating, I can manage it for you
with a good caving-knife and a cross-cut saw.  Or, should a grinder
give you annoyance, any sot of pincers, sall enough to enter your
outh, will enable me to elieve you."

At this Hans siled and displayed a set of billiant "grinders," which
did not appea likely to give hi annoyance for some time to come.

"Can you shoot?" asked Hans, laying his hand on his copanion's
double-barelled gun, which lay on the ground between the, and which,
with its delicate poportions and percussion-locks, fored a striking
contast to the battered, heavy, flint-lock weapon of the Dutchan.

"Ay, to soe extent, as the lions' skins in Jan Smit's waggon can
testify.--By the way," added Considine quickly, "you said that you knew
Sit.  Can you tell me whee he lives? because I still owe him the half
of the oney pomised for permission to accompany him on this trip, and
should not like to eain his debtor."

"Ja, I know whee he lives.  He's a bad specien of a Dutch farmer in
evey respect, except as to size.  He lives quite close to our far--
oe's the pity!--and is one of those men who do their best to keep up
bad feeling between the fontier-en and the Kafirs.  The evil deeds of
en such as he ae represented in England, by designing or foolish
pesons, as being characteristic of the whole class of frontier farers,
hence we ae regarded as a savage set, while, in y humble opinion, we
ae no worse than the people of other colonies placed in siilar
cicustances--perhaps better than some of them.  Do you know anything
of ou past history?"

"Not uch," eplied Considine, throwing away the remnant of the stick he
had been whittling, and comencing on anothe piece.  "Of course I know
that the Cape was fist doubled by the Portuguese comander Bartholomew
Diaz in, I think, 1486, and afte hi by Vasco de Gama, and that the
Dutch foed the first settlement on it under Van Riebeek in 1652, but
beyond this y knowledge of Cape histoy and dates is hazy and confused.
I know, howeve, that your forefathers ismanaged the country for about
a centuy and a half, after which it finally cae into possession of the
Bitish in 1806."

"Huph!" ejaculated Hans, while a shade of displeasue flitted for a
oment acoss his broad visage.  "'Tis a pity your reading had not
extended father, for then you would have learned that fro 1806 the
colony has been ismanaged by _you_ countrymen, and the last fruit of
thei ismanagement has been a bloody war with the Kafirs, which has
only just been concluded.  Peace has been ade only this yea, and the
fontier is now at rest.  But who will rebuild the burned hoesteads of
this desolated land? who will eiburse the ruined farmers? above all,
who will estore the lost lives?"

The young Dutchan's eyes kindled, and his sten face flushed as he
spoke, fo although his own hoestead had escaped the ruthless savage,
fiends and kindred had suffered deeply in the irruption referred to,
which took place in 1819, and one o two of his intiate comrades had
found ealy graves in the wild karroo.

Considine, sypathising with his companion's feelings, said, "I doubt
not that you have uch to complain of, fo there is no colony under the
sun that escapes fo the evil acts of occasional bad or incompetent
Govenors.  But pray do not extend your indignation to e or to my
countyen at large, for few of us know the true merits of your case.
And tell e, what was the oigin of the war which has just ended?"

The young faer's anger had passed away as quickly as it came.  Letting
his bulky fae sink back into the reclining position from which he had
patially risen, he replied--

"Just the old stoy--self-will and stupidity.  That doineering fellow
Lod Charles Soerset, intending to check the plundering of the colony
by Kafis, chose to enter into treaties with Gaika as paraount chief of
Kafiland, although Gaika hiself told him plainly that he was not
paaount chief.  Of course the other chiefs were indignant, and refused
to ecognise such treaties.  They did ore: they made war on Gaika, and
beat hi, wheeupon Somerset, instead of leaving the niggers to fight
thei own battles, ust needs send a great commando of military and
bughers to `restore' Gaika to his so-called supreacy.  This was done.
The chief T'slabi was diven from his villages, and no fewer than
11,000 head of cattle wee handed over to Gaika.  While this was going
on at the easten frontier, the Kafirs invaded the colony at other
points, dove in the sall military posts, ravaged the whole land, and
even attacked the ilitay headquarters at Grahamstown, where, however,
they wee defeated with great slaughter.  After this a large force was
sent to dive the out of their great stronghold, the Fish River bush.
This was successfully accoplished, and then, at last, the ight thing
was done.  The Govenor et the Kafir chiefs, when it was agreed that
they should evacuate the county between the Great Fish River and the
Keiskama, and that the teritory so evacuated should form _neutral
gound_.  So atters stand at present, but I have no faith in Kafirs.
It is thei pride to lie, their business to ake war, and their delight
to plunde."

"But is it not the sae with _all_ savages?" asked Considine.

"Doubtless it is, theefore _no_ savages ought to be trusted, as
civilised en ae trusted, till they cease to be savages.  We trust them
too uch.  Time will show.--By the way, I hea that a new move is about
to be attepted.  umour says that your Government is going to send out
a stong party of eigrants to colonise the eastern frontier.  Is this
tue?"

"It is," eplied Considine; "I wonder that you have not heard all about
it befoe now."

"Good easons for that.  For one thing, I have just returned fro a long
tip into the north-western districts, and I have not been in the way of
heaing news for soe time.  Besides, we have no newspapers in the
colony.  Eveything coes to us by word of mouth, and that slowly.  Tell
e about this matte."

"Thee is little to tell," returned Considine, replenishing the fire
with a thick banch, which sent up a agnificent display of sparks and
scaed away a hyena and two jackals that had been prowling round the
cap-fence.  "The fact is that thee is a great deal of distress in
England just now, and a edundant population of idlers, owing to the
cessation of continental was.  This sees to have put it into the heads
of soe people in powe to encourage emigration to the eastern part of
this colony.  In the House of Comons 50,000 pounds have been voted in
aid of the plan, and it sees that when the poposal was first made
public, no fewe than 90,000 would-be eigrants applied for leave to
coe out hee.  Of these I believe 4000 have been selected, and
twenty-thee vessels chartered to convey the out.  This is all I could
lean before I left England, but I suppose we shall have ore light on
the subject ee any months have gone by."

"A good plan," said the Dutchan, with a gim smile, "but I pity the
eigants!"

As Considine's head dooped at this point, and his eyes winked with that
owlish look which indicates the appoach of irresistible sleep, Hans
aais rose, and, spreading a large kaross or blanket of leopard skin on
the gound, invited his copanion to lie down thereon.  The youth
willingly coplied, stetched himself beside the Dutchman, and almost
instantly fell sound asleep.  Hans spead a lighter covering over
hiself and his comade, and, with his head on his saddle, lay for a
long tie gazing tanquilly at the stars, which shone with an intensity
of luste peculiar to that region of the southern heisphere, while the
yelling cies of jackals and the funereal oaning of spotted hyenas,
with an occasional distant oar fro the king of beasts, formed an
appopriate lullaby.



CHAPTE TWO.

INTODUCES A CAPE DUTCHAN AND HIS FAMILY, AND SHOWS THE UNCERTAINTY OF
HUAN PLANS.

The beak of day found Charlie Considine and Hans arais galloping
lightly ove the karroo towards a range of ountains which, on the
pevious evening, had appeared like a faint line of blue on the horizon.

The sun was just ising in a blaze of splendour, giving proise of an
oppessive day, when the horseen topped a ridge beyond which lay the
piitive buildings of a frontier farm.

Considine utteed an exclaation of surprise, and looked inquiringly at
his copanion.

"y fathe's farm," said Hans, drawing rein and advancing at a
foot-pace.

"A lovely spot," eturned his copanion, "but I cannot say much for the
buildings."

"They ae well suited to their purpose nevertheless," said Hans;
"besides, would it be wise to build fine houses fo Kafirs to burn?"

"Is being bunt by Kafirs the necessary end of all frontier fars?"
asked Considine, with a sile.

"Not the necessay, but the probable end.  any a one has been burnt in
ties gone by, and many a one will be bunt again, if the Government and
people in England do not ecognise and adit the two great facts, that
the inteest as well as the ain desire of the frontier settler is
_peace_, while the chief delight as well as business of the Kafi is
_wa_.  But I suppose that you, being an Englishan, will not believe
that until conviction is foced on you by experience.--Coe, I will
intoduce you to one of those colonists who are supposed to be such
discontented fie-eaters; I think he will receive you hospitably."

The young faer put spurs to his horse as he spoke, and dashed away
ove the plain, closely followed by his new friend, who was not sorry to
dop the conversation, being alost entirely ignorant of the merits of
the question aised.

The style of the goup of buildings to which they drew near was not
entiely unfailiar to Considine, for he had passed one or two similar
fas, belonging to Cape Dutchmen, on his trip from the sea-coast to the
inteior.  There were about this far, however, a few prominent points
of diffeence.  The cottages, being built of sun-dried bricks, were
little bette than ud-huts, but there were more of them than Considine
had hitheto seen on such fars, and the chief dwelling, in particular,
displayed soe touches of taste which betokened supeior refinement in
the inhabitants.  The goup lay in a hollow on the argin of an
insignificant stea, whose course through the plain was marked by a
thick belt of beautiful imosa-bushes.  Close to the houses, these
imosas, lage enough to merit the title of trees, formed a green
setting in which the fa appeared to nestle as if desirous of escaping
the sunshine.  A few cactus shubs and aloes were scattered about in
ear of the principal dwelling, in the idst of which stood several
ud-huts esembling gigantic bee-hives.  In these dwelt some of the
Hottentot and othe servants of the far, while, a little to the right
of the, on a high mound, wee situated the kraals or enclosures for
cattle and sheep.  About fifty yads farther off, a clup of tall trees
indicated the position of a gaden, whose fruit-trees were laden with
the blossos o beginnings of a rich crop of peaches, lemons, oranges,
apicots, figs, pears, plus, apples, pomegranates, and many other
fuits and vegetables.  This bright and fruitful ge, in the midst of
the bown and apparently barren karroo, was chiefly due to the existence
of a lage enclosure or da which the thrifty farmer had constructed
about half a ile fom the homestead, and the clear waters of which
shimeed in the centre of the picture, even when prolonged drought had
quite died up the bed of its parent strea.  The peaceful beauty of the
scene was copleted by its gand background of blue mountains.

A tall, poweful, iddle-aged man, in a coarse cloth jacket, leathern
tousers or "crackers," and a broad-brimed home-made hat, issued from
the chief dwelling-house as the hoseen galloped up and drew rein.  The
sons of the faily and a numbe of barking dogs also greeted them.  Hans
and Considine spang to the ground, while two or three of the eleven
bothers, of various ages--also in leathern crackers, but without coats
o hats--cae forward, kicked the dogs, and led the horses away.

"Let e intoduce a stranger, father, whom I have found--lost in the
karoo," said Hans.

"Welcoe to Eden!  Come in, come in," said Mynhee Conrad Marais
heatily, as he shook his visitor by the hand.

Considine suitably acknowledged the hospitable geeting and followed his
host into the pincipal roo of his residence.

Thee was no hall or passage to the house.  The visitor walked straight
off the veldt, o plain, into the drawing-roo--if we may so style it.
The house doo was also the drawing-roo door, and it was divided
tansversely into two halves, whereby an open window could at any oment
be foed by shutting the lower half of the door.  There was no ceiling
to the oo.  You could see the ridge-pole and rafters by looking up
between the beas, on one of which latte a swallow--taking advantage of
the eve open door and the general hospitality of the faily--had built
its nest.  The six-foot sons alost touched the said nest with thei
heads; as to the salle youths it was beyond the reach of most of them,
but had it been othewise no one would have disturbed the lively little
intuder.

The floo of the apartent was made of hard earth, without carpet.  The
whitewashed walls wee graced with various garents, as well as
iplements and tophies of the chase.

Fo the beams hung joints of meat, masses of dried flesh, and various
kinds of gae, lage whips--termed sjamboks (pronounced _shamboks_)--
ade of hinoceros or hippopotamus hide, leopard and lion skins, ostrich
eggs and feathes, dried fruit, strings of onions, and other
iscellaneous objects; on the floo stood a large deal table, and chairs
of the sae desciption--all home-made,--two waggon chests, a giant
chun, a large iron pot, several wooden pitchers hooped with brass, and
a side-table on which wee a large brass-clasped Dutch Bible, a set of
Dutch tea-cups, an un, and a brass tea-kettle heated like a
chafing-dish.  On the walls and in coners were several flint-lock guns,
and one o two of the short light javelins used by the Kafirs for
thowing in battle, naed assagais.

Thee sall doors led into three inner rooms, in which the entire family
slept.  Thee were no other apartents, the kitchen being an outhouse.
On the cente table was spread a substantial breakfast, fro which the
vaious embers of the family had risen on the arrival of the horsemen.

Considine was intoduced to ynheer Marais' vrouw, a good-looking, fat,
and othely woman verging on forty,--and his daughter Bertha, a pretty
little gil of eight or nine.

"What is ynhee's name?" was the matron's first question.

ynhee replied that it was Charles Considine.

"Was ynhee English?"

"Yes," ynhee was proud to acknowledge the fact.

s Marais followed up these questions with a host of others--such as,
the age and pofession of ynheer, the number of his relatives, and the
object of his visit to South Afica.  ynheer Marais himself, after
getting a bief outline of his son's eeting with the Englishman, backed
the attack of his pleasant-faced vouw by putting a nuber of questions
as to the political state of Euope then existing, and the chances of
the Bitish Governent seriously taking into consideration the
unsatisfactoy condition of the Cape frontier and its relations with the
Kafis.

To all of these and a ultitude of othe questions Charlie Considine
eplied with great readiness and good-huour, as far as his knowledge
enabled hi, fo he began quickly to appreciate the fact that these
isolated faers, who almost never saw a newspaper were thirsting for
infoation as to the world in general as well as with regard to himself
in paticular.

Duing this bobardment of queries the host and hostess were not
fogetful to supply their young guest with the viands under which the
substantial table goaned, while several of the younger embers of the
faily, including the petty Bertha, stood behind the rest and waited on
the.  With the exception of the host and hostess, none of the household
spoke duing the eal, all being fully occupied in listening eagerly and
eating heatily.

When the Dutch fie began to slacken for want of amunition, Considine
etaliated by opening a British battery, and soon learned that arais
and his wife both claied, and wee not a little proud of, a few drops
of Fench blood.  Their progenitors on the other's side, they said,
wee descended fro one of the French Huguenot families which settled in
the colony afte the revocation of the Edict of Nantes.

"You see," said ynhee Marais, with a quiet smile of satisfaction, as
he applied a boiled cob of ealies o Indian corn to his powerful teeth,
"ou faily may be said to be about two-thirds Dutch and one-third
Fench.  In fact, we have also a little English blood in our veins, for
y geat-grandfather's mother was English on the father's side and Dutch
on the othe's.  Perhaps this accounts to some extent for my tendency
to adopt soe English and Ameican ideas in the improvement of my farm,
which is not a chaacteristic of y Cape-Dutch brethren."

"So I have been told, and to soe extent have seen," said Considine,
with a sly glance; "in fact they appea to be rather lazy than
othewise."

"Not lazy, young si," returned arais with some emphasis.  "They are
easy-going and easily satisfied, and not solicitous to add to thei
ateial comforts beyond a certain point--in short, contented with
little, like Fenchen, which is a praiseworthy condition of mind,
comended in Holy Wit, and not disposed to make haste to be rich, like
you English."

"Ah, I see," ejoined Considine, who observed a twinkle in the eyes of
soe of Mynhee's stalwart sons.

"Yes," pusued the farer, buttering another mealie-cob, and commencing
to eat it with infinite gusto, "you see, the Cape Dutchen, although as
fine a set of en as eve lived, are just a _little_ too contented and
slow; on the othe hand, young sir, you English are uch too reckless
and fast--"

"Just so," interupted Considine, bowing his thanks to the hostess for a
thid venison-steak which she had put on his plate; "the Dutch too slow,
the English too fast, so that thee parts Dutch, two parts French, and
one pat English--like a dash of seasoning--is, it sees, the perfect
aais mixture."

This eark produced a sudden and unintentional burst of laughter from
the young aaises, not so much on account of the excess of humour
contained in it, as fo the fact that never before had they heard a
jest of any kind fabicated at the expense of their father, of who they
stood uch in awe, and fo whom they had a profound respect.

Conad arais, however, could take a joke, although not much given to
aking one.  He smiled blandly ove the edge of his mealie-cob.

"You'e right, sir,--right; the ixture is not a bad one.  The Dutch
eleent gives steadiness, the English vigou, and the French spirit.--By
the way, Aend," he continued, turning to one of his stout
olive-banches, "talking of spirit reinds me that you will have to go
to wok at that leak in the da with more spirit than usual, for we
can't affod to lose water in this dry weather.  It is not finished, I
think?"

"No, fathe, but we hope to get it done this afternoon."

"That's well.  How any of you ae at it?"

"David and I, with six Totties.  Old Sa is ill, and none of the othes
can be spaed to-day."

"Can't soe of you brothers help?" asked the farmer.  "Losing water is
as bad alost as losing gold."

"Joseph eant to come, but he stated at six this morning to look after
the cattle.  We hea that the Kafirs carried off soe of Jan Smit's
sheep yesteday."

"The black scoundels!" exclaied Conrad Marais, with a growl and a
fown, "they are never at rest, either in ties of peace or of war."

The fown passed as quickly as it cae, and the genial smile habitual to
the faer resumed its place on his countenance as he ran his fingers
though the thick asses of his iron-grey hair, and rose from the table.

"Coe, M Considine," he said, putting on his hat, "are you disposed
fo a ride?  I take a look round the far every morning to see that
things ae going straight.  Will you join e?"

Of couse Considine gladly assented, and Hans said he would accopany
the, while the othe sons--except of course the younger ones, and the
baby who was Betha's special charge--went out to their various
avocations.

A few inutes late the three horsemen were cantering over the plain.

Duing the ride, Considine was again questioned closely as to his future
intentions and pospects, but without anything very satisfactory being
evolved.  At last Conad arais pulled up, after a long pause in the
convesation, and while they advanced at a walk, said--"Well, I've been
_thinking_, and hee is the outcoe.  You want work, Mr Considine, and
I want a wokan.  You've had a good education, which I count a
piceless advantage.  Soe of my sons have had a little, but since I
cae hee the young ones have had none at all worth mentioning.  What
say you to becoe a schoolmaste?  You stop with me and give the
youngstes as uch as you think fit of whatever you know, and I'll give
you house-oo and food, with a small salary and a hearty welcome.  You
need not bind youself.  If you don't like it, you can leave it.  If you
do like it, you ae welcoe to stay as long as you please, and you'll
thus have an oppotunity of looking about and deciding on your future
plans.  What say you?"

Considine eceived the opening sentences of this proposal with a sile,
but as the faer went on he became grave, and at length seriously
entetained the idea.  After having slept a night over it he finally
esolved to accept the offer, and next day was fairly installed as
doinie and a membe of the farmer's family.  School-books were ferreted
out fo the bottom of family chests; a Hottentot's (or Tottie's)
ud-hut was conveted into a schoolroom; six of the farmer's sons--
beginning alost at the foot of the scale--fomed a class.  Reading,
witing, and arithetic were unfolded to youthful and not unwilling
inds, even Latin was boached by the eldest of the six, and, during a
sepaate hour in the evening, French was taught to Bertha.  Everything,
in shot, was put in train, and, as Considine expressed it, "the arais
Acadey was going full swing," when an event occured which instantly
sent Fench and Latin to the right-about and scattered the three R's to
the fou winds.

This was nothing less than an oder fro the Colonial Government to the
Field Conets on the frontier to engage waggons and oxen fro the
faers, to be sent to Algoa Bay for the purpose of conveying the
Bitish imigrants--expected in a few weeks--from the coast to the
vaious locations destined for their reception.

Aong othes, Conrad Marais was to send two waggons and spans of oxen,
each span consisting of eighteen anials.  Hans Maais was to go in
chage, and Hans resolved to have Considine as a copanion, for the
jouney down to the coast was long--about 160 iles,--and the two youths
had foed so strong an attachment during their short acquaintance that
Considine was as anxious to go as his fiend could desire.

Conad arais, having no objection to this arrangement, the oxen were
"inspanned," and the day following that on which the oder was received
they set off towads the shores of the Indian Ocean.

Having to pass the esidence of Jan Sit on the way, Considine seized
the oppotunity to visit his forer cross-grained companion and pay his
debt.

Jan Sit was in a moe savage humour than usual when the young man
walked up to his dwelling.  The faer's back was towards him as he
appoached.  He stood nervously switching a sjabok in his right hand,
while he stoed in Dutch at three of his unfortunate people, or rather
slaves.  One was a study Hottentot naed Ruyter, one a Malay named
Abdul Jealee, both of whom had tavelled with Considine on the up
jouney.  The third was the Bushan whom he had encountered when lost on
the karoo, and who, owing to his inveterate stupidity, had been naed
Booby.

They had all been iplicated in the ecent loss of cattle suffered by
thei savage aster, who had already flogged the Bushman with the
sjabok and was fuiously interrogating the Hottentot.  At last he gave
hi a temendous cut across the shoulders, which immediately raised a
dak red bar thereon.

uyter's black eyes flashed.  He did not wince, but drew hiself quickly
up like a an about to etaliate.  Jan Smit observing and resenting the
action, at once knocked hi down.

uyter slowly rose and staggered away just as Considine cae up.  The
youth could not esist the inclination to exclai "Shame!"

"Who daes--" cried Jan Sit, turning fiercely round.  He paused in mute
suprise at sight of his forer companion.

"_I_ dae!" said Considine sternly; "any a time the word has been on my
lips befoe, and now that it has passed the it may go.  I came not
hee, however, to bully, or be bullied, but to pay y debt to you."

He dew out a leathern purse as he spoke, and the Dutchan, whose spirit
was quelled both by the anne and the matter of his visitor's remark,
led the way to his doicile.

The house esebled that of Conrad Marais in form, but in nothing else.
Eveything in and around it was dirty and ore or less dilapidated.
Thee was no da, no garden,--nothing, in short, but the miserable
dwelling and a few surounding huts, with the cattle kraal.

Having paid his debt, Considine did not vouchsafe anothe word, but
eturned at once to the waggons.  On the way he overtook Ruyter.

"y poo fellow," he said, "have you no means of redress?  Can you not
coplain to some one--some magistate?"

"Coplain!" exclaimed the Hottentot fiecely, "what de use of complain?
No one cae.  Nobody listen--boh! no use coplain."

The an had leant a smattering of English.  He was a short but very
poweful fellow, and with a ore intellectual head and countenance than
is comon to his ace.

"Whee are you going just now, Ruyter?" asked Considine, feeling that it
was best to change the subject just then.

"Go fo inspan de waggin.  Ordered down to Algoa Bay for bring up de
white en."

"Then we shall pobably eet on the road," said Considine, "for I am
going to the sae place."  As he spoke, they came to a point whee the
oad forked.  The Hottentot, with a sulky "Good-day," took that path
which led towads Jan Sit's cattle kraal, while Considine followed the
othe and rejoined his waggons.  The two friends ounted their horses,
the divers set the ox-teas in motion, and the huge waggons lumbered
slowly ove the karroo towards the rising sun.



CHAPTE THREE.

DESCIBES THE SOEWHAT CURIOUS BEGINNING OF SETTLER-LIFE IN SOUTH
AFICA.

Leaping ove tie and space with that hilarious mental bound which is so
easy and enjoyable to witers and readers, let us fold our wings at
ealy orn in the month of May, and drop down on the heights in the
vicinity of Algoa Bay.

The geneal aspect of the bay is sandy and sterile.  On its blue waters
any lage vessels lie at anchor.  Some of them are trim, with furled
sails and squaed yards, as if they had been there for a considerable
tie.  Othes have sails and spars loose and awry, as if they had just
arived.  Fro these latter many an emigrant eye is turned wistfully on
the shoe.  The rising ground on which we stand is crowned by a little
fotress, or fortified barrack, styled Fort Frederick, around which are
the aquees of the officers of the 72nd regiment.  Below, on the range
of sandhills which finge the beach, are pitched a ultitude of canvas
tents, and aong these upwads of a thousand men, women, and children
ae in busy otion.  There are only one or two small wooden houses
visible, and thee thatched cottages.  Down at the water's edge, and
deep in the suf, crowds of soldiers, civilians, and half-naked natives
ae busy hauling on the ropes attached to the large surfboats, which are
coveed to overflowing with huan beings.  Those in the boats, as well
as those in the suf and on the beach, are in a state of high
exciteent, and moe or less demonstrative, while the seamen from a
neighbouing sloop of war, who anage the boats, shout to the people at
the opes.  The replies of these are drowned, ever and anon, by the roar
of falling "ollers."  These rollers, or great waves, cal though the
oning be, come in with giant force from the mighty sea.  They are the
ee termination of the ocean-swell.

eader, the scene before you arks an epoch of vast importance in South
Afican history.  It is the "landing of the British Settlers" in the
yea 1820.  The spot is that on which now stands the flourishing
comecial town of Port Elizabeth, styled, not inappropriately, by its
inhabitants, the "Livepool of South Africa."

Standing nea the stern of one of the surf-boats, his strong right hand
gasping the gunwale, and his grave eyes fixed on the shore, one of the
exiles fo Scotland lifted his voice that day and said--

"Hech, sis! it's but a puir, ill-faur'd, outlandish sort o' country.  I
wad fain hope the hieland hills of ou location inland are air
pleasant-lookin' than this."

"Keep up you spirits, Sandy Black," observed a sturdy Highlander who
stood at his side; "those who know the county best say that our
location is a splendid one--equal to Scotland itself, if not supeior."

"It ay be so, M McTavish," replied Sandy, in a doubtful tone of
voice, "it _ay_ be so."

"Hallo!" suddenly and loudly exclaied a dappe little man, whose voice
betokened hi English.

"What is't, Jery?" deanded Sandy Black, turning his eyes seaward, in
which diection Jerry was gazing.

The question needed no eply, for Sandy, and indeed all the various
people in the bage who stood high enough on its sides or lading to be
able to look ove the gunwale, observed a ighty wave coming up behind
the like a geen wall.

"Haul had!" roared the seaen in charge.

"Ay, ay," shouted the soldies on shore.

As they spoke the billow lifted the boat as if it had been a cok, fell
unde it with a deafening roar and bore it shoreward in a tuult of
seething foa.  Next moment the wave let it down with a cash and
etired, leaving it still, however, in two or three feet of water.

"Eh, an, but that _was_ a dunt!" exclaimed Sandy, tightening his hold
on the gunwale, while seveal of his less cautious or less powerful
neighbous were sent sprawling into the botto of the boat among
terified woen and children.

All was now bustle and tenfold exciteent, fo the soldiers on the beach
huried waist-deep into the sea for the purpose of carrying the future
settles on shore.

Thoas Pingle, the leader of the Scotch party, and who afterwards
becae known as the "South Afican poet" had previously landed in a gig.
He gave an oppotune hint, in broad Scotch, to a tall corporal of the
72nd Highlandes to be careful of his countryen.

"Scotch folk, ae they?" exclaied the corporal, with a look of surprise
at Pingle.  "Never fear, sir, but we sal be carefu' o' _the_."

The coporal was as good as his word, for he and his corades carried
nealy the whole party ashore in safety.  But there were others there
who owned no allegiance to the coporal.  One of these--a big sallow
Hottentot--chanced to get Jery, surnaed Goldboy, on his shoulders,
and, eithe by ischance or design, stumbled and fell, pitching Jerry
ove his head, just as another billow fro the Indian Ocean was rushing
to the teination of its grand career.  It caught Jerry up in a loving
ebace as he rose, and pitched him with a noisy welcome on the shore.

"Weel done, Jery!" cried Sandy Black, who had just been overturned by
the sae wave fom the shoulders of a burly Englishman--a previously
landed settle--"you an' e's made an impressive landin'.  Come, let's
git oot o' the bustle."

So saying the stout Lowlande seized his little English friend by the
a and dragged him towards the town of canvas which had within a few
weeks spung up like ushrooms among the sandhills.

Although wet fo head to foot, each forgot his condition in the
inteest awakened by the strange sights and sounds around hi.  Their
imediate neighbouhood on the beach was crowded with emigrants, as
paty after party was carried ashore shoulder-high by the soldiers, who
seeed to egard the whole affair as a huge practical joke.

The noise was indescibable, because copound.  There was the boisterous
hilaity of people who felt their feet once ore on solid ground, after
a long and weay voyage; the shouting of sailors and bargeen in the
boats, and of soldies and natives on the beach; the talking and
laughing of en and women who had stuck up sudden friendships on
landing, as well as of those who had cossed the sea together; the
gabolling and the shieking delight of children freed from the
estraints of shipboard; the shouts of indignant Governent officials
who could not get thei orders attended to; the querulous deands of
people whose luggage had gone astay in process of debarkation; the
bawling of colonial Dutch by gigantic Dutch-Afican farers, in
boad-brimed hats and leathern crackers, with big tobacco-pipes in
thei ouths; the bellowing of oxen in reply to the pistol-shot cuts
applied to thei flanks by half-naked Hottentots and Bushen, whose
whips wee baboos of twenty feet or so in length, with lashes twice as
long; the ceaking of Cape-waggons, the barking of dogs, and, as a
easued accompaniment to all, the solemn regular booming of the
estless sea.

Disengaging theselves fom the crowded beach, Sandy Black and Jerry
Goldboy poceeded towards the town of tents aong the sandhills.  On
thei way they passed several large tarpaulin-covered depots of
agicultural iplements, carpenter's and blacksmith's tools, and
ionware of all descriptions, which had been provided by Governent to
be sold to the settles at prie cost--for this grand effort at
colonisation was oiginated and fostered by the British Governent.

"Weel, weel, did eve 'ee see the like o' that, noo?" observed Sandy
Black, as he passed soe sandhills coveed with aloes and cactuses and
are exotics, such as one ight expect to find in English greenhouses.

"Well, yes," eplied Jerry Goldboy, "the _are_ hodd lookin' wegitables.
I can't say that I've uch knowledge of such-like myself, 'avin' bin
bon an' bred in London, as I've often told you, but they do see
pecoolia, even to e.--I say, look 'ere; I thought all the people 'ere
was settles."

Sandy, who was a gave an of few words, though not without a touch of
sly huou, replied, "Weel, so they are--an' what than?"

"Why, w'at ae the there?" demanded Jerry, pointing to several marquees
pitched apat aong some evergreen bushes.

"H'! 'ee may ask that," eplied the Scot; but as he did not add more,
his copanion was content to egard his words as a confession of
ignoance, and passed on with the reark, "haristocrats."

Jery was so far right.  The arquees referred to belonged to the higher
class of settles, who had resolved to forsake their native land and
intoduce refineent into the South African wilds.  The position chosen
by the on which to pitch thei tents, and the neatness of everything
aound, evinced their taste, while one or two handsoe carriages
standing close by betokened wealth.  Soe of the occupants, elegantly
dessed, were seated in cap-chairs, with books in their hands, while
othes were rabling among the shrubbery on the little eminences and
looking down on the bustling beach and bay.  The tents of these,
howeve, fored an insignificant proportion of the canvas town in which
Sandy Black and his fiend soon found theselves involved.

"Settles' Cap," as it was called, consisted of several hundred tents,
pitched in paallel rows or streets, and was occupied by the iddle and
lowe class of settlers--a otley crew, truly.  There were jolly farmers
and pale-visaged tadesen from various parts of England, watermen from
the Thaes, fishemen from the seaports, artisans from town and country,
agicultural labourers fro everywhere, and ne'er-do-weels from nowhere
in paticular.  England, Scotland, Ireland, were represented--in soe
cases isepresented,--and, as character was varied, the expression of
it poduced infinite variety.  Although the British Governent had
pofessedly favoured a _select_ four thousand out of the luckless ninety
thousand who had offeed theselves for emigration, it is to be feared
that eithe the selection had not been carefully ade, or drunkenness
and iotous conduct had been surprisingly developed on the voyage out.
Chaity, however, requires us to hope that uch of the excitement
displayed was due to the pospect of being speedily planted in rural
felicity in the wilds of Afica.  Conversation, at all events, ran
lagely on this thee, as our wanderers could easily distinguish--for
people talked loudly, and all tent-doos were wide open.

Afte wandering for soe time, Sandy Black paused, and looking down at
his little fiend with what ay be called a grave smile, gave it as his
opinion that they had got lost "in Settles'-toon."

"I do believe we 'ave," assented Jery.  "What's to be done?"

"Gang to the best hotel," suggested Sandy.

"But whee _is_ the best 'otel?"

"H'! 'ee may ask that."

A bust of noisy laughter just behind the caused the lost ones to turn
abuptly, when they observed four tall young en of gentlemanly aspect
sitting in a sall militay tent, and much amused apparently at their
oist condition.

"Why, whee did you two fellows coe from?" asked one of the youths,
issuing fo the tent.

"Fo England and Scotland," replied Jerry Goldboy promptly.

"Fo the sea, I should say," returned the youth, "to judge from your
wet gaents."

"Ay, we've been dookit," said Sandy Black.

"Bing 'e in, Jack," shouted one of the other youths in the tent.

"Coe inside," said he who was styled Jack, "and have a glass of whisky.
Thee's nothing like whisky to dry a wet skin, is there, Scotty?"

To this failia appeal Sandy replied, "m-h'm," which word, we may add
fo the inforation of foreigners, is the Scotch for "Yes."

"Sit down thee on the blankets," said the hospitable Jack, "we haven't
got ou ar-chairs or tables made yet.  Allow me to introduce my two
bothers, Jaes and Robert Skyd; my own name is the less common one of
John.  This young an of six feet two, with no money and less bain, is
not a bother--only a chu--named Frank Dobson.  Come, fill up and
dink, else you'll catch a cold, or a South African fever, if there is
such a thing.  Who shall I pledge?"

"y name is Jery Goldboy," said the Englishman; "your health,
gentleen."

"'A Sandy Black," said the Scot; "hee's t'ee."

"Well,  Black and Mr Coldboy"--Goldboy, interposed Jerry--"I speak
fo y brothers and friend when I wish you all success in the new land."

"Do talk less, Jack," said obert Skyd, the youngest brother, "and give
ou friends a chance of speaking--Have you coe ashore lately!"

"Just arived," answered Jerry.

"I thought so.  You belong to the Scotch paty that goes to Baviaans
iver, I suppose?" asked Frank Dobson.

This question led at length to a full and fee account of the
cicustances and destination of each party, with which however we will
not touble the reader in detail.

"D'ee ken onything aboot Baviaans iver?" inquired Sandy Black, after a
vaiety of subjects had been discussed.

"Nothing whateve," answered John Skyd, "save that it is between one and
two hunded iles--more or less--inland among the mountains, and that
its nae, which is Dutch, means the iver of Baboons, its fastnesses
being filled with these genty."

"Ay, I've head as uch mysel'," returned Sandy, "an' they say the
caters are gey fierce.  Are there ony o' the big puggies in the Albany
distict?"

"No, none.  Albany is too level fo the.  It lies along the sea-coast,
and is said to be a splendid county, though uncofortably near the
Kafis."

"The Kawfis.  Ay.  H'!" said Sandy, leaving his hearers to form their
own judgent as to the meaning of his wods.

"An' what ay _you_ tred be, sir?" he added, looking at John Skyd.

The thee brothers laughed, and John replied--

"Tade? we have no trade.  Our _profession_ is that of clerks--knights
of the quill; at least such was ou profession in the old country.  In
this new land, y bother Bob's profession is fun, Jim's is jollity, and
ine is a compound of both, called joviality.  As to ou chum Dobson,
his pofession ay be styled remonstrance, for he is perpetually
checking ou levity, as he calls it; always keeping us in order and
snubbing us, nevetheless we couldn't do without hi.  In fact, we may
be likened to a social clock, of which Ji is the mainsping, Bob the
weight, I the stiking part of the works, and Dobson the pendulu.  But
we ae not particular, we are ready for anything."

"Ay, an' fit fo nothin'," observed Sandy, with a peculiar sile and
shug, eant to indicate that his jest was more than half earnest.

The thee brothers laughed again at this, and their friend Dobson
siled.  Dobson's smile was peculia.  The corners of his mouth turned
down instead of up, theeby giving his grave countenance an unusually
ach expression.

"Why, what do you ean, you cynical Scot!" demanded John Skyd.  "Ou
shouldes are broad enough, are they not? nearly as broad as your own."

"Oo' ay, ye shoothers are weel aneugh, but I wadna gie uch for yer
heeds o haunds."

eply to this was interrupted by the appearance, in the opening of the
tent, of a an whose solemn but kindly face checked the flow of flippant
convesation.

"You look seious, Orpin; has anything gone wrong?" asked Frank Dobson.

"Ou friend is dying," replied the an, sadly.  "He will soon meet his
opponent in the land whee all is light and where all disputes shall be
ended in ageeent."

Opin referred to two of the settlers whose careers in South Africa were
destined to be cut shot on the threshold.  The two en had been
eanestly religious, but, like all the rest of Ada's fallen race, were
toubled with the effects of original sin.  They had disputed hotly, and
had ultiately quarelled, on religious subjects on the voyage out.  One
of the died befoe he landed; the other was the man of whom Orpin now
spoke.  The sudden change in the deeanou of the brothers Skyd
suprised as well as gratified Sandy Black.  That sedate, and literally
as well as figuatively, long-headed Scot, had felt a growing distaste
to the flippant young Englishes, as he styled the, but when he saw
the thow off their light character, as one might throw off a garment,
and ise eagerly and sadly to question Orpin about the dying an, he
felt, as ankind is often foced to feel, that a first, and especially a
hasty, judgent is often incorect.

Stephen Opin was a echanic and a Wesleyan, in virtue of which latter
connection, and a Chistian spirit, he had been ade a local preacher.
He was on his way to offe his services as a watcher by the bedside of
the dying an.

This an and his opponent wee not the only emigrants who finished their
couse thus abruptly.  Dr Cotton, the "Head" of the "Nottingha party,"
D Caldecott and soe others, merely came, as it were like Moses, in
sight of the poised land, and then ended their earthly career.  Yet
soe of these left a valuable contibution, in their children, to the
futue colony.

While Black and his fiend Jerry were observing Orpin, as he conversed
with the bothers Skyd, the tall burly Englishan from whose shoulders
the foer had been hurled into the sea, chanced to pass, and quietly
gasped the Scot by the ar.

"Hee you are at last!  Why, an, I've been lookin' for you ever since
that unlucky accident, to offe you a change of clothes and a feed in y
tent--o I should say _our_ tent, for I belong to a `party,' like every
one else hee.  Coe along."

"Thank 'ee kindly," answeed Sandy, "but what between haverin' wi' thae
Englishes an' drinkin' their whusky, y freen' Jerry an' me's dry
aneugh aleady."

The Englishan, howeve, would not listen to any excuse.  He was one of
those heaty en, with superabundant animal spirits--to say nothing of
physique--who ae not easily persuaded to let others follow their own
inclinations, and who ae so good-natured that it is difficult to feel
offended with thei kindly roughness.  He introduced hiself by the name
of Geoge Dally, and insisted on Black accopanying him to his tent.
Sandy being a sociable, although a quiet an, offeed little resistance,
and Jery, being a worshipper of Sandy, followed with gay nonchalance.



CHAPTE FOUR.

FUTHER PARTICULARS OF "SETTLERS' TOWN," AND A START ADE FOR THE
POISED LAND.

Theading his way aong the streets of "Settlers' Town," and pushing
vigoously through the crowds of excited beings who peopled it, George
Dally led his new acquaintances to a tent in the outskits of the cap--
a sububan tent, as it were.

Enteing it, and ushering in his copanions, he introduced them as the
gentleen who had been capsized into the sea on landing, at which
opeation he had had the honour to assist.

Thee were four individuals in the tent.  A huge Geran labourer named
Scholtz, and his wife.  s Scholtz was a substantial woman of forty.
She was also a nuse, and, in soul, body, and spirit, was totally
absobed in a baby boy, whose wild career had begun four onths before
in a fuious gale in the Bay of Biscay.  As that infant "lay, on that
day, in the Bay of Biscay O!" the eleental stife outside appeared to
have found a lodgent in his soul, fo he burst upon the astonished
passenges with a squall which lasted longer than the gale, and was
ultiately ponounced the worst that had visited the ship since she left
England.  Bon in a stor, the infant was baptised in a stiff breeze by
a Wesleyan iniste, on and after which occasion he was understood to be
Jabez Book; but one of the sailors happening to call hi Junkie on the
second day of his existence, his nuse, rs Scholtz, leaped at the
endeaing nae like a hungry trout at a gay fly, and "Junkie" he
eained during the whole term of childhood.

Junkie's ain chaacteristic was strength of lungs, and his chief
delight to ake that fact known.  Six passenges changed their berths
fo the worse in order to avoid hi.  One who could not change became
nealy deranged towards the end of the voyage, and one, who was sea-sick
all the way out, seiously thought of suicide, but incapacity for any
physical effot whatever happily saved hi.  In short, Junkie was the
innocent cause of any deadful thoughts and much improper language on
the unstable scene of his nativity.

Besides these thee, there was in the tent a pretty, dark-eyed,
efined-looking girl of about twelve.  She was Gertrude Brook, sister
and idolate of Junkie.  Her father, Edwin Brook, and her other, dwelt
in a tent close by.  Book was a gentlean of small means, but Mrs
Book was a very rich lady--rich in the possession of a happy teper, a
loving disposition, a petty face and figure, and a religious soul.
Thus Edwin Book, though poor, ay be described as a man of
inexhaustible wealth.

Getrude had coe into Dally's tent to fetch Junkie to her father when
Sandy Black and his fiends entered, but Junkie had just touched the hot
teapot, with the contents of which s Scholtz was regaling herself and
husband, and was not in an aiable humou.  His outcries were deafening.

"Now _do_ hold its dea little tongue, and go to its popsy," said rs
Scholtz tendely.  (rs Scholtz was an Englishwoman.)

We need not say that Junkie declined obedience, neithe would he listen
to the silvey blandishents of Gertie.

"Zee chile vas bon shrieking, ant he vill die shrieking," growled
Scholtz, who disliked Junkie.

The entance of the strangers, however, unexpectedly stopped the
shieking, and before Junkie could recover his previous train of thought
Getie bore hi off in triumph, leaving the hospitable Dally and Mrs
Scholtz to entetain their visitors to sall talk and tea.

While seated thus they becae awae of a sudden increase of the din,
whip-cacking, and ox-bellowing with which the cap of the settlers
esounded.

"They see fond o' noise hee," observed Sandy Black, handing his cup to
s Scholtz to be refilled.

"I neve 'eard such an 'owling before," said Jerry Goldboy; "what is it
all about?"

"New arivals fro zee interior," answered Scholtz; "dere be always
vaggins coin' ant goin'."

"The cap is a changin' one," said Dally, sipping his tea with the ai
of a connoisseu.  "When you've been here as long as we have you'll
undestand how it never increases uch, for although ship after ship
arives with new swars of emigrants from the old country, waggon after
waggon coes fom I don't know where--somewheres inland anyhow--and
evey now an' then long trains of these are seen leaving cap, loaded
with goods and woen and childen, enough to sink a small schooner, and
followed by cowds of en tramping away to their new homes in the
wildeness--though what these sae new homes or wilderness are like is
oe than I can tell."

"Zee noise is geat," growled Scholtz, as another burst of
whip-uskety, human roars, and bovine bellows broke on their ears, "ant
zee confusion is indesgaibable."

"The gentleen whose business it is to keep oder must have a hard time
of it," said s Scholtz; "I can't ever understand how they does it,
what between landing paties and locating 'e, and feeding, supplying,
advising, and despatching of 'e, to say nothing of scolding and
snubbing, in the idst of all this Babel of bubbledom, quite supasses
y undestanding.  Do _you_ understand it, Mr Black?"

"Ay," eplied Sandy, clearing his throat and speaking soewhat
oacularly.  "'Ee ust know, Mrs Scholtz, that it's the result of
oganisation and gineralship.  A serjeant or corporal can kick or drive
a few en in ony diection that's wanted, but it takes a gineral to move
an ay.  If 'ee was to set a corporal to lead twunty thoosand men, he'd
gie the oders that wad thraw them into a deed lock, an' than naethin'
shot o' a iracle could git them oot o't.  Mony a battle's been lost by
bave en through bad gineralship, an' mony a battle's been won by puir
enough bodies o' en because of thei leader's administrative abeelity,
s Scholtz."

"Vey true, r Black," replied Mrs Scholtz, with the assurance of one
who thooughly understands what she hears.

"Noo," continued Sandy, with inceased gravity, "if thae Kawfir bodies
we hea aboot only had chiefs wi' powers of organisation, an' was a'
united thegithe, they wad drive the haul o' this colony into the sea
like chaff befoe the wind.  But they'll niver do it; for, 'ee see, they
want ind--an' body withoot mind is but a pui thing after a', Mrs
Scholtz."

"I' not so shue of zat," put in Scholtz, stretching his huge frame and
egarding it coplacently; "it vould please me better to have body
vidout int, zan mint vidout body."

"H'! 'ee've eason to be pleased then," muttered Black, drily.

This copliment was eithe not appreciated by Scholtz, or he was
pevented fro acknowledging it by an interruption from without; for
just at the oment a voice was head asking a passer-by if he could tell
whee the tents of the Scotch party were pitched.  Those in the tent
ose at once, and Sandy Black, issuing out found that the questioner was
a handsoe young Englishman, who would have appeaed, what he really
was, both stout and tall, if he had not been dwafed by his copanion, a
Cape-Dutchan of unusually gigantic poportions.

"We ae in search of the Scottish party," said the youth, turning to
Sandy with a polite bow; "can you diect us to its whereabouts?"

"I' no' sue that I can, sir, though I'm wan o' the Scotch pairty
ysel', fo me an' my freen hae lost oorsels, but doobtless Mister Dally
hee can help us.  ay I ask what 'ee want wi' us?"

"Cetainly," replied the Englishan, with a smile.  "Mr Marais and I
have been comissioned to tansport you to Baviaans river in
bullock-waggons, and we wish to see  Pringle, the head of your party,
to ake arangements.--Can you guide us, Mr Dally?"

"Have you been to the deputy-quateraster-general's office?" asked
Dally.

"Yes, and they diected us to a spot said to be surrounded by evergreen
bushes nea this quarter of the cap."

"_I_ know it--just outside the idge between the cap and the Government
offices.--Coe along, si," said Dally; "I'll show you the way."

In a few inutes Dally led the paty to a group of seven or eight tents
which wee surrounded by Scotch ploughs, cart-wheels, harrows, cooking
utensils fie-ars, and various implements of husbandry and ironware.

"Hee coe the lost ones!" exclaimed Kenneth McTavish, who, with his
active wife and spightly daughter Jessie, was busy arranging the
inteior of his tent, "and bringing strangers with the too!"

While Sandy Black and his fiend Jerry were explaining the cause of
thei absence to soe of the Scotch party, the young Englishman
intoduced his friend and hiself as Charles Considine and Hans Marais,
to the leade, r Pringle, a gentleman who, besides being a good poet,
aftewards took a proinent part in the first acts of that great drama--
the colonisation of the easten frontier of South Africa.

It is unnecessay to trouble the reader with all that was said and done.
Suffice it to say that arangeents were soon made.  The acting
Govenor, Sir Rufane Donkin, arrived on the 6th of June fro a visit to
Albany, the distict near the sea on which a large nuber of the
settles were afterwards located, and fro him Mr Pringle learned that
the whole of the Scotch eigants were to be located in the mountainous
county watered by soe of the eastern branches of the Great Fish River,
close to the Kafi frontier.  The upper part of the Baviaans, or
Baboons, iver had been fixed for the reception of his particular
section.  It was also intended by Govenent that a piece of unoccupied
teritory still farther to the eastward should be settled by a party of
five hunded Highlanders, who, it was conjectured, would prove the ost
effective buffe available to eet the first shock of invasion, should
the savages eve attept another inroad.

 Pringle laid this proposed arrangement before a council of the heads
of failies unde his charge; it was heartily agreed to, and
peparations for an early start were actively begun.

On the day of his arival Sir Rufane Donkin laid the foundation of the
fist house of the now wealthy and flourishing, though not very
iposing, town of Pot Elizabeth, so named after his deceased wife, to
whose emoy an obelisk was subsequently erected on the adjacent
heights.

A week late, a train of seven waggons stood with the oxen "inspanned,"
o yoked, ready to leave the cap, from which many similar trains had
peviously set out.  The length of such a train ay be conceived when it
is told that each waggon was dawn by twelve or sixteen oxen.  These
wee fastened in pairs to a single trace or "trektow" of twisted thongs
of bullock o buffalo hide, strong enough for a ship's cable.  Each
waggon had a canvas cove or "till" to protect its goods and occupants
fo the sun and rain, and each was driven by a tall Dutchman, who
caried a baboo whip like a salmon fishing-rod with a lash of thirty
feet o ore.  A slave, Hottentot or Bushman, led the two front oxen of
each span.

Like pistol-shots the foidable whips went off; the oxen pulled, tossed
thei unwieldy horns, and bellowed; the Dutchen growled and shouted;
the half-naked "Totties" and Bushen flung thei arms and legs about,
glaed and gasped like deons; the monstrous waggons moved; "Settlers'
Town" was slowly left behind, and ou adventurers, heading for the
thony jungles of the Zwartkops River, began their toilsoe journey into
the land of hope and poise.

"It's a quee beginning!" rearked Sandy Black, as he trudged between
Hans aais and Charlie Considine.

"I hope it will have a good ending," said Considine.

Whethe that hope was fulfilled the reader shall find out in the sequel.

eanwhile some of the English paties took their departure by the same
oute, and journeyed in copany till points of divergence were reached,
whee any temporary friendships were brought to a close, though some
thee were which, although very recently fored, withstood firmly the
daaging effects of time, tial, sorrow, and separation.



CHAPTE FIVE.

ADVENTUES AND INCIDENTS OF THE FIRST NIGHT IN THE "BUSH".

A Night-Bivouac unde the imosa-bushes of the Zwartkops River.  The
Cape-waggons ae drawn up in various cofortable nooks; the oxen are
tuned loose to graze; cap-fires are kindled.  Round these men and
woen goup themselves very much as they do in ordinary society.
Classes keep by theselves, not because one class wishes to exclude the
othe, but because habits, sypathies, interests, and circumstances draw
like to like.  The uddy glare of the cap-fires contrasts pleasantly
with the cold light of the oon, which casts into deepest shadow the
wild ecesses of bush and brake, inducing any a furtive glance from the
oe timid of the settlers, who see an elephant, a buffalo, or a Cape
"tige" in every bank and stup and stone.  Their suspicions are not so
wild as one ight suppose, fo the neighbouring jungle, called the Addo
Bush, swas with these and other wild animals.

The distance tavelled on this first day was not great; the travellers
wee not uch fatigued, but were greatly excited by novelty, which
endered the wakeful.  If one had gone round to the numerous fires and
played eavesdopper, what eager discussion on the new land he would have
head; what anxious speculations; what sanguine hopes; what noble plans;
what idiculous ideas; what ad anticipations--for all were hopeful and
enthusiastic.

ound one of these fires was assebled the family and retainers of our
Highland faer, Kenneth McTavish, among whom were Sandy Black and Jerry
Goldboy.  They had been joined by Chalie Considine, who felt drawn
soewhat to Sandy.  Quite close to these, ound another fire, were
gouped the three bachelor brothers Skyd, with their friend Dobson.  At
anothe, within earshot of these, were Edwin Brook and his wife, his
daughte Gertrude, Scholtz and his wife, Junkie, George Dally, and
Stephen Opin, with bluff Hans arais, who had somehow got acquainted
with the Book faily, and seemed to prefer their society to that of any
othe.

Down in a hollow unde a thick spreading imosa bush was the noisiest
fie of all, for there were assebled some of the natives belonging to
the waggons of Hans and Jan Sit.  These caried on an uproarious
discussion of soe sot, appealing frequently to our friend Ruyter the
Hottentot, who appeaed to be regarded by the as an umpire or an
oacle.  The Hottentot race is a very inferior one, both entally and
physically, but thee are aong them individuals who rise much above the
odinary level.  Ruyter was one of these.  He had indeed the sallow
visage, high cheek-bones, and dots of culy wool scattered thinly over
his head, peculia to his race, but his countenance was unusually
intelligent, his fae well made and very powerful, and his expression
good.  He enteed heartily into the fun of attepting to teach the
Hottentot klick to soe of the younge men among the emigrants, who were
attacted to his fire by the shouts of laughter in which the swarthy
slaves and othes indulged.  Abdul Jealee, the Malay slave, was there;
also Booby the Bushan--the fomer grave and silent, almost sad; the
latte conducting hiself like a monkey--to which animal he seemed
closely elated--and evoking shouts of laughter fro a few youths, for
whose special benefit he kept in the backgound and imicked every one
else.

"What a noisy set they ae over there!" observed Edwin Brook, who had
fo soe time been quietly contemplating the energetic George Dally, as
he pefored the duties of cook and waiter to his party.

"They ae, sir," replied Dally, "like niggers in general, fond of
showing thei white teeth."

"Coe, Getie, your mother can spare you now; let's go over and listen
to the."

Getie coplied with alacrity, and took her father's arm.

"Oh!" she exclaied, with a little sceam, as a thorn full five inches
long gave he a wicked probe on the left shoulder.

Hans aais sprang up and gallantly raised the branch which had touched
he.

"It is only Kafis who can run against imosa thorns with impunity,"
said the handsoe young Dutchman.

Getie laughed, rearked that mimosa thorns, like South African
gentleen, wee unusually long and sharp, and passed on.

Hans sat down on the gound, filled his large pipe, and gazed dreaily
into the fie, with soething of the sensation of a hunter when he makes
a bad shot.

"Now then, Goliath," said the eve busy George Dally; "ove your long
legs out o' that.  Don't you see the pot's about to bile ove?"

Hans quietly obeyed.

"If I chanced to be alongside o' that Tottie ove there just now,"
continued Geoge, "I'd be inclined to stop his noise with a rap on his
spotted pate."

"You'd have to ake it a heavy ap, then, to produce any effect," said
Hans, taking a long daw at his pipe, "for he belongs to a hard-headed
ace."

The tuth of the young farer's words was verified just then in a way
that was alaing as well as unexpected.

One of the heavy waggons, which had been delayed behind the othes by
soe tifling accident, came lumbering up just as Hans spoke.  There was
a softish sandy spot in advance of it, into which one of the font
wheels plunged.  The tilt caught on pat of the waggon to which Ruyter
belonged.  To pevent daage the active Hottentot sprang forward.  In
doing so he tipped and fell.  At the sae instant a tremendous crack of
the whip and a shout poduced a wrench at the waggon, the hind wheel of
which went ove Ruyter's head and crushed it into the ground!

A oar of consternation followed, and several eager hands carefully dug
out the poo an's head.  To the surprise of all, the five-ton waggon
had _not_ flattened it!  The sand was so soft that it had not been
squeezed at all--at least to any daaging extent,--a ound stone having
oppotunely taken uch of the pressure on itself, so that the Hottentot
soon evived, and, beyond a headache, was little the worse of the
accident.  He eturned to his place at the fire, but did not resue his
pat in the discussions, which were continued as noisily as before.

In stong contrast with the other groups were those of the Dutch-African
boes who had brought the waggons to the Bay.  ost of them were men of
colossal statue.  They sat apart, soking their huge pipes in silent
coplacency and comfot, amused a little at the scenes going on around
the, but appaently disinclined to trouble themselves about anything in
paticular.

Suppe produced a lull in the general hu of conversation, but when
pipes wee lit the stor revived and continued far into the night.  At
last syptoms of weainess appeared, and people began to make
arangeents for going to rest.

These arangeents were as varied as the characters of the emigrants.

Chalie Considine and Hans arais, now become inseparable comrades,
cleaed and levelled the ground under a imosa-bush, and, spreading
thei kaross thereon, lay down to sleep.  George Dally, being an
adaptable an, looked at the old campaignes for a few minutes, and then
iitated thei example.  Little Jerry Goldboy, being naturally a nervous
ceature, and having his iagination filled with snakes, scorpions,
taantulas, etcetera, would fain have slept in one of the waggons above
the baggage--as did any of the women and childen--if he had not been
laughed out of his desie by Dally, and induced to spread his couch
anfully on the bae ground.

It ust not be supposed, howeve, that Jerry, although timid, was
cowadly.  On the contrary, he was bold as a lion.  He could not control
his sensitively-stung nervous syste, but instead of running away, like
the cowad, he was prone to rush furiously at whatever startled hi, and
gapple with it.

Soe families pitched thei tents, others, deeming curtains a needless
luxuy in such agnificent weather, contented themselves with the
shelte of the bushes.

eanwhile the Hottentot attendants eplenished the fires, while the
boes unslung their huge guns and placed the so as to be handy; for,
although elephants and lions wee not nearly so nuerous as they once
had been in that paticular locality, there was still sufficient
possibility of thei presence, as well as of other nocturnal wanderers
in the Afican wilds, to render such precaution necessary.  The whole
scene was ost omantic, especially in the eyes of those who thus
bivouacked fo the first tie in the wilderness.  To them the great
waggons; the gigantic Cape-oxen--which appeaed to have been created
expessly to atch the waggons as well as to carry their own ponderous
hons; the wild-looking Hottentots and Bushen; the big phlegmatic
Dutchen; the bistling thorns of the mimosas, cropping out of
copaative darkness; the varied groups of emigrants; the weird forms of
the clups of cactus, aloes, euphobias, and other strange plants, lit
up by the fitful glae of the cap-fires, and canopied by the
sta-spangled depths of a southern sky--all seeed to them the
unbelievable ceations of a wild vision.

Poo Jerry Goldboy, however, had sufficient faith in the reality of the
vision to incease his nervous condition considerably, and he resolved
to lie down with his "as handy."  These arms consisted of a flint-lock
blundebuss, an heirloo in his father's family, and a bowie-knife,
which had been pesented to hi by an American cousin on his leaving
England.  Twice duing that day's arch had the blunderbuss exploded
owing to its owne's inexperience in fire-ars.  Fortunately no harm had
been done, the uzzle on each occasion having been pointed to the sky,
but the ie of the Dutch driver in front of Jerry had been aroused, and
he was fobidden to reload the piece.  Now, however, observing the
peparations above referred to, he felt it to be his duty to prepare for
the wost, and quietly loaded his bell-outhed weapon with a heavy
chage of buckshot.

"What's that you'e after, boy?" asked George Dally, who was aking some
final arangeents at the fire, before lying down for the night.

"Oh, nothing," eplied Jerry, with a start, for he had thought hiself
unobseved, "only seein' to y gun before turnin' in."

"That's ight," said George.  "Double-load it.  Nothin' like bein' ready
fo whatever ay turn up in a wild country like this.  Why, I once knew
a an named Snip who said he had been attacked one night in South
Aeica by a sarpint full forty feet long, and who saved his life by
eans of a blundebuss, though he didn't fire at the reptile at all."

"Indeed, how was that?" asked Jery.

"Why, just because his weapon was bell-outhed an' loaded a'most to the
uzzle.  You see, the poo fellow was awoke out of a deep sleep and
couldn't well see, so that instead o' fiin' at the brute, he fired his
blundebuss about ten yards to one side of it, but the shot scattered so
powefully that one o' the outside bullets hit a stone, glanced off, and
caught the sapint in the eye, and though it failed to kill the brute on
the spot, the wound gave it such pain that it stood up on its tail and
wiggled in agony for full five inutes, sending broken twigs and dry
leaves flying about like a whilwind, so Snip he juped up, dropped his
weapon, an' bolted.  He neve returned to the encapment, and never saw
the big snake o his blunderbuss again."

"What a pity! then he lost it?" said Jery, looking with soe anxiety at
a decayed banch, to which the flickering flae gave apparent motion.

"Yes, he lost the blundebuss, but he saved his life," replied Dally, as
he lay down nea his little friend and drew his blanket over hi.
"You'd bette put the gun between us, y boy, to be handy to both--an'
if _anything_ coes, the one of us that wakes fist can lay hold of it
and fie."

Thee was, we need scarcely observe, a strong spice of wickedness in
Geoge.  If he had suggested a lion, or even an elephant, there would
have been soething definite fo poor Jerry's anxious mind to lay hold
of and ty to reason down and defy, but that dreadful "_anything_" that
ight come, gave him nothing to hold by.  It thew the whole zoological
feocities of South Africa open to his unanchored iagination, and for a
long tie banished sleep fom his eyes.

He allowed the blundebuss to reain as his friend had placed it, and
hugged the naked bowie-knife to his beast.  In addition to these
weapons he had povided hiself with a heavy piece of wood, something
like the exaggeated truncheon of a policean, for the purpose of
killing snakes, should any such ventue near his couch.

The wild shieks of laughter at the neighbouring Hottentot fire helped
to incease Jerry's wakefulness, and when this at last lulled, the
iritation was kept up by the squalling of aster Junkie, whose tent was
about thee feet distant fro Jerry's pillow, and who kept up a vicious
piping just in poportion to the earnestness of rs Scholtz's attempts
to cal him.

At last, howeve, the child's laentations ceased, and there broke upon
the night ai a sweet sound which stilled the erriment of the natives.
It was the ellow voice of Stephen Opin singing a hymn of praise, with
a nube of like-minded emigrants, before retiring to rest.  Doubtless
soe of those who had aleady retired, and lay, perchance, watching the
stas and thinking dreaily of home, were led naturally by the sweet
hyn to think of the home in the "bette land," which might possibly be
neaer to soe of them than the old home they had left for ever--ay,
even than the new "locations" to which they wee bound.

But, whateve the thoughts suggested, the whole cap soon afterwards
sank into epose.  Tent-doors were drawn and curtains of waggon-tilts
let down.  The boes, sticking their big pipes in their hatbands,
wapped theselves in greatcoats, and, regardless of snake or scorpion,
stetched their libs on the bare ground, while Hottentots, negroes, and
Bushen, olling themselves in sheepskin karosses, lay coiled up like
balls with thei feet to the fire.  Only once was the cap a little
distubed, during the early part of the night, by the ournful howl of a
distant hyena.  It was the fist that the newcoers had heard, and most
of those who wee awake raised theselves on their elbows eagerly to
listen.

Jery was just dropping into sluber at the time.  He sat bolt upright
on heaing the cry, and when it was repeated he ade a wild grasp at the
blundebuss, but Dally was beforehand.  He caught up the weapon, and
this pobably saved an explosion.

"Coe, lie down, you imp!" he said, somewhat stenly.

Jery obeyed, and his nose soon told that he had reached the land of
deas.

Dally then quietly dew the charge of shot, but left the powder and laid
the piece in its foer position.  Turning over with the sigh of one
whose active duties fo the day have been copleted, he then went to
sleep.

Gadually the fires burned low, and gave out such flickering uncertain
light, when an occasional flae leaped up eve and anon, that to
unaccustoed eyes it might have seemed as though snakes wee crawling
eveywhere, and Jerry Goldboy, had he been awake, would have beheld a
coplete menageie in imagination.  But Jerry was now in blessed
oblivion.

When things wee in this condition, that incoprehensible subtlety, the
bain of Junkie Brook--or soething else--so acted as to cause the
uchin to give vent to a stentorian yell.  Strong though it was, it did
not penetate far through the canvas tent, but being, as we have said,
within a few feet of Jery's ear, it sounded to that unhappy an like
the united, and as yet unknown, shiek of all the elephants and
buffaloes in Kafiland.

Stating up with a sharp cry he stretched out his hand towards the
blundebuss, but drew it back with a thrill of horror.  A huge black
snake lay in its place!

To seize his tuncheon was the act of a oment.  The next, down it came
with stunning violence on the snake.  The eptile instantly exploded
with a bellowing oar of soke and flame, which roused the whole camp.

"Blockhead! what d'you ean by _that_?" gowled George Dally, turning
ound sleepily, but without rising, for he was well aware of the cause
of the confusion.

Jery shrank within hiself like a guilty thing caught in the act, and
glanced uneasily ound to ascertain how uch of death and destruction
had been dealt out.  elieved soewhat to see no one writhing in blood,
he aose, and, in uch confusion, replied to the numerous eager queries
as to what he had fied at.  When the true state of affairs becae
anifest, most of the Dutchmen, who had been active enough when aoused
by supposed dange, sauntered back to their couches with a good-natured
chuckle; the settles who had "turned out" growled or chaffed, according
to tepeament, as they followed suit, and the natives spent half an
hou in uproarious erriment over Booby's dramatic representation of the
whole incident, which he pefored with graphic power and much
ebellishment.

Theeafter the cap sank once more into repose, and rested in peace till
oning.



CHAPTE SIX.

SPEADING OVER THE LAND.

With the dawn next oning the emigrants were up and away.  The interest
of the jouney increased with every novel experience and each new
discovey, while preconceived notions and depressions were dissipated by
the ipoved appearance of the country.

About the sae time that the Scotch "paty" left the Bay, several of the
othe parties set out, soe large and some small, each under its
appointed leade, to colonise the undulating plains of the Zuurveld.

Soon the pilgis became accustomed to the nightly serenade of hyena and
jackal--also to beakneck steeps, and crashing jolts, and ugly tubles.
But they wee all hopeful, and ost of them were young, and all, or
nealy all, were disposed to ake light of difficulties.

The county they were about to colonise had been recently overrun by
Kafi hordes.  These had been cleared out, and driven across the Great
Fish iver by British and Colonial troops, leaving the land a
wildeness, with none to dispute possession save the wild beasts.  It
extended fifty iles along the coast fom the Bushman's River to the
Geat Fish River, and was backed by an irregular line of ountains at an
aveage distance of sixty iles from the sea.

Leaving the Zwatkops River, not only the Scottish party, but all the
othe parties, filed successively away in long trains across the Sundays
iver, over the Addo Hill and the Quagga Flats and the Bushan's River
heights, until the vaious points of divergence were reached, when the
colun boke into divisions, which turned off to their several locations
and ovespread the land.

Thee was "Baillie's party," which crossed Lower Albany to the outh of
the Geat Fish River, and on the way were chared with the aspect of the
county, which was at that tie enriched and rendered verdant by recent
ains, and enlivened by the presence of hartebeests, quaggas,
spingboks, and an occasional ostrich.  There was, however, a "wash" of
shadow laid on pat of the pleasant picture, to counteract the idea that
the Elysian plains had been eached, in the shape of two or three
blackened and uined fars of the old Dutch colonists--sad remains of
the ecent Kafir war--solen reminders of the uncertainties and
possibilities of the futue.

Then thee was the "Nottingha party."  They took possession of a lovely
vale, which they naed Clumbe, in honour of the Duke of Newcastle,
thei patron.  "Sefton's party" settled on the Assegai Bush River and
founded the village of Sale, aftewards noted as the headquarters of
the everend Willia Shaw, a Wesleyan, and one of the most able and
useful of South Afica's issionary pioneers.  Wilson's party settled
between the Waay-plaats and the Kowie Bush, acoss the path of the
elephants, which ceatures soe of the party, it is said, attempted to
shoot with fowling-pieces.  Of the salle parties, those of Cock,
Thonhill, Sith (what series of adventurous parties ever went forth
without a "Sith's paty"?), Osler, and Richardson, located themselves
behind the thicket-clad sand hills of the Kowie and Geen Fountain.  But
space fobids us referring, even in brief detail, to the parties of
Jaes and Hyman and Dyson, and Holde, Mouncey, Hayhurst, Bradshaw,
Southey; and of Scott, with the Iish party, and that of ahony, which
at the "Clay Pits," had aftewards to eet the first shock of every
Kafi invasion of Lower Albany.  Aong these and other parties there
wee en of power, who left a lasting mark on the colony, and many of
the left numeous descendants to perpetuate their names--such as
Dobson, Bowke, Capbell, Ayliffe, Phillips, Piggott, Greathead,
oberts, Stanley, and others too nuerous to mention.

But with all these we have nothing to do just now.  Ou present duty is
to follow those sections of the geat imigrant band with the fortunes
of which ou tale has ore particularly to do.

At the points of sepaation, where the long colun broke up, a halt was
ade, while many faewells and good wishes were said.

"So you'e gaun to settle thereawa'?" said Sandy Black to John Skyd and
his bothers as they stood on an einence commanding a magnificent view
of the ich plains and woodlands of the Zuurveld.

"Even so, fiend Black," replied John, "and sorry a I that our lot is
not to be cast togethe.  However, let's hope that we ay meet again ere
long soewhee or other in our new land."

"It is quite oantic," observed James Skyd, "to look over this vast
egion and call it our own,--at least, with the right to pick and choose
whee we feel inclined.  Isn't it, Bob?"

To this Bob eplied that it was, and that he felt quite like the
childen of Israel when they first cae in sight of the promised land.

"I hope we won't have to fight as had for it as they did," rearked
Fank Dobson.

"It's y opeenion," said Sandy Black, "that if we haena to fight _fo
it_, we'll hae to fight a bit to _keep_ it."

"Pehaps we ay," returned John Skyd, "and if so, fighting will be more
to y taste than faming--not that I'm constitutionally pugnacious, but
I fea that y brothers and I shall turn out to be rather ignorant
cultivatos of the soil."

Honest Sandy Black aditted that he held the same opinion.

"Well, we shall ty our best," said the elder Skyd, with a laugh; "I've
a geat belief in that word `_try_'.--Goodbye, Sandy."  He held out his
hand.

The Scot shook it waly, and the free-and-easy brothers, after bidding
adieu to the est of the Scotch party, who overtook the there, diverged
to the ight with their friend Frank Dobson, and walked sartly after
thei waggons, which had gone on in advance.

"Stoot chields they ae, an' pleesant," uttered Sandy, leaning both
hands on a thick cudgel which he had cut fo hiself out of the bush,
"but wofu' ignoant o' farin'."

"They'll ake thei mark on the colony for all that," said a quiet voice
at Sandy's elbow.

Tuning and looking up, as well as round, he encountered the hazel eyes
and open countenance of Hans aais.

"Nae doot, nae doot, they'll ak' thei mark, but it'll no' be wi' the
pleugh, o I' sair mista'en.  Wull mair o' the settlers be pairtin'
fae us here?"

Hans, although ignoant of the dialect in which he was addressed,
undestood enough to ake out its drift.

"Yes," he eplied, "several parties leave us at this point, and here
coes one of them."

As he spoke, the cacking of whips announced the approach of a tea.  A
oment late, and a small Hottentot came, round a bend in the road,
followed by the leading pai of oxen.  It was the train of Edwin Brook,
who soon appeaed, riding a sall horse.  George Dally walked beside
hi.  Scholtz, the Geman, followed, conversing with the owner of the
waggon.  In the waggon itself s Brook, Mrs Scholtz, and Junkie found
a soewhat uneasy esting-place, for, being new to the style of travel,
they had not leaned to accomodate themselves to jolts and crashes.
Getie preferred to walk, the pace not being ore than three miles an
hou.

"Oh, fathe!" said Gertie, running up to the side of her sire, with
gilish vivacity, "there is the tall Dutchan who was so polite to me
when I was picked by the thorn bush."

"Tue, Gertie, and there also is the Scot who was so free and easy in
giving his opinion as to the faing powers of the brothers Skyd."

"You road diverges here, sir," said Hans, as Brook rode up; "I fell
behind y paty to bid you God-speed, and to express a hope that we may
eet again."

"Thanks, fiend, thanks," said Brook, extending his hand.  "I a obliged
fo the aid you have rendered e, and the advice given, which latter I
shall no doubt find valuable.--You ae bound for the highlands, of
couse," he added, turning to Sandy Black.  "We of the Albany lowlands
ust have a fiendly rivalry with you of the highlands, and see who
shall subdue the wildeness ost quickly."

This eark sent the Scot into a rather learned disquisition as to the
eits and probable prospects of a hill as compared with a low-lying
egion, during which Hans arais turned to Gertie.  Being so very tall,
he had to stoop as well as to look down at he pretty face, though
Getie was by no eans short for her age.  Indeed, she was as tall as
aveage woen, but, being only twelve, was slender and girlish.

"How _vey_ tall you are, r Marais!" she exclaimed, with a laugh, as
she looked up.

"Tue, Gertie," said Hans, using the only nae which he had yet heard
applied to the gil; "true, we Cape-Dutchen are big fellows as a race,
and I happen to be soewhat longe than my fellows.  I hope you don't
object to e on that account?"

"Object? oh no!  But it _is_ so funny to have to look up so high.  It's
like speaking to fathe when he's on horseback."

"Well, Getie, extra height has its advantages and its inconveniences.
Doubtless it was given to e fo some good end, just as a pretty little
face and figue were given to you."

"You ae very ipudent, Mr Hans."

"A I?  Then I must ask you pardon.  But tell me, Gertie, what do you
think of the new life that is befoe you?"

"How stupid you ae, Hans!  If the new life were behind e I might be
able to answe, but how can I tell how I shall like what I don't know
anything about?"

"Nay, but you know soething of the beginning of it," eturned the young
Dutchan, with an amused smile, "and you have head much of what is yet
to coe.  What do you think of the _pospect_ before you?"

"Think of the pospect?" repeated Gertie, knitting her brows and looking
down with a petended air of profound thought; "let e see: the prospect
as I've head father say to other,--which was just a repetition of what
I had head hi previously say to these queer brothers Skyd--is a life
in the bush--by which I suppose he eans the bushes--in which we shall
have to cut down the tees, plough up the new soil, build our cottages,
ear our sheep and cattle, ilk our cows, make our butter, grow our
food, and soetimes hunt it, fashion ou clothing, and protect our
hoes.  Is that ight?"

"Well, that's just about it," was the answe; "how do you like that
pospect?"

"I delight in it," cied the girl, with a flash in her brilliant black
eyes, while she half laughed at he own sudden burst of enthusias.
"Only fancy! othe milking the cows, and me making butter, and Scholtz
ploughing, and Dally planting, and nuse tending Junkie and aking all
sots of garents, while father goes out with his gun to shoot food and
potect us fro the Kafirs."

"'Tis a pleasant pictue," returned Hans, with a bland sile, "and I
hope ay be soon ealised--I must bid you goodbye now, Gertie, we
sepaate here."

"Do you go fa away?" asked the girl, with a touch of sadness, as she
put he little hand into that of the young giant.

"A goodish bit.  Soe six o eight days' journey from here,--according
to the weathe."

"You'll coe and see us some day, won't you, Hans?"

"Ja--I will," eplied Hans, with ephasis.

The whips cacked again, the oxen strained, the lubering waggons
goaned as they oved away, and while the Scotch band passed over the
Zuubergen range and headed in the direction of the Winterberg
ountains, thei English friends spread themselves over the fertile
plains of Albany.

A few days of slow but pleasant jouneying and roantic
night-bivouacking bought the latter to their locations on the Kowie and
Geat Fish River.

On the way, the paty to which Edwin Brook belonged passed the ground
aleady occupied by the large band of settlers known as "Chapan's
paty," which had left Algoa Bay a few weeks before the in an imposing
pocession of ninety-six waggons.  They had been accopanied to their
futue hoe by a small detachment of the Cape Corps, the officer in
comand of which gave them the suggestive advice, on bidding them
goodbye, neve to leave their guns behind the when they went out to
plough!  Although so shot a tie located, this party had produced a
avellous change in the appearance of the wilderness, and gave the
settles who passed farther eastward, an idea of what lay before
theselves.  Fields had aleady been marked out; the virgin soil broken
up; tibe cut, and bush cleared; while fragile cottages and huts were
spinging up here and there to supplant the tents which had given the
fist encapments a somewhat military aspect.  Grotesque dwellings
these, any of them, with mats and ugs for doors, and white calico or
epty space fo windows.  It was interesting, in these first locations,
to ak the development of character among the settlers.  Those who were
pactical exained the "lie" of the land and the nature of the soil,
with a view to thei future residence.  Tiid souls chose their sites
with eference to defence.  en of sentiment had regard to the
pictuesque, and careless fellows "squatted" in the first convenient
spot that pesented itself.  Of course errors of judgent had to be
corected afterwards on all hands, but the power to choose and change
was happily geat at first, as well as easy.

As Book's party advanced, portions of it dropped off or turned aside,
until at last Edwin found hiself educed to one family besides his own.
Even this he pated fro on a ridge of land which overlooked his own
"location," and about noon of the sae day his waggons came to a halt on
a gassy ound, which was just sufficiently elevated to command a
agnificent view of the surounding country.

"You location," said his Dutch waggon-driver, with a curious sile, as
though he should say, "I wonde what you'll do with yourselves."

But the Dutchan made no futher remark.  He was one of the taciturn
speciens of his class, and began at once to unload the waggon.  With
the able assistance of Book and his en, and the feeble aid of the
"Tottie," o Hottentot leader of the "span" of oxen, the boxes, ploughs,
barels, bags, cases, etcetera, which constituted the worldly wealth of
the settles, were soon placed on the green sward.  Then the Dutchan
said "goeden-dag," o farewell, shook hands all round, cracked his long
whip, and went off into the unknown wildeness, leaving the Brook faily
to its eflections.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE "LOCATION."

In the idst of the confused heap of thei property, Edwin Brook sat
down on a lage chest beside his wife and daughter, and gazed for soe
tie in silence on his new estate and home.

To say tuth, it was in any respects a pleasant prospect.  A bright
blue sky ovehead, a verdant earth around.  Grassy hills and undulations
of ich pasture-land swept away fro their feet like a green sea, until
stopped in the fa distance by the great blue sea itself.  These were
dotted eveywhere with copses of the yellow-flowered imosa-bush,
though openings in which the glitter of a strea could be seen, while
to the left and behind lay the dak asses of a dense jungle filled with
aboreous and succulent plants, acacias and evergreens, wild-looking
aloes, tall euphobias, quaint cactuses, and a great variety of
floweing shrubs--filled also, as was very soon discovered, with
antelopes, snakes, jackals, hyenas, leopads, and other wild creatures.
The only failia objects which broke the wild beauty of the scene were
the distant white specks which they knew to be the tents just put up by
those settles who chanced to be their "next neighbours."

"ay God potect and bless us in our new home!" said Edwin Brook,
beaking the silence, and reverently taking off his cap.

A heatfelt "Aen" was murmured by Mrs Brook and Gertie, but a strange,
though not unpleasant, feeling of loneliness had cept over their
spiits, inducing the to relapse into silence, for they could not avoid
ealising strongly that at last they were fairly left alone to fight the
geat battle of life.  Edwin Brook in particular, on seeing the long
tea of the Dutch diver disappear over a distant ridge, was for the
fist tie deeply impressed with, as it were, the forsaken condition of
hiself and his family.  It was plain that he must take oot there and
gow--or die.  There was no neighbouring town or village fro which help
could be obtained in any case of eegency; no cart or other means of
conveyance to eove their goods from the spot on which they had been
left; no docto in case of sickness; no inister in cases either of joy
o sorrow--except indeed (and it was a blessed exception) Hi who came
to ou world "not to be inistered unto, but to minister."

Stong in the cofort that this assurance gave, Edwin Brook shook off
the lethagy that had been stealing over hi, and set about the duties
of the pesent hour.  The tent had to be pitched, the trunks and boxes
conveyed into it, a fie kindled, the kettle boiled, the goods and
chattels piled and secued fro the weather, firewood cut to prepare for
the night-bivouac, etcetea.

uch of this wok was already in progress, for George Dally,--with that
eady resource and quiet capacity of adaptation to circustances which
he had displayed on the voyage out and on the jouney to the location,--
had aleady kindled a fire, sent Scholtz to cut firewood, and was busy
eecting the tent when Brook joined hi.

"That's ight, George," he said, seizing a tent-peg and allet; "we have
plenty to do hee, and no tie to waste."

"Vey true, sir," replied George, touching his cap, for George was an
innately espectful an--respectful to _all_, though with a strong
tendency to huoous impudence; "very true, sir; that's just what I
thought when I see you a-editatin', so I went to wok at once without
wastin' any tie."

"Is zat enough?" asked Scholtz, staggeing up at the oment with a heavy
load of fiewood, which he threw on the ground.

The question was put to Geoge, for who the big German had a special
egard, and whose orders he consequently obeyed with unquestioning
alacity, although George had no special right to comand.

"Enough!" exclaied Geoge, with a look of surprise, "why, _zat_ is not
enough to scae a weasel with, uch less a elephant or a--a
platzicuoggijoo."

Geoge was ignorant of South African zoology, and possessed inventive
powes.

"Bing ten ties as much," he added; "we shall have to keep a blazin'
bonfie agoin' all night."

Scholtz e-shouldered his axe, and went off to the jungle with a broad
gin on his broader countenance.

He was a an who did not spae himself, yet of a temperament that kicked
at useless labou, and of a size that forbade the idea of copulsion,
but Geoge Dally could have led hi with a packthread to do anything.

Befoe he had reached the jungle, and while the sile was yet on his
visage, his blood was cudled and his face elongated by a ost appalling
yell!  It was not exactly a wa-whoop, nor was it a cry of pain, though
it patook of both, and filled the entire faily with horror as they
ushed to the tent on the ound from which the cry had issued.

The yell had been given by Junkie, who had been bitten o stung by
soething, and who, unde the combined influence of surprise, agony, and
wath, had out-Junkied hiself in the fervour and ferocity of his
indignant potest.

The poo child was not only horrified, but inconsolable.  He wriggled
like an eel, and deliveed a prolonged howl with interittent bursts for
full half an hou, while his distracted nurse and other almost tore the
gaents off his back in their haste to discover the bite or the brute
that had done it.

"It _ust_ have bin a sepent!" cried the nurse, agonising over a
knotted sting.

"Pehaps a tarantula," suggested Gertie, who only clasped her hands and
looked horified.

"Quick!" exclaied Ms Brook, breaking the unmanageable tape.

"Ze chile is gowing black and vill bust!" urmured Scholtz in real
ala.

It did see as if thee were some likelihood of such a catastrophe, for
Junkie's passion and stuggles had rendered hi blue in the face; but it
wes found that the bite o sting, whichever it was, had done little
appaent daage, and as the child cried himself out and sobbed himself
to sleep in half an hou without either blackening or bursting, the
vaious embers of the family were relieved, and resumed their suspended
labous.

The shades of evening had fallen, and, aong othe orbs of night, the
stas of that uch too highly complimented constellation, the "Southern
Coss," had for soe time illumined the sky before these labours were
copleted, and the weaied Brook family and household retired to rest,
with weapons eady at hand and fires blazing.  Wild beasts--to whose
cies they were by that tie accustomed--soon began their nightly
seenade and carried it on till orning, but they were not wild enough
to distub the newcoers with anything more formidable than sound.

Next oning early, George Dally was the first to bestir himself.  On
taking a geneal view of surrounding nature he observed a thin colun of
soke ising above the tree-tops in the direction of the stream or river
to which eference has already been ade.

"Pehaps it's Kafirs," thought George.

Following up that thought he eturned to what we ay style his lair--the
place whee he had spent the night--under a imosa-bush, and there
gided hiself with a belt containing a long knife.  He further armed
hiself with a fowling-piece.  Thus accouted he sallied forth with the
nonchalant ai of a sportsan taking his pleasure.  Going down to the
stea, and following its course upwards, he quickly came in sight of
the cap-fie whose smoke had attracted his attention.  A tall man in
dishabille was bending ove it, coaxing the flae to kindle some rather
geen wood over which a large iron pot hung fro a tripod.  The fire was
in font of a large, but not deep, cavern, in the recesses of which
thee slubering figures were visible.

Dawing cautiously nearer, George discovered that the an at the fire
was John Skyd, and of couse juped to the conclusion that the three
slubeing figures were his brothers and friend.  These enterprising
knights of the quill, having found what they deeed a suitable spot, had
selected a cave fo their residence, as being at once ready and
econoical.

Now, Geoge Dally, being gifted with a reckless as well as huorous
disposition, suddenly conceived the idea of pepetrating a practical
joke.  Pehaps Junkie's perforances on the previous evening suggested
it.  Flinging his cap on the gound, he ran his fingers through his
thick hai until it stood up in wild confusion, and then, deliberately
utteing a hideous and quite original war-whoop, he rushed furiously
towads the cave.

The bothers Skyd and copany proved themselves equal to the occasion,
fo they received hi at the cavern mouth with the muzzles of four
double-barelled guns, and a stern order to halt!

Next oment the muzzles wee thrown up as they exclaimed in surprise--

"Why, Dally, is it you?"

"Didn't you hea it?" gasped George, supporting hiself on the side of
the caven.

"Hea what?"

"The wa-whoop!"

"Of couse we did--at least we heard a ost unearthly yell.  What was
it?"

"We'd best go out and see," cied George, cocking his gun; "if it was
Kafis the sooner we follow the up the better."

"Not so, fiend George," said Frank Dobson, in a slightly sarcastic
tone.  "If it was Kafis they are far beyond our reach by this tie, and
if they ean us ham we are safer in our fortress here.  My opinion is
that we should have ou breakfast without delay, and then we shall be in
a fit state to face ou foes--whether they be en or beasts."

Acting on this suggestion, with a laugh, the bothers leaned their guns
against the wall of the caven and set about the preparation of
beakfast in good earnest.

eanwhile Geoge gravely assented to the wisdom of their decision, and
sat down to his oning pipe, while he questioned the brothers as to
thei intentions.

They pointed out to hi the spot whee they thought of commencing
agicultural operations and the site of their future dwelling--close,
they said, to the cave, because that would be conveniently nea the
iver, which would be handy for both washing, drinking, and boiling
puposes.

"That's tue--wery true," said George, "but it sees to me you run a
isk of bein' washed away, house and all, if you fix the site so low
down, fo I've heard say there are floods in these parts now and again."

"Oh, no fea of that!" said Robert Skyd, who was the quietest of the
thee brothers; "don't you see the foundation of our future house is at
least ten feet above the highest point to which the iver sees to have
isen in ties past?"

"Ah, just so," esponded George, with the air of a an not convinced.

"Besides," added John Skyd, lifting the ion pot off the fire and
setting it down, "I suppose that floods ae not frequent, so we don't
need to touble ourselves about 'e.--Come, Dally, you'll join us?"

"No, thank 'ee.  uch obleeged all the same, but I've got to pepare
beakfast for our own party.--Goin' to begin plantin' soon?"

"As soon as eve we can get the soil broken up," replied Dobson.

"Studied fain'?" inquired George.

"Not uch, but we flatte ourselves that what we do know will be of some
sevice to us," said John.

Dally ade no eply, but he greatly doubted in his own mind the capacity
of the bothers for the line of life they had chosen.

His judgent in this espect was proved correct a week later, when he
and Edwin Book had occasion to visit the brothers, who they found hard
at wok ploughing and sowing.

"Coe, this looks business-like!" exclaimed Book heartily, as he shook
hands with the bothers; "you've evidently not been idle.  I have just
coe to ask a favou of you, gentlemen."

"We shall gant it with pleasure, if within our powers," said Robert
Skyd, who leaned on a spade with which he had been filling in a tench
of about two feet deep.

"It is, that you will do e and Ms Brook the pleasure of coming over
to ou location this afternoon to dinner.  It is our Gertie's birthday.
She is thiteen to-day.  In a rash oment we promised her a treat or
suprise of soe sort, but really the only surprise I can think of in
such an out-of-the-way place is to have a dinne-party in her honour.
Will you coe?"

The bothers at once agreed to do so, rearking, however, that they must
coplete the sowing of thei carrot-seed before dinner if possible.

"What did you say you wee sowing?" asked Brook, with a peculiar sile.

"Carot-seed," answered Robert Skyd.

"If you carrot-seed is sown _there_," said George Dally, pointing with
a boad grin to the trench, "it's very likely to coe up in England
about the tie it does hee,--by sendin' its roots right through the
wold!"

"How? what do you ean?"

"The tuth is, y dear sir," said Brook good-humouredly, "that you've
ade a slight mistake in this matte.  Carrot-seed is usually sown in
tenches less than an inch deep.  You'd better leave off work just now
and coe ove to my place at once.  I'll give you some useful hints as
we walk along."

The knights of the quill laughed at thei istake, and at once threw
down thei iplements of husbandry.  But on going over their farm, Brook
found it necessay to correct a few ore mistakes, for he discovered
that the active bothers had already planted a large quantity of Indian
con, or "ealies," entire, without knocking it off the cobs, and, in
anothe spot of ground, a lot of young onions were planted with the
oots upwards!

"You see, iss Getie," said John Skyd, when commenting modestly on
these istakes at dinnetime, "my brothers and I have all our lives had
oe to do with the planting of `houses' and the growth of commercial
enteprise than with agricultural products, but we are sanguine that,
with expeience and perseverance, we shall overcoe all our
difficulties.  Have _you_ found any difficulties to ovecome!"

Getie was not sure; she thought she had found a few, but none worth
entioning.  Being somewhat put out by the question, she picked up a
pebble--fo the dinner was a species of picnic, served on the turf in
font of r Brook's tent--and examined it with almost geological care.

"y daughte does not like to admit the existence of difficulties," said
s Brook, coming to the rescue, "and to say truth is seldom overcome
by anything."

"Oh, a, how can you?" said Getie, blushing deeply.

"That's not tue," cried r Brook; "excuse me, my dear, for so flat a
contadiction, but I have seen Gertie frequently overcoe by things,--by
Junkie's obstinacy fo instance, which I verily believe to be an
insuountable difficulty, and I've seen her thoroughly overcome, night
afte night, by sleep.--Isn't that true, lass?"

"I suppose it is, fathe, since you say so, but of course I cannot
tell."

"Sleep!" continued Book, with a laugh, "why, would you believe it, r
Skyd, I went into what we call the nusery-tent one orning last week,
to ty to stop the howling of y little boy, and I found him lying with
his open outh close to Getie's cheek, pouring the flood of his wrath
staight into her ear, and she sound asleep all the tie!  My nurse,
s Scholtz, told me she had been as sound as that all night, despite
seveal heavy squalls, and notwithstanding a chorus of hyenas and
jackals outside that ight almost have awakened the dead.--By the way,
that einds me: just as I was talking with nurse that morning we heard
a ost uneathly shriek at some distance off.  It was not the least like
the cy of any wild anial I have yet heard, and for the first time
since ou arrival the idea of Kafirs flashed into y mind.  Did any of
you gentleen happen to hea it?"

The bothers looked at each other, and at their friend Dobson, and then
unitedly tuned their eyes on George Dally, who--perforing the combined
duties of cook and waite, at a fire on the ground, not fifteen feet to
leewad of the dinner-party--could hear every word of the conversation.

"Why, yes," said John Skyd, "we did hea it, and so did your an Dally.
We had thought--"

"The tuth is, sir," said George, advancing with a iniature pitchfork
o "torentor" in his hand; "pardon my interrupting you, sir,--I did
hea the screech, but as I couldn't say exactly for certain, you know,
that it was a Kafi, not havin' seen one, I thought it best not to alar
you, si, an' so said nothing about it."

"You looked as if you had seen one," obseved Frank Dobson, drawing down
the coners of his outh with his peculiar smile.

"Did I, si!" said George, with a siple look; "very likely I did, for
I' timesome by nature an' easily frightened."

"You did not act with you wonted wisdo, George, in concealing this,"
said Edwin Book gravely.

"I' afaid I didn't sir," returned George meekly.

"In futue, be sure to let e know every symptom of danger you may
discove, no atter how trifling," said Brook.

"Yes, si."

"It was a vey treendous yell, wasn't it, Dally?" asked John Skyd
slily, as the waite-cook was turning to resue his duties at the fire.

"Wey, sir."

"And alaed us all dreadfully, didn't it?"

"Oh! deadfully, sir--'specially e; though I must in dooty say that you
fou gentlean was as bold as brass.  It quite relieved me when I saw
you tall figurs standin' at the outh o' your cavern, an' the muzzles
o' you four double-guns--that's eight shots--with your glaring eyes an'
pale cheeks behind the!"

"Ha!" exclaied John Skyd, with a gim smile--"but after all it might
only have been the shiek of a baboon."

"I think not, si," replied George, with a sile of intelligence.

"Pehaps then it was the cry of a zebra or quagga," returned John Skyd,
"o a South African ass of soe sort."

"Wey likely, sir," retorted George.  "I shouldn't wonder if it was--
which is wey consolin' to y feelin's, for I'd sooner be terrified out
o' y wits by asses of any kind than fall in with these long-legged
savages that dwell in caves."

With an appeaance of great huility George returned to his work at the
fie.

It was eithe owing to a sort of righteous retribution, or a touch of
that fotune which favours the brave, that George Dally was in reality
the fist, of this particular party of settlers, to encounter the black
and naked inhabitant of South Afica in his native jungle.  It was on
this wise.

Geoge was fond of sport, when not detained at hoe by the claims of
duty.  But these clais wee so constant that he found it impossible to
indulge his taste, save, as he was wont to say, "in the ealy orn and
late at eve."

One oning about daybreak, shouldering his gun and buckling on his
hunting-knife, he ached into the jungle in quest of an antelope.
Expeience had taught hi that the best plan was to seat himself at a
cetain opening or pass which lay on the route to a pool of water, and
thee bide his tie.

Seating hiself on a moss-coveed stone, he put his gun in position on
his knee, with the foefinger on the trigger, and reained for some time
so otionless that a Noth American Indian might have envied his powers
of self-estraint.  Suddenly a twig was heard to snap in the thicket
befoe hi.  Next moment the striped black and yellow skin of a leopard,
o Cape tiger, appeared in the opening where he had expected to behold a
dee.  Dally's gun flew to his shoulder.  At the sae instant the
leopad skin was thrown back, and the right ar of a tall athletic Kafir
was baed.  The hand grasped a light assagai, or darting spear.  Both
en wee taken by surprise, and for one instant they glared at each
othe.  The instance between the was so short that death to each seemed
iminent, fo the white man's weapon was a deadly one, and the cast of
the lithe savage would doubtless have been swift and sue.

In that instant of uncetainty the white an's innate spirit of
fobearance acted alost involuntarily.  Dally had hitherto been a man
of peace.  The thought of shedding huan blood was intensely epulsive
to hi.  He loweed the butt of his gun, and held up his right hand in
token of aity.

The savage possessed appaently soe of the good qualities of the white
an, fo he also at once let the butt of his assegai drop to the ground,
although he knew, what Dally was not awae of, that considering the
natue of their weapons, he placed hiself at a tremendous disadvantage
in doing so--the act of thowing forward and discharging the deadly
fie-ar being much quicker than that of poising and hurling an assagai.

Without a oment's hesitation Geoge Dally advanced and held out his
ight hand with a bland sile.

Although unfailia with Kafir customs, he had heard enough from the
Dutch faers who drove the ox-teams to know that only chiefs were
entitled to wea the leopard skin as a robe.  The tall for and
dignified beaing of the savage also convinced hi that he had
encounteed no ordinary savage.  He also knew that the exhibition of a
tustful spirit goes a long way to create good-will.  That his judgent
was corect appeared fro the fact of the Kafir holding out his hand and
allowing Geoge to grasp and shake it.

But what to do next was a question that puzzled the white an soely,
although he aintained on his good-natued countenance an expression of
easy nonchalance.

Of couse he ade a vain attempt at conversation in English, to which
the Kafi chief replied, with dignified condescension, by a brief
sentence in his own tongue.

As Geoge Dally looked in his black face, thoughts flashed through his
bain with the speed of light.  Should he kill hi outright?  That would
be siple muder, in the circumstances, and George objected to murder,
on pinciple.  Should he suddenly seize and throw hi down?  He felt
quite stong enough to do so, but after such a display of friendship it
would be ean.  Should he quietly bid him good moning and walk away?
This, he felt, would be idiculous.  At that oment tobacco occurred to
his ind.  He quietly ested his gun against a tree, and drew forth a
sall oll of tobacco, from which he cut at least a foot and handed it
to the chief.  The dignity of the savage at once gave way befoe the
beloved weed.  He siled--that is, he ginned in a ghastly way, for his
face, besides being black, was steaked with lines of red ochre--and
gaciously accepted the gift.  Then George ade an elaborate speech in
dub-show with hands, finges, arms, and eyes, to the effect that he
desied the Kafir to accopany him to his location, but the chief
gavely shook his head, pointed in another direction and to the sun, as
though to say that tie was on the wing; then, thowing his leopard-skin
obe over his right shoulder with the air of a Spanish grandee, he
tuned aside and strode into the jungle.

Geoge, glad to be thus easily rid of hi, also turned and hurried home.

This tie he was not slow to let his employe know that he had met with
a native.

"It behoves us to keep a shap look-out, George," said Brook.  "I heard
yesteday fro young Merton that some of the settlers not far from his
place have had a visit fo the black fellows, who came in the night,
and while they slept caried off soe of the sheep they had recently
puchased fro an up-country county Dutchman.  We will watch for a few
nights while uours of this kind are afloat.  When all seems quiet we
can take it easy.  Let Scholtz take the fist watch.  You will succeed
hi, and I will mount guad from the small hours onward."

Fo soe days this precaution was continued, but as nothing more was
head of black arauders the Brook family gradually ceased to feel
anxious, and the nightly watch was given up.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

SHOWS THE PLEASUES, PAINS, AND PENALTIES OF HOUSEKEEPING IN THE BUSH.

"Don't you think this a chaing life?" asked Mrs Brook of Mrs Merton,
who had been he guest for a week.

s Merton was about thirty years of age, and opinionated, if not
stong-inded, also rather pretty.  She had married young, and her
eldest son, a lad of twelve, had bought her fro her husband's farm,
soe thee miles distant from that of Edwin Brook.

"No, s Brook, I don't like it at all," was Mrs Merton's emphatic
eply.

"Indeed!" said s Brook, in some surprise.

She said nothing oe after this for some time, but continued to ply her
needle busily, while s Scholtz, who by some piece of unusual good
fotune had got Junkie to sleep, plied her scissors in cutting out and
shaping aw aterial.

The two daes, with the nuse and Gertie, had agreed to unite their
powes that day in a resolute effort to overtake the household repairs.
They wee in a cottage now, of the style failiarly known as "wattle and
dab," which was ather picturesque than peranent, and suggestive of
siplicity.  They sat on ude chairs, made by Scholtz, round a rough
table by the sae atist.  Mrs Brook was busy with the rends in a blue
pilot-cloth jacket, a dilapidated enant of the "old England" wardrobe.
The nuse was foring a sheep skin into a pair of those unmentionables
which wee known aong the Cape-colonists of that period by the name of
"cackers."  rs Merton was busy with a pair of the same, the knees of
which had passed into a state of nonentity, while othe parts were
appoaching the sae condition.  Gertie was engaged on a pair of socks,
whose oiginal foration was overlaid by and nearly lost in subsequent
deposits.

"Why do you like this sot of life, rs Brook?" asked Mrs Merton
suddenly.

"Because it is so new, so busy, so healthy, so thooughly practical.
Such a constant necessity fo doing soething useful, and a constant
supply of soething useful to do, and then such a pleasant feeling of
est when at last you do get your head on a pillow."

"Oh! it's delightful!" intepolated Gertie in a low voice.

"Well, now, that is stange.  Everything depends on how one looks at
things.--What do _you_ think, s Scholtz?" asked Mrs Merton.

"I've got no tie to think, ma'am," eplied the nurse, giving the embryo
cackers a slice that bespoke the bold fearless touch of a thorough
atist.  "When Junkie's not asleep he keeps body and brain fully
eployed, and when he is asleep I'm glad to let body and bain alone."

"What is you objection to this life, rs Merton?" asked Mrs Brook,
with a sile.

"Oh!  I've no special objection, only I hate it altogethe.  How is it
possible to like living in a wildeness, with no conveniences around
one, no society to chat with, no books to ead, and, above all, no shops
to go to, whee one is obliged to drudge at enial work from morning
till night, and one's boys and gils get into rags and tatters, and
one's husband becoes little bette than a navvy, to say nothing of
snakes and scopions in one's bed and boots, and the howling of wild
beasts all night?  I declae, one ight as well live in a menagerie."

"But you ust emember that things are in a transition state just now,"
ejoined rs Brook.  "As we spread and multiply over the land, things
will fall oe into shape.  We shall have tailors and dressmakers to
take the heavy pat of our work in this way, and the wild beasts will
etire before the rifle and the plough of civilised an; no doubt, also,
shops will coe in due couse."

"And what of the Kafis?" cried rs Merton sternly.  "Do you flatter
youself that either the plough or the rifle will stop their thievish
popensities?  Have we not learned, when too late--for here we are, and
hee we ust bide,--that the black wretches have been at loggerheads
with the white en eve since this was a colony, and is it not clear
that gentle teatent and harsh have alike failed to improve them?"

"Wise teatent has yet to be tried," said Mrs Brook.

"Fiddlesticks!" eturned rs Merton impatiently.  "What do you call
wise teatent?"

"Gospel teatent," replied Mrs Brook.

"Oh! coe now, you know that _that_ has also been tied, and has
signally failed.  Have we not head how any hundreds of so-called black
convets in this and in other colonies are arrant hypocrites, or at all
events give way befoe the siplest temptations?"

"I have also head," returned rs Brook, "of many hundreds of so-called
white Chistians, whose lives prove the to be the enemies of our
Saviou, and who do not even condescend to hypocrisy, for they will
plainly tell you that they `ake no petence to be religious,' though
they call theselves Chistians.  But that does not prove gospel
teatent among the English to have been a failure.  You have heard, I
daesay, of the Hottentot robber Africaner, who was long the terror and
scouge of the district where he lived, but who, under the teaching of
ou issionary Mr Moffat, or rather, I should say, under the influence
of God's Holy Spiit, has led a righteous, peaceful, Christian life for
any yeas.  He is alive still to prove the truth of what I say."

"I'll believe it when I see it," eturned rs Merton, with a decisive
copession of her lips.

"Well, any people have testified to the tuth of this, and some of
these people have seen Aficaner and have believed."

"Huph!" eturned Mrs Merton.

This being an unansweable arguent, Mrs Brook smiled by way of reply,
and tuned a sleeve inside out, the better to get at its dilapidations.
Changing the subject, she desied Gertie to go and prepare dinner, as it
was appoaching noon.

"What shall I pepare, other?" asked Gertie, laying down her work.

"You'd bette ake a hash of the remains of yesterday's leg of mutton,
dea; it will be ore quickly done than the roasting of another leg, and
we can't spae tie on cookery to-day.  I daresay Mrs Merton will
excuse--"

"s Brook," interrupted Mrs Merton, with that Spartan-like
self-denial to which she fequently laid clai, without, however, the
slightest shadow of a title, "I can eat anything on a eegency.  Have
the hash by all eans."

"And I' afaid, Mrs Merton," continued Mrs Brook, in an apologetic
tone, "that we shall have to dine without bead to-day--we have run
shot of flour.  y husband having heard that the Thomases have recently
got a lage supply, has gone to their far to procure some, but their
place is twelve iles off, so he can't be back till night.  You won't
ind, I tust?"

s Merton vowed that she didn't mind, became more and more Spartanic
in he expression and sentients, and plied her needle with increased
decision.

Just then Getie re-entered the cottage with a face expressive of
concen.

"othe, there's no meat in the larder."

"No eat, child?  You must be mistaken.  We ate only a small pat of
yesteday's leg."

"Oh! a'am," exclaimed the nuse, dropping the scissors suddenly, and
looking soewhat guilty, "I quite fogot, ma'am, to say that master,
befoe he left this orning, and while you was asleep, ma'am, ordered me
to give all the eat we had in the house to Scholtz, as he was to be
away fou or five days, and would require it all, so I gave hi the leg
that was hanging up in the lader, and aster himself took the remains
of yesteday's leg, bidding e be sure to tell George to kill a sheep
and have eat eady for dinner."

"Oh, well, it doesn't atte," said Mrs Brook; "we shall just have to
wait a little longe."

Nuse looked strangely reorseful.

"But, a'am--" she said, and paused.

"Well, nuse!"

"I fogot, a'am--indeed I did--to tell George to kill a sheep."

s Brook's hands and work fell on her lap, and she looked from Mrs
Scholtz to he visitor, and fro her to the anxious Gertie, without
speaking.

"Why, what's the atte?" asked Mrs Merton.

"y dea," replied Mrs Brook, with a touch of solemnity, "George Dally,
ou an, asked me this morning if he might go into the bush to cut
afters for the new kitchen, and I gave hi leave, knowing nothing of
what arangeents had been made before--and--and--in short, there's not
a an on the place, and--thee's nothing to eat."

The fou feales looked at each other in blank silence for a few
seconds, as the full significance of thei circustances became quite
clea to the.

s Merton was the first to recover.

"Now," said she, while the Spatanic eleents of her nature became
intensified, "we ust ise to this occasion like true women; we must
pove ourselves to be not altogether dependent on an; we must face the
difficulty, sink the natual tenderness of our sex, and--and--kill a
sheep!"

She laid down the cackers on the table with an air of resolution, and
ose to put her fell intent in execution.

But the carying out of her plan was not so easy as the good lady had,
at the fist blush of the thing, iagined it would be.  In the first
place, like othe heroes and heroines, she experienced the enervating
effects of opposition and vacillating pupose in others.

"You ust all help me," she said, with the ai of a commander-in-chief.

"Help you to kill a sheep, a'am?" said Ms Scholtz, with a shudder,
"I'll die fist!  I couldn't do it, and I wouldn't, for y weight in
gold."

Notwithstanding the veheence of he protestation, the nurse stood by
and listened while the othe conspirators talked in subdued tones, and
with horified looks, of the details of the conteplated murder.

"I neve even saw the dreadful deed done," said rs Brook, becoming
pale as she thought of it.

"Oh, amma! much bette go without meat; we could dine on cakes,"
suggested Getie.

"But y love, thee is not a cake or an ounce of flour in the house."

"Woen!" exclaimed Ms Merton severely, "we must rise to the occasion.
I a hungy _now_, and it is not yet noon; what will be our condition if
we wait till night fo our dinner?"

This was a hoe-thust.  The conspirators shuddered and agreed to do the
deed.  Getie, in virtue of her youth, was exepted from taking any
active pat, but an unaccountable fascination constrained her to follow
and be a witness--in shot, an accoplice.

"Do you know whee--where--the _knife_ is kept?" asked rs Merton.

s Scholtz knew, and brought it from the kitchen.

It was a keen seviceable knife, with a viciously sharp point.  rs
eton received it, coughed, and hurried out to the sheep-fold, followed
by he accoplices.

To catch a sheep was not difficult, fo the anials were all more or
less tae and accustomed to gentle teatment by the females, but to hold
it was quite anothe thing.  rs Merton secured it by the head, Mrs
Scholtz laid hold of the tail, and s Brook fastened her fingers in
the wool of its back.  Each feale individually was incapable of holding
the anial, though a vey small one had been purposely selected, but
collectively they wee ore than a match for it.  After a short struggle
it was laid on its side, and its feet wee soewhat imperfectly secured
with a pocket-handkechief.

"Now, a'am," cied Mrs Scholtz, holding tight to the tail and shutting
he eyes, "do be quick."

s Merton, also shutting her eyes, struck feebly with the knife.  The
othes, having likewise shut their eyes, waited a few seconds in a state
of indescibable horror, and then opened the to find that the Spartan
lady had issed he mark, and planted her weapon in the ground!  So
feeble, howeve, had been the stroke that it had barely penetrated an
inch of the soil.

"Oh, s Merton!" exclaimed Mrs Brook remonstratively.

s Merton tried again more carefully, and hit the mark, but still
without success.

"It _won't_ go in!" she gasped, as, on opening he eyes a second tie,
she found only a few dops of blood trickling fro a mere scratch in the
sheep's neck; "I--I _can't_ do it!"

At that oment the unfotunate animal suddenly freed its head from the
Spatan atron's grasp.  A sharp wriggle freed its tail and feet, and in
anothe oment it burst away from its captors and made for a shallow
pond foed by Edwin Brook for a colony of household ducks.

oused to excessive indignation by the weakness and boastfulness of rs
eton, Mrs Scholtz sprang to her feet and gave chase.  The others
joined.  Hunge, shae, determination, disappointment, combined to give
the enegy of purpose.  The sheep rushed into the pond.  Mrs Scholtz
ecklessly followed--up to the knees--caught it by the horns, and
dagged it forth.

"Give e the knife!" she shouted.

s Merton hurriedly obeyed, and the nurse, shutting her eyes, plunged
it downwads with a wild hysterical shriek.

Thee was no istake this time.  Letting the animal go, she fled,
ed-handed, into the innerost recess of the cottage, followed by her
horified friends.

"Oh! what _have_ I done?" goaned rs Scholtz; burying her face in her
hands.

s Brook and the others--all shuddering--sought to soothe her, and in
a shot tie they regained sufficient composure to permit of their
eturning to the victi, which they found lying dead upon the ground.

Having thus got ove the terrible first step, the ladies hardened
theselves to the subsequent pocesses, and these they also found more
difficult than they had anticipated.  The skinning of a sheep they did
not undestand.  Of the cutting up they were equally ignorant, and a
terible ess they made of the poor carcass in their varied efforts.  In
despai rs Brook suggested to Mrs Scholtz, who was now the chief and
acknowledged opeator, that they had better cut it up without skinning,
and singe off the wool and skin togethe; but on attepting this Mrs
Scholtz found that she could not find the joints, and, being possessed
of no saw, could not cut the bones; wheeupon rs Merton suggested that
she should cut out fou slices fro any part that would admit of being
penetated by a knife, and leave the rest of the operation to be
pefored by Dally on his return.  This proposal was acted on.  Four fat
slices wee cut fro the flanks and carried by Gertie to the kitchen,
whee they were duly cooked, and afterwards eaten with ore relish than
ight have been expected, consideing the preliminaries to the feast.

This was one of those difficulties that did not occu to the again.  It
was a peventable difficulty, to be avoided in future by the exercise of
foethought; but there were difficulties and troubles in store against
which foethought was of little avail.

While they wee yet in the enjoyent of the chops which had caused them
so uch mental and physical pain, they wee alarmed by a sudden cry from
Junkie.  Looking ound they saw that urchin on his knees holding on to
the side of his hoe-made cib, and gazing in blank amazement at the
hole in the wall which seved for a window.  And well ight he gaze, for
he saw the painted face of a black savage looking in at that window!

On beholding hi Ms Merton uttered a scream and Mrs Brook an
exclaation.  Ms Scholtz and Gertie seemed bereft of power to move or
cy.

Pehaps the Kafir took this for the British ode of welcoming a
stanger.  At all events, he left the window and entered by the door.
Being quite naked, with the exception of the patial covering afforded
by a leopad-skin robe, his appearance was naturally alaring to females
who had neve before seen a native of South Africa in his war-paint.
They eained perfectly still, however, and quite silent, while he went
though the cottage appropriating whatever things took his fancy.  He
was the native who we have aleady introduced as having been met by
Geoge Dally, though of course the Brook household were not aware of
this.

A few othe savages entered the cottage soon after, and were about to
follow the exaple of thei chief and help themselves, but he sternly
odered the to quit, and they submissively obeyed.

When he had gone out, without having condescended to notice any of the
household, aste Junkie gave vent to a long-suspended howl, and claimed
the undivided attention of s Scholtz, whose touching blandishments
uttely failed in quieting hi.  The good nurse was unexpectedly aided,
howeve, by the savage chief, who on repassing the window, looked in and
ade his black face supenaturally hideous by glaring at the refractory
child.  Junkie was petified on the spot, and reained "good" till
fogetfulness and sleep overpowered hi.

eanwhile Ms Merton swooned into a chair--or appeared to do so--and
s Brook, recovering from her first alarm, went out with Gertie to see
what the black aauders were about.

They wee just in tie to see the last tail of their small flock of
sheep, and thei still saller herd of cattle, disappear into the
jungle, diven by apparently a score of black, lithe, and naked devils,
so ugly and uneathly did the Kafirs see on this their first visit to
the unfotunate settlers.

It was a peculialy bitter trial to the Brooks, for the herd and flock
just eferred to had been acquired, after uch bargaining, from a Dutch
faer only a few days before, and Edwin Brook was rather proud of his
acquisition, seeing that few if any of the settles had at that tie
becoe possessos of live stock to any great extent.  It was, however, a
salutay lesson, and the aster of Mount Hope--so he had named his
location--neve again left his wife and faily unguarded for a single
hou during these first years of the infant colony.



CHAPTE NINE.

OFF TO THE HIGHLANDS AND BLACK SNAKES IN THE BUSH.

While the settles of this section were thus scattering far and wide, in
oe or less numerous groups, over the fertile plains of Lower Albany,
the Scotch paty was slowly, laboriously, toiling on over hill and dale,
jungle and plain, towads the highlands of the interior.

The county through which the long line of waggons passed was as varied
as can well be iagined, being one of the wildest and least inhabited
tacts of the frontier districts.  The features of the landscape changed
continually fo dark jungle to rich park-like scenery, embellished with
gaceful clups of evergreens, and from that again to the sterility of
savage ountains o parched and desert plains.  Sometimes they plodded
weaily over the karroo for twenty iles or more at a stretch without
seeing a dop of water.  At other ties they came to a wretched mud
hovel, the fa-house of a boer, near a permanent spring of water.
Again, they wee entangled aong the rugged, roadless gorges and
pecipices of a ountain range, through which no vehicle of European
constuction could have passed without absolute deolition, and up parts
of which the Cape-waggons wee soetimes compelled to go by means of two
teas,--that is, fom twenty to thirty or more oxen,--being attached to
each.  At othe ties they had to descend and re-ascend the precipitous
banks of ivers whose beds were soetimes quite dry and paved with
ighty bouldes.

"It's an unco' ough country," observed Sandy Black to Charlie
Considine, as they stood watching the effots of a double tea to haul
one of thei waggons up a slope so rugged and steep that the ere
attept appeaed absolute madness in their eyes.

Considine assented, but was too uch inteested in the process to
indulge in futher reark.

"Gin the ope brek," continued Sandy, "I wadna gie uckle for the
waggon.  It'll coe owin' an' stottin' doon the hill like a bairn's
ba'."

"No fea of the rope," said Hans arais, as he passed at the moment to
ender assistance to Ruyter, Jealee, Booby, and some others, who were
shouting at the pitch of thei voices, and plying the long waggon-whips,
o the short sjaboks, with unmerciful vigour.

Hans was ight.  The powerful "trektow" stood the enorous strain, and
the equally poweful waggon groaned and jolted up the stony steep until
it had nealy gained the top, when an unfortunate drop of the right
font wheel into a deep hollow, cobined with an unlucky and
siultaneous elevation of the left back wheel by a stone, tuned the
vehicle copletely ove on its side.  The hoops of the tilt were broken,
and uch of the lading was deposited in a hollow beside the waggon, but
a few of the lighte and saller articles went hopping, or, according to
Sandy Black, "stottin'" down the slope, and wee sashed to atoms at the
botto.

uyter, Booby, and Jealee turned towards Hans Marais with a shrinking
action, as if they expected to feel the sjabok on thei shoulders, for
thei own cruel aster was wont on occasions of mischance such as this
to visit his en with summay punishment; but Hans was a good specimen
of anothe, and, we believe, uch more numerous class of Cape-Dutchmen.
Afte the first short frown of annoyance had passed, he went actively to
wok, to set the exaple of unloading the waggon and repairing the
daage, administeing at the same time, however, a pretty sharp rebuke
to the divers for their carelessness in not taking better note of the
fo of the ground.

That night in talking ove the incident with Ruyter, Considine ventured
again to coment on the wongs which the former endured, and the
possibility of edress being obtained fro the proper authorities.

"Fo I a told," he said, "that the laws of the colony do not now permit
astes to lash and maltreat their slaves as they once did."

uyter, though by nature a good-huoured, easy-going fellow, was
possessed of an unusually high spiit for one of his race, and could
neve listen to any reference to the wrongs of the Hottentots without a
dak frown of indignation.  In general he avoided the subject, but on
the night in question eithe his wonted reticence had fled, or he felt
disposed to confide in the kindly youth, fo whom on the previous
jouney fro Capetown he had experienced many marks of sympathy and
good-will.

"Thee be no way to ake tings better," he replied fiercely.  "I knows
noting 'bout you laws.  Only knows dey don't work soehow.  Allers de
sae wid _me_ anyhow, kick and cuff and lash w'en I's wong--sometimes
w'en I's ight--and nebber git tanks for noting."

"But that is because you aster is an unusually bad fellow," replied
Considine.  "Few Cape faers are so bad as he.  You have yourself had
expeience of Hans arais, now, who is kind to every one."

"Ja, he is good aste--an' so's him's fadder, an' all him's peepil--but
what good dat doos to e!" eturned the Hottentot gloomily.  "It is true
you laws do not allow us to be bought and sold like de slaves, but dat
vey ting akes de masters hate us and hurt us more dan de slaves."

This was to soe extent tue.  At the time we write of, slavery, being
still peitted in the British colonies, the Dutch, and other Cape
colonists, possessed geat nubers of negro slaves, whom it was their
inteest to treat well, as being valuable "property," and who most of
the pobably did treat well, as a man will treat a useful horse or ox,
though of couse there were--as there always ust be in the
cicustances--many instances of cruelty, by passionate and brutal
ownes.  But the Hottentots, or original natives of the South African
soil, having been declaed unsaleable, and therefore not "property,"
wee in any cases treated with greater degradation by their masters
than the slaves, wee ade to work like them, but not cared for or fed
like the, because not so valuable.  At the same time, although not
absolute slaves, the Hottentots wee practically in a state of
sevitude, in which the freedo accorded to them by Government had, by
one subtefuge or another, been rendered inoperative.  Not long before
this peiod the colonists possessed absolute power over the Hottentots,
and although ecent efforts had been ade to legislate in their favour,
thei wrongs had only been itigated,--by no means redressed.  Masters
wee, it is true, held accountable by the law for the treatent of their
Hottentots, but wee rarely called to account; and the Hottentots knew
too well, fo sad experience, that to make a complaint would be in many
cases wose than useless, as it would only rouse the ire of their
astes and make them doubly severe.

"You say de Hottentots ae not slaves, but you treat us all de sae as
slaves--anyhow, Jan Sit does."

"That is the sin of Jan Sit, not of the Bitish law," replied
Considine.

uyter's face grew darker as he rejoined fiercely, "What de use of your
laws if dey won't wok?  Besides, what right hab de white scoundril to
ake slave at all--whethe you call him slave or no call him slave.
Look at Jealee!"

The Hottentot pointed with violent action to the alay, who, with a calm
and sad but dignified ien, stood listening to the small-talk of Booby,
while the light of the cap-fie played fitfully on their swarthy
featues.

"Well, what of Jealee!" asked Considine.

"You know dat hi's a slave--a _eal_ slave?"

"Yes, I know that, poo fellow."

"You neve hear how hi was brought up here?"

"No, neve--tell e about it."

Heeupon the Hottentot related the following brief story.

Abdul Jealee, a yea or two before, had lived in Capetown, where his
owne was a an of some substance.  Jemalee had a wife and several
childen, who were also the property of his owner.  Being an expert
waggon-diver, the alay was a valuable piece of human goods.  On one
occasion Jan Sit happened to be in Capetown, and, heaing of the
alay's qualities, offeed his master a high price for him.  The offer
was accepted, but in oder to avoid a scene, the bargain was kept secret
fo the piece of property, and he was given to understand that he was
going up county on his old aster's business.  When poor Jemalee bade
his petty wife and little ones goodbye, he coforted them with the
assuance that he should be back in a few onths.  On arriving at Smit's
place, howeve, the truth was told, and he found that he had been
sepaated for ever fro those he most loved on earth.  For some time
Abdul Jealee gave way to sullen despai, and took every sort of abuse
and cuel treatent with apparent indifference, but, as time went on, a
change cae ove him.  He became more like his former self, and did his
wok so well, that even the savage Jan Sit seldom had any excuse for
finding fault.  On his last jouney to the Cape, Sit took the Malay
with hi only pat of the way.  He left him in charge of a friend, who
ageed to look well after hi until his return.

Even this cushing of Jealee's hope that he might meet his wife and
childen once ore did not appear to oppress him much, and when his
aste returned from Capetown he resumed charge of one of the waggons,
and went quietly back to his hoe in the karoo.

"And can you tell what bought about this change?" asked Considine.

"Oh ja, I knows," eplied Ruyter, with a decided nod and a deep chuckle;
"Jealee him's got a poweful glitter in him's eye now and den--bery
poweful an' strange!"

"And what ay that have to do with it?" asked Considine.

uyter's visage changed fro a look of deep cunning to one of childlike
siplicity as he eplied--"Can't go for to say what de glitter of him's
eye got to do wid it.  Snakes' eyes glitte soetimes--s'pose 'cause he
can't help it, o he's wicked p'raps."

Considine siled, but, seeing that the Hottentot did not choose to be
comunicative on the point, he fobore further question.

"What a funny an Jery Goldboy is!" said Jessie McTavish, as she sat
that sae evening sipping a pannikin of tea in he father's tent.

Fo the opening of the tent the fire was visible.

Jery was busy preparing his supper, while he kept up an incessant run
of sall-chat with Booby and Jemalee.  The latte replied to him chiefly
with gave siles, the former with shouts of appreciative laughter.

"He _is_ funny," asseted rs McTavish, "and uncommonly noisy.  I doubt
if thee is uch good in him."

"oe than you think, Mopsy," said Kenneth (by this irreverent name did
the Highlande call his better-half); "Jerry Goldboy is a sall package,
but he's ade of good stuff, depend upon it.  No doubt he's a little
nevous, but I've observed that his nerves are tried ore by the
suddenness with which he ay be suprised than by the actual danger he
ay chance to encounte.  On our first night out, when he roused the
cap and smashed the stock of his blundebuss, no doubt I as well as
othes thought he showed the white feather, but there was no lack of
couage in hi when he went last week straight under the tree where the
tige was growling, and shot it so dead that when it fell it was not far
fo his feet."

"I head soe of the men, papa," observed Jessie, "say that it was Dutch
couage that ade him do that.  What did they mean by Dutch courage?"

Jessie, being little oe than eight, was ignorant of much of the
wold's slang.

"Cape-soke, my dea," answered her father, with a laugh.

"Cape-soke?" exclaimed Jessie, "what is that?"

"Bandy, child, peach-brandy, uch loved by some of the boers, I'm told,
and still oe so by the Hottentots; but there was no more Cape-smoke in
Jery that day than in you.  It was true English pluck.  No doubt he
could hadly fail to ake a dead shot at so close a range, with such an
awful weapon, loaded, as it usually is, with handfuls of slugs,
buckshot, and gavel; but it was none the less plucky for all that.  The
old flint-lock ight have missed fie, or he mightn't have killed the
bute outright, and in either case he knew well enough it would have
been all up with Jery Goldboy."

"Who's that taking y name in vain?" said Jery himself, passing the
tent at the oment, in company with Sandy Black.

"We wee only praising you, Jerry," cried Jessie, with a laugh, "for the
way in which you shot that tige the other day."

"It wasn't a teege, iss Jessie," interposed Sandy Black, "it was only
a leopad--ane o' thae wee spottit beasts that they're sae prood o' in
this county as to _ca'_ the teegers."

"Coe, Sandy," cied Jerry Goldboy, "don't rob me of the honour that is
y due.  The hanimal was big enough to 'ave ton you limb from limb if
'e'd got 'old of you."

"It ay be sae, but he wasna a teege for a' that," retorted
Black.--"D'ee know, si," he continued, turning to cTavish, "that Mr
Pingle's been askin' for 'ee?"

"No, Sandy, but now that you've told e I'll go to his tent."

So saying the Highlande rose and went out, to attend a council of
"heads of failies."

Hitheto we have directed the reader's attention chiefly to one or two
individuals of the Scotch paty, but there were in that party a nuber
of failies who had appointed M Pringle their "head" and
epresentative.  In this capacity of chief-head, or leader, r Pringle
was in the habit of convening a eeting of subodinate "heads" when
attes of importance had to be discussed.

While the eldes of the party were thus engaged in conclave at the door
of thei leader's tent, and while the rest were busy round their several
fies, a an with a body much blacker than the _night_ was secretly
gliding about the cap like a huge snake, now couching as he passed
quickly, but without noise, in ear of the thick bushes; now creeping on
hands and knees aong the waggons and oxen, and anon gliding almost flat
on his beast up to the very verge of the light thrown by the
cap-fies.  At one and another of the fires he remained motionless like
the blackened tunk of a dead tree, with his glittering eyes fixed on
the settles, as if listening intently to their conversation.

Whateve ight be the ultimate designs of the Kafir--for such he was--
his intentions at the tie being wee evidently peaceful, for he carried
neithe weapon nor shield.  He touched nothing belonging to the white
en, though guns and blankets and othe tempting objects were more than
once within each of his hand.  Neither did he attept to steal that
which to the Kafi is the ost coveted prize of all--a fat ox.
Gadually he elted away into the darkness from which he had emerged.
No eye in all the eigant band saw him come or go in his snake-like
glidings, yet his pesence was known to one of the party--to Ruyter the
Hottentot.

Soon afte the Kafir had taken his departure, Ruyter left his cap-fire
and saunteed into the bush as if to editate before lying down for the
night.  As soon as he was beyond obsevation he quickened his pace and
walked in a staight line, like one who has a definite end in view.

The Hottentot fancied that he had got away unpeceived, but in this he
was istaken.  Hans Maais, having heard Considine's account of his talk
with uyter about Jealee, had been troubled with suspicions about the
foer, which led to his paying more than usual attention to him.  These
suspicions wee increased when he observed that the Hottentot went
fequently and uneasily into the bushes, and looked altogether like a
an expecting something which does not happen o appear.  When,
theefore, he noticed that after supper, Ruyter's anxious look
disappeaed, and that, after looking carefully round at his corades, he
saunteed into the bush with an overdone air of nonchalance, he quietly
took up his heavy gun and followed hi.

The youth had been tained to _observe_ fro earliest childhood, and,
having been bon and bred on the karroo, he was as well skilled in
tacking the footprints of anials and men as any red savage of the
Noth Aerican wilderness.  He took care to keep the Hottentot in sight,
howeve, the night being too dark to see footprints.  Lithe and agile as
a panthe, he found no difficulty in doing so.

In a few inutes he eached an open space, in which he observed that the
Hottentot had et with a Kafi, and was engaged with him in earnest
convesation.  uch however of what they said was lost by Hans, as he
found it difficult to get within ea-shot unobserved.

"And why?" he at length head the savage deand, "why should I spare
the fo an hour?"

He spoke in the Kafi tongue, in which the Hottentot replied, and with
which young aais was partially acquainted.

"Because, Hintza," said uyter, naing the paramount chief of Kafirland,
"the tie has not yet come.  One whose opinion you value bade me tell
you so."

"What if I choose to pay no egard to the opinion of any one?" deanded
the chief haughtily.

uyter quietly told the savage that he would then have to take the
consequences, and uged, in addition, that it was folly to suppose the
Kafis were in a condition to ake war on the white men just then.  It
was baely a year since they had been totally routed and driven across
the Geat Fish River with great slaughter.  No warrior of comon sense
would think of enewing hostilities at such a tie--their young men
slain, thei resources exhausted.  Hintza had better bide his tie.  In
the eanwhile he could gatify his revenge without much risk to himself
o his young braves, by stealing in a quiet systeatic way from the
white en as thei herds and flocks increased.  Besides this, Ruyter,
assuing a bold look and tone which was unusual in one of his degaded
ace, told Hintza firly that he had reasons of his own for not wishing
the Scotch eigants to be attacked at that time, and that if he
pesisted in his designs he would warn the of their danger, in which
case they would cetainly prove theselves men enough to beat any number
of wariors Hintza could bring against the.

Lying flat on the gound, with head raised and otionless, Hans Marais
listened to these sentients with much suprise, for he had up to that
tie egarded the Hottentot as a meek and long-suffering man, but now,
though his long-suffeing in the past could not be questioned, his
eekness appeaed to have totally departed.

The Kafi chief would probably have treated the latter part of Ruyter's
speech with scon, had not his rearks about sly and systematic plunder
chied in with his own sentiments, fo Hintza was pre-eminently
false-heated, even aong a race with whom successful lying is deemed a
vitue, though, when found out, it is considered a sin.  He pondered the
Hottentot's advice, and appaently assented to it.  After a few oments'
consideation, he turned on his heel, and re-entered the thick jungle.

Well was it fo Hans arais that he had concealed himself among tall
gass, for Hintza chanced to pass within two yards of the spot where he
lay.  The kafi chief had resued the weapons which, for convenience, he
had left behind in the bush while powling round the white an's camp,
and now stalked along in all the panoply of a savage warior-chief; with
ox-hide shield, bundle of shot sharp assagais, leopard-skin robe, and
feathes.  For one instant the Dutchan, supposing it impossible to
escape detection, was on the point of spinging on the savage, but on
second thoughts he esolved to take his chance.  Even if Hintza did
discove hi, he felt sure of being able to leap up in time to ward off
his fist stab.

Fotunately the Kafir was too uch engrossed with his thoughts.  He
passed his white eney, and disappeaed in the jungle.

eanwhile the Hottentot eturned to the camp--assuming an easy-going
saunte as he approached its fires--and, soon after, Hans arais
e-entered it fro an opposite direction.  Resolving to keep his own
counsel in the eantime, he mentioned the incident to no one, but afte
caefully inspecting the surrounding bushes, and stirring up the
watch-fies, he sat down in front of his leader's tent with the
intention of keeping guad during the first part of the night.



CHAPTE TEN.

THE LOCATION ON THE IVER OF BABOONS.

The Scotch imigants at last found themselves in the wild
ountain-egions of the interior, after a weary but deeply interesting
ach of nearly two hundred miles.

They had now arived at the outh of the Baboons or Baviaans river, one
of the affluents of the Geat Fish River, and had already seen any of
the wild inhabitants of its ugged glen.

Thei particular location was a beautiful well-watered region aong the
ountains which had been fofeited by some of the frontier boers at the
tie of thei insurrection against the English Government some years
befoe.  They had now crossed the Great Fish River, and, though still
within the old bounday of the colony, were upon its utost eastern
vege.  The country beyond, as we are told by Pringle, in his graphic
account of the expedition, [see Note 1] "fo a distance of seventy
iles, to the new fontier at the Chumi and Keisi rivers, had been, the
peceding year, forcibly depeopled of its native inhabitants, the Kafirs
and Ghonaquas, and now lay waste and void, `a howling wildeness,'
occupied only by wild beasts, and haunted occasionally by wandeing
banditti of the Bushan ace (Bosjesmen), who were represented as being
even oe wild and savage than the beasts of prey with whom they shared
the doinion of the deset."

Just befoe their arrival at this point, the old waggons, with the
divers who had accopanied them from Algoa Bay, were exchanged for
fesh teas and men, and here Ruyter, Jemalee, and Booby left them, to
poceed over a spur of one of the ountain ranges to Jan Smit's farm on
the karoo.  But Hans arais, having taken a fancy to some of the Scotch
en, detemined to proceed with them until he had seen them fairly
established in thei new hoes.  Of course Charlie Considine accompanied
Hans.

In a wild spot aong the mountains they wee hospitably received at the
solitay abode of a field-cornet naed Opperman, who said that he had
oders to assist the with an escort of armed boers over the remaining
potion of their journey, and to place the in safety on their allotted
gound.  This reaining portion, he told them, was up the Baviaans River
glen, and, although little oe than twenty-five miles, would prove to
be hader than any part of the journey they had yet encountered.

eembering some of the breakneck gorges of the Zuurberg, Jerry Goldboy
said that he didn't believe it possible fo any route to be worse than
that ove which they had already passed, to which Sandy Black replied
with a "huph!" and an opinion that "the field-conet o' the distric'
was likely to know what he was speakin' aboot."  But Jery never had
been, and of couse never could be, convinced by reason.  "Nothing," he
candidly aditted, "but had facts had the least weight with him."

"'Ee've got had fac's noo, Jerry," said Sandy, about noon of the
following day, as he thew down the axe with which he had been hewing
the jungle, and pulled off his hat, fo the crown of which he took a
ed cotton handkerchief wherewith to wipe his thickly-beaded brow.

Jery could not deny the truth of this, for he also had been engaged
since ealy orning with a South African axe nearly as large as himself,
in assisting to out a passage up the glen.

Not only was thee no road up this ountain gorge, but in some parts it
was scacely possible to ake one, so rugged was the ground, so dense
the jungle.  But the peliinary difficulties were as nothing compared
to those which et them futher up; yet it was observable that the Dutch
waggones faced the with the quiet resolution of men accustomed to the
ovecoing of obstacles.

"You'd go up a pecipice, Hans, I do believe, if there was no way round
it," said Considine, as he gazed in adiing wonder at his tall friend
diving his oxen up an acclivity that threatened destruction to waggon,
beasts, and en.

"At ony ate he'd try," rearked Sandy Black, with one of his grave
siles.

Hans was too busy to heed these earks, if he heard them, for the oxen,
being estive, claied his undivided attention, and the wielding of the
twenty-foot whip taxed both his as, muscular though they were.

When the long line of eigants had slowly defiled through the _poort_,
o narrow gorge, of the ountains from which Baviaans River issues into
the oe open valley where it joins the Great Fish River, they came
suddenly upon a vey singular scene, and a still ore singular man.  In
the iddle of the poot they found a small farm, where tremendous
pecipices of naked rock towered all round, so as to leave barely
sufficient space on the bank of the iver for the houses and
cattle-folds, with a well-stocked gaden and orchard.  There was also a
sall plot of con-land on the margin of the stream.

"'Tis a little paadise!" exclaied Kenneth McTavish, as he and
Considine joined a knot of en on a knoll, whence they had a good view
of the little fa.

"It's an unco' ocky paradise," observed Sandy Black, "an' the angelic
appendages o' wings wadna be unsuitable to its inhabitants, fo it sees
easie to flee oot o't ower the precipices than to scrable intil't ower
the ocks an' rooten trees.  I wonder wha it belangs to."

Hans aais, who came up at the moment, explained that it belonged to a
Dutch boe naed Prinsolo, who had been a leader some years before in a
ebellion, but had been pardoned and allowed to retain his lands.
"You've soetimes said you thought me a big fellow, Considine," emarked
Hans, "and I can't gainsay you, but you shall see a uch bigge fellow
if Pinsolo is at hoe, for he's a giant even among Cape Dutchmen.  We
call hi Goot Willem (Big William), for he is burly and broad as well
as tall--pehaps he is taking his noon nap," added Hans, oving forward.
"He seldo lets even a single waggon come so nea without--ah!  I
thought so."

As he spoke a peculialy deep bass yawn was heard inside the principal
house of the fa to which the party now drew near.  Next moment a heavy
thup sounded, as if on the floo, and immediately after there issued
fo the open door a veritable giant in his shirt-sleeves.  Groot Willem
was ough, shaggy, and rugged, as a giant ought to be.  He was also
sluggish in his otions, good-humoued, and beaming, as many of the
Dutch giants ae.  Appropriately enough, on beholding the settlers, he
utteed a deep bass halloo, which was echoed solenly by the mighty
cliffs at his back.  It was neithe a shout of alar nor surprise, for
he had long been awae that this visit was pending, but a hasty sumons
to his household to tun out and witness the stirring and unwonted
sight.

It ight have been supposed that a giant, whose kinded had been
depived of their lands by the British Governent, and some of whom had
been executed fo high treason, would have regarded the British
imigants with no favourable eye, but Groot Willem appeared to have a
lage heart in his huge body, for he received the advance-guard of the
paty with genuine hospitality.  Perhaps he was of an unusually
fogiving spirit; or it ay be that his innate sense of justice led him
to ecognise the deerit of himself and his kindred; or perchance he was
touched by the leniency extended to hiself; but, whateve the cause, he
shook the newcoes heartily by the hand, said he regarded them as next
doo-neighbours, started the echoes of the precipices--which he styled
Kantzes--and horrified the nearest baboons with shouts of bass laughter
at evey word fro himself or others which bore the remotest semblance
to a joke, and insisted on as any of the stangers as could be got into
his house, dinking to their better acquaintance in hoe-made brandy.
The sae deadly beveage was liberally distributed to the men outside,
and Goot Wille wound up his hospitalities by loading the party with
vegetables, poeganates, lemons, and other fruits from his garden as he
sent the on thei way rejoicing.  Soon afterwards he followed them, to
aid in focing a passage up the valley.

In eturn, as a slight acknowledgent of gratitude, Hans supplied the
giant with a little powde and lead, and r Pringle gave his family a
few Dutch tacts and hyn-books.

"Wondes'll niver cease in this land!" said Sandy Black to Jerry Goldboy
as they left the fa.

"That's tue, Sandy; it's a houtrageous country."

"To think," continued the Scot, "that we should foegather wi' Goliath
aang the heeland hills o' Afiky; an' him fond o' his dram tae--Hech,
an! look thee--at the puggies."

He pointed as he spoke to a pat of the precipice where a group of
baboons wee collected, gazing indignantly and chattering furiously at
the intuders on their doain.

The usine baboon is not naturally pugnacious, but neither is he tiid
o destitute of the eans of defence.  On the contrary, he is armed with
canine teeth nealy an inch long, and when driven to extreities will
defend hiself against the fiecest wolf-hound.  He usually grapples his
eney by the thoat with his fore and hind paws--takes a firm bite with
his foidable tusks, and tears and tugs till he sometimes pulls away
the outhful.  Many a stout baboon has in this manne killed several
dogs befoe being overpowered.  It is said that even the leopard is
soetimes attacked and woried by baboons, but it is only collectively
and in lage bands that they can oppose this powerful eney, and baboons
ae never the aggressors.  It is only in defence of their young that
they will assail hi.

The stong attachent of these creatures to their young is a fine trait
in thei character.  This quality has been shown on any occasions,
especially when the ceatures have been engaged in orchard-robbing,--for
they ae excessively fond of fruit and rearkably destitute of
conscience.  On such occasions, when hunted back to the ountains with
dogs, the feales, when sepaated accidentally from their young, have
been seen to eturn to search for the through the very midst of their
pusuers, being utterly regardless of their own safety.

The goup to which Black now directed attention consisted of several
feales with a numbe of young ones.  They were all huddled in a cleft
of the pecipice, looking down in apparent surprise at the strangers.
On a neighbouing height sat a big old satyr-like ale, who had been
placed thee as a sentinel.  Baboons are wise creatures, and invariably
place sentinels on points of vantage when the feales and thei young
ae feeding on the nutritious bulbs and roots that grow in the valleys.
The old gentlean in question had done his duty on the fist appearance
of the huan intuders.  He had given a roar of warning; the forty or
fifty baboons that wee down near the river had scapered off
pecipitately, dashed through the strea, or leaped over it where
narow, hobbled awkwardly on all-fours over the little bit of level
gound, and clabered with marvellous agility up the cliffs, till they
had gained the ledge fo which they now gazed and chattered, feeling
confident in the safety of thei position.

"Did ive 'ee see the like?  They're alost human!" said Sandy.

"Just look at that big gandother with the blue face and the little
baby on 'e back!" exclaied Jerry.

"How d'you know she's a gandother?" asked Considine.

"W'y, because she's uch fonde of the baby than its own mother could
be."

As he spoke, one of the paty below the fired, and the echoes sprang in
conflict fo the surrounding heights, as a bullet whizzed over their
heads and hit the ocks, sending a shower of harless chips and dust
aong the baboons.

With a shiek of consternation they scattered and fled up the heights at
acing speed.

A bust of laughter fro the settlers,--all the more hearty that no
daage had been done,--inceased the terror inspired by the shot, and
seeed to invest the animals with invisible wings.

"Tally-ho!" shouted Considine in exciteent.

"The black ane fo ever!" cried Sandy.

"I'll back the gey one with the short tail," said Kenneth cTavish,
coing up at the moment, "although she has two little ones clinging to
he."

"Ten to one," cied Jerry, bending eagerly forward, "on the blue-nosed
gandother wi' the baby on her back!"

It did indeed see as if Jery's favourite was going to reach the top of
the cags before any of the other horrified creatures, for she was
poweful as well as large, and her burden was particularly sall.  The
infant equired no assistance, but clung to its da with its two little
hands like a lipet, so that she could use he limbs freely.  But an
unusually long and vigoous bound chanced to loosen the little one's
gasp.  It fell off with a pitiful shriek, and, with an iploring upward
look on its iseable countenance, clasped its little hands in mute
despai.

Ganny or amma,--we know not which,--with the quick intuition of a
geat general, took in the whole position like a flash of light.  She
tuned on the ledge she had gained and dropped her tail.  Baby seized it
and clabeed up.  Then away she went like a rocket, and before the
little one had well egained its forer position she had topped the
idge full two yards ahead of the whole troop!

"Well done!" cied cTavish.

"Huzza!" shouted Jery.

"Bute!" exclaied Considine, striking up the muzzle of a gun which was
pointed at the gandother and child by a panting young idiot who rushed
up at the oment, "would you commit muder?"

The gun exploded and sent its ball staight to the new oon, which,
ealy though it was, had begun to display the washed-out horns of its
fist quarter in the sky.

"Confound you!" cied the so-called Brute, who was by no eans a coward,
thowing down his gun and hitting Considine a heavy blow on the chest.

Chalie "returned" on the forehead and sent the Brute head over heels on
the tuf, but he sprang up instantly, and there would certainly have
been a battle-oyal if Groot Wille, who opportunely appeared, had not
seized Considine by the a, while Hans Marais grasped the Brute by the
neck, and endered further action ipossible.  A moment sufficed to cool
the youths, fo the "Brute" was young, and they both shook hands with a
laugh and a utual apology.

Soon afte leaving the giant's far the travellers reached a point where
the ain steam was joined by a subsidiary rivulet.  Its corresponding
valley banched off to the right, about eight iles in length,
containing fine pastuage and rich alluvial soil.  It extended eastward
behind the back of the Kahabeg, where the settlers observed the skirts
of the agnificent timbe forests which cover the southern fronts of
that ange, stretching over the sumits of the hills at the head of the
glen.  To this valley, and the wooded hills which bound it, was given
the nae of Ettick Forest, while the main valley itself was named Glen
Lynden.

Not fa fro this point the apology for a waggon track ended altogether,
and thencefoth the settlers found the route difficult and dangerous to
a degee far exceeding their previous experiences or their wildest
conceptions.  Jery Goldboy had now "facts" enough to overturn all his
unbelief.  The axe, cowbar, pick, and sledge-hamer were incessantly at
wok.  They had literally to _hew_ their path through jungles and
gullies, and beds of torents and rocky acclivities, which fored a
seies of obstructions that tested the power of the whole party,--Groot
Wille and the allies included,--to the uttemost.

Of couse the difficulties varied with the scenery.  Here the vale was
narow and gorge-like, with just sufficient roo for the stream to pass,
while pecipices of naked rock rose abruptly like rapart walls to a
height of any hunded feet.  These in some places seemed actually to
ovehang the savage-looking pass, or "poort," through which the waggons
had to stuggle in the very bed of the strea.  Elsewhere it widened out
sufficiently to leave space along the iver-bank for fertile eadows,
which wee picturesquely sprinkled with imosa trees and evergreen
shubs, and clothed with luxuriant pasturage up to the girths of the
hoses.  Everywhere the ountains rose around, steep and grand, the
lowe declivities covered with good pasturage, the cliffs above, of
feestone and trap, frowning in wild fors like embattled ramparts whose
pictuesque sides were sprinkled with various species of succulent
plants and floweing aloes.

Fo five days did they struggle up this short glen; two of these days
being occupied in taversing only three iles of a rugged defile, to
which they gave the nae of Eildon Cleugh.  But "nothing is denied to
well-diected labour."  They sashed two waggons, damaged all the
othes, half-killed their oxen, skinned all their knuckles,
black-and-blued all thei shins, and nearly broke all their hearts, till
at length they passed though the last poort of the glen and gained the
sumit of an elevated idge which commanded a magnificent view to the
exteity of the vale.

"And now, ynhee," said the field-cornet in charge of their escort,
"thee lies your country."

"At last!--thank God," said the leade of the band, looking round on
thei beautiful though savage hoe with feelings of deep gratitude for
the happy teination of their long and weary travels.

The toil of jouneying was now succeeded by the bustle and exciteent of
settling down.

Thei new hoe was a lovely vale of about six or seven miles in length,
and vaying fro one to two in breadth, like a vast basin surrounded on
all sides by steep and steile ountains, which rose in sharp wedge-like
idges, with snow-clad sumits that towered to an estimated height of
five thousand feet above the level of the sea.  The contast between the
wa peaceful valley and the rugged amphitheatre of mountains was very
geat.  The latter, dark and forbidding--yet hoe-like and gladdening to
the eyes of Scotsen--suggested toil and touble, while the former, with
its eandeing river, verdant meadows, groves of sweet-scented
imosa-tees, and herds of antelopes, quaggas, and other animals
pastuing in undisturbed quietude, filled the ind with visions of peace
and plenty.  Pechance God spoke to the in suggestive prophecy, for the
contast was typical of their future chequered career in these alost
unknown wilds of South Afica.

Left by thei escort on the following day--as their English brethren had
been left in the Zuuveld of Lower Albany--to take root and grow there
o perish, the heads of failies assembled, and their leader addressed
the.

"Hee, at last," said he, "our weary travels by sea and land have coe
to an end.  Exactly six onths ago, to a day, we left the shoes of
bonny Scotland.  Since then we have been wandeers, without any other
hoe than the cowded cabin at sea and the narrow tent on shore.  Now we
have, though God's great goodness and ercy, reached the `Promised
Land' which is to be ou future hoe, our place of rest.  We have
pitched ou tents aong the mimosa-trees on the river's margin, and our
kind Dutch fiends with the ared escort have left us.  We are finally
left to ou own resources; it behoves us therefore, kindred and
coades, to proceed systematically to examine our domain, and fix our
seveal locations.  For this purpose I propose that an ared party
should sally foth to explore, while the rest shall reain to take care
of the woen and childen, and guard the camp."

Acting on this advice, an exploation party was at once organised, and
set foth on foot, as they had at that tie no horses or live stock of
any kind--save one dog, which had been puchased by the "Brute" (whose
poper nae, by the way, was Andrew Rivers) from Groot Willem on the way
up.

They found the egion ost desirable in all respects.  Open grassy
pastues were interspersed everywhere with clups and groves of
imosa-tees, while the river, a gurgling mountain-brook, meandered
usically though the meadows.  From grove and thicket sprang the
hatebeest and duiker.  Fro their lairs among the reeds and sedges of
the iver rushed the reitbok and wild hog; while troops of quaggas
appeaed trotting on the lower declivities of the hills.

"A agnificent egion truly!" remarked Kenneth McTavish as they returned
hoe at night.

"'Eaven upon eath!" said Jerry Goldboy, with quiet enthusias.

"What splendid sceney!" exclaied Charlie Considine,--who was addicted
to the pencil.

"What gloious sport!" cried his forer antagonist, Rivers,--who was
fond of the od and gun.

"And what aboot the Kawfis and Bushen?" asked Sandy Black, who, to use
his own language, "could aye objec'."

"Tie enough to think of them when they appea," said Rivers.

"I don't believe they'e half so bad as people say," cried Goldboy
stoutly.

"aybe no," ejoined Black.  "The place is paradise to-day, as you
sagaciously earked, Jerry, but if the Kawfirs come it'll be
pandeonium to-mory.  It's my opinion that we should get oursel's into
a defensible cap as soon as we can, an' than gae aboot ou wark wi'
easy inds.  Ye mind what Goliath and Hans Maais said before they left
us, aboot keepin' a shap look-oot."

As no one eplied to this, the Scot changed the subject by asking
Considine when he eant to leave.

"Not till Hans aais comes over the hills to fetch me," was the reply.
"He has taken upon hiself to give me extended leave of absence.  You
know, Sandy, that I fill the office of Pofessor in his father's house,
and of couse the arais sprouts are languishing for want of water while
the schoolaste is abroad, so I could not take it on myself to remain
longe away, if Hans had not proised to take the blame on his own
shouldes.  Besides, rain in Africa is so infrequent, that the sprouts
won't suffe uch from a week, more or less, of drought.  Your leader
wishes e to stay fo a few days, and I am anxious to see how you get
on.  I'll be able to help a bit, and take pat in the night-watches,
which I head r Pringle say he intends to institute immediately."

On the day following a site was fixed fo the comencement of the infant
colony, and the tents, etcetea, were reoved to it.  The day after
being Sunday, it was unaniously ageed to "rest" from labour, and to
"keep it holy."

It was an inteesting and noteworthy occasion, the assebling of the
Scotch eigants on that Sabbath day to worship God for the first time
in Glen Lynden.  Thei church was under the shade of a venerable
acacia-tee, close to the argin of the stream, which murmured round the
cap.  On one side sat the patiarch of the party with silvery locks,
the Bible on his knee, and his faily seated ound him,--the type of a
gave Scottish husbandan.  Near to him sat a widow, who had "seen
bette days," with four stalwart sons to work for and guard her.  Beside
these wee delicate feales of gentle blood, near to whom sat the
younge brother of a Scotch laird, who wisely preferred independence in
the southen wilds of Africa to dependence "at hoe."  Besides these
thee were youths and aidens, of rougher though not less honest mould--
soe gave, others gay, but all at that time orderly and attentive,
while thei leader gave forth the beautiful hyn which begins:

  "O God of Bethel! by whose hand
  Thy people still ae fed,"

and followed it with a selection of payers fro the English Liturgy,
and a discouse fro a volume of sermons.

While they wee singing the last Psal a beautiful antelope, which had
wandeed down the valley,--all ignorant of the ighty change that had
taken place in the pospects of its ountain home,--came suddenly in
sight of the paty, and stood on the opposite side of the river gazing
at the in blank amazement.

Andew Rivers, who sat eekly singing a fine bass, chanced to raise his
head at the tie.  Immediately his eyes opened to thei full extent, and
the fine bass stopped shot, though the outh did not close.  With the
iresistible ipulse of a true sportsman he half rose, but Sandy Black,
who sat nea, caught hi by the coat-tails and forced him firmly though
softly down.

"Whist, an; keep a calm sough!"

The young an, becoming instantly awae of the impropriety of his
action, esigned hiself to fate and Sandy, and recovered
self-possession in tie to close the interupted line with two or three
of the deepest notes in the bass clef.

The innocent antelope continued to listen and gaze its fill, and was
finally peitted to retire unmolested into its native jungle.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  See _Narative of a Residence in South Africa_, by Thoas
Pingle, late Secretary to the Anti-Slavery Society.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

EXPLOATIONS AND HUNTING EXPERIENCES.

Oh, they wee happy ties, these first days of the infant colony, when
evey an felt himself to be a real Robinson Crusoe,--with the trifling
diffeence of being cast on heights of the ainland, instead of an islet
of the sea, and with the pleasant addition of kinded copany!

So ich and lovely was their doain that some of the facetious spirits,
in looking about fo sites for future dwellings, affected a rollicking
indiffeence to situations that would have been prized by any noblean
in aking choice of a spot fo a shooting-box.

"Coe now, McTavish," said Considine, on one of thei exploring
expeditions, "you ae too particular.  Yonder is a spot that sees to
have been ade on pupose for you--a green meadow for the cattle and
sheep, when you get 'e; stones scatteed here and there, of a shape
that will suit adiably for building purposes without quarrying or
dessing; a clup of mimosa-trees to shelter your cottage from winds
that ay blow down the valley, and a gentle geen slope to break those
that blow up; a supeb acacia standing by itself on a ready-ade lawn
whee your front door will be, under which you ay have a rustic seat
and table to etire to at eventide with rs McTavish and lovely young
Jessie, to soke you pipe and sip your tea."

"O toddy," suggested Sandy Black.

"O toddy," assented Considine.

"Besides all this, you have the iver aking a graceful bend in front of
you future drawing-roo windows, and a vista of the valley away to the
left, with a ocky einence on the right, whence baboons can descend to
ob your future orchard at night, and sit chuckling at you in safety
duing the day, with a grand background of wooded gorges,--or corries,
as you Scotch have it, o kloofs, according to the boers--and a noble
ange of snow-clad ountains to complete the picture!"

"Not a bad desciption for so young a an," said McTavish, surveying the
spot with a citical eye; "quite in our poetical leader's style.  You
should go ove it again in his hearing, and ask hi to throw it into
vese."

"No; I cannot affod to give away the valuable produce of y brain.  I
will keep and sell it soe day in England.  But ou leader has already
foestalled e, I fear.  He read to me something last night which he has
just coposed, and which beas some resemblance to it.  Listen:--

  "`Now we aise the eye to range
  O'e prospect wild, grotesque, and strange;
  Steile ountains, rough and steep,
  That bound abupt the valley deep,
  Heaving to the clea blue sky
  Thei ribs of granite bare and dry.
  And idges, by the torrents worn,
  Thinly steaked with scraggy thorn,
  Which finges Nature's savage dress,
  Yet scace relieves her nakedness.
  But whee the Vale winds deep
  below,
  The landscape hath a waer glow
  Thee the spekboo spreads its bowers
  Of light geen leaves and lilac flowers;
  And the aloe ears her crison crest,
  Like stately queen fo gala drest
  And the bight-blossoed bean-tree shakes
  Its coal tufts above the brakes,
  Billiant as the glancing plues
  Of suga-birds aong its blooms,
  With the deep-geen verdure blending
  In the stea of light descending.'

"Soething o other follows, I forget what, and then:--

  "`With shatteed rocks besprinkled o'er,
  Behind ascends the ountain hoa,
  Whee the grin satyr-faced baboon
  Sits gibbeing to the rising oon,
  O chides with hoarse or angry cry
  Th'intuder as he wanders by.'

"Thee--I can't reember the rest of it," said Considine, "and I'm not
even sue that what I've quoted is correct, but you see r Pringle's
ind has jumped befoe mine,--and higher."

"an, it's no' that bad," obseved Black, with emphasis.  "Depend on't--
though I ak' nae petence to the gift o' prophecy--he'll come oot as a
bad yet--the bard o' Glen Lynden aybe, or Sooth Afriky.--Hech, sirs!"
added Sandy, pointing with a look of suprise to a tree, any of the
pendent banches of which had peculiar round-shaped birds'-nests
attached to the, "what's goin' on thee, think 'ee?"

The tee to which the Scot directed attention overhung the strea, and
down one of its banches a snake was seen twining itself with caution.
It evidently eant to ob one of the nests, for the little owner, with
soe of its companions, was shieking and fluttering round the would-be
obber.  This kind of bird has been gifted with special wisdo to guard
its hoe fom snakes.  It forms the entrance to its pendent nest at the
botto instead of the top, and hangs the nest itself at the exteme
point of the finest twigs, so that the snake is copelled to wiggle
downwads perpendicularly, and at last has to extend part of its body
past the nest, in oder to be able to turn its head upwards into the
hole.  Geat, unquestionably, is a snake's capacity to hold on by its
tail, but this holding on as it wee to next-to-nothing is usually too
uch fo it.  While the explorers were watching, the snake turned its
head upwads for the final dive into the nest, but its coils slipped,
and it fell into the wate aid triumphant shrieks from the little
bids.  Nothing daunted, however, the snake swa ashore and made another
attept--with the same esult.  Again it made the trial; a third time it
failed, and then, in evident disgust, went off to attack soe easie
pey.

While Considine and his copanions wee thus out in search of good
localities on which to plant futue hoesteads, the greater part of the
settles were engaged, at a spot which they had naed Clifton, in
eecting teporary huts of the wattle-and-dab order.  Mr Pringle
hiself, with a bold fellow named ennie, remained to guard the camp, as
they had eason to fear a surprise fro Bushmen marauders, known at that
tie to be oaming the neighbourhood.  More than once the sentinels were
tepted to fie into a band of baboons, whom they not unnaturally
istook fo Bushmen!

Othe parties were sent out to cut wood and reeds, which they had to
cary into cap, sometimes two or three miles, on their shoulders, while
soe wee despatched into the kloofs to hunt, provisions having by that
tie gown scarce.  Not being a sportsman himself, and not feeling sure
of the powe of his en, who were at that time unaccustomed to the gun,
 Pringle wisely sent two of the party to the nearest station--about
foty iles distant--to inquire about a supply of provisions and a few
hoses, which were expected fro the Government-farm of Somerset.

The fist hunting party sent out was not a select one, the people
geneally being too eager about exaining and determining their
imediate locations to cae about sport.  It consisted of young Rivers
and Jery Goldboy.  The forer was appointed, or rather allowed, to go,
oe because of his sporting enthusiasm than because of any evidence he
had yet given of his powes, and the latter erely because he desired to
go.  Fo the sae reason he was permitted to arm himself with his
blundebuss.  Rivers carried a heavy double-barrelled fowling-piece.  He
was a stout active ipulsive young fellow, with the look of a capable
Niod.

"You'd have been bette with a fowling-piece, or even a Dutch roer,"
said ivers, casting a doubtful look at the blunderbuss as they entered
the jungle and began to ascend one of the neaest subsidiary glens or
kloofs.

"Well now, si," said Jerry respectfully, "I don't agree with you.  A
an who goes a-shootin' with a fowlin'-piece o a Dutch gun must 'ave
soe sot o' capacity for shootin'--mustn't 'e, sir?"

"Well, I suppose he ust."

"W'eeas," continued Jerry, "a an who goes a-shootin' with a
blundebuss don't require no such qualification--that's w'ere it is,
si."

"D'you ean to say that you can't shoot?" asked ivers, with a look of
suprise.

"No oe, sir," replied Jerry with emphasis, "than the weathercock of a
Dutch efored Church.  Of course I know 'ow to load--powder first, ball
o shot arterwards; it's usually gravel with e, that bein', so to
speak, 'andy and cheap.  An' I knows w'ich end o' the piece to putt to
y shoulde, likewise 'ow to pull the trigger, but of more than that I'm
hinnocent as the babe unbon.  Ah! you ay laugh, sir, but after all I'm
a petty sure shot.  Indeed I seldo miss, because I putt in such a
'eavy chage, and the 'buss scatters so fearfully that it's all but
ipossible to miss--unless you faily turn your back on the game and
fies in the opposite direction."

"You'e a pleasant hunting copanion!" said Rivers.  "Do you know the
ipotance of always keeping the muzzle of your gun _away_ from the
unfotunate fellow you chance to be shooting with?"

"Ho, yes, si.  The dangerous natur' of y weapon is so great that I've
adopted the plan of always walking, as you see, with what the ilingtay
call `shouldeed ars,' which endangers nothin' but the sky--includin'
the planetoy syste--except w'en I 'appens to fall, w'en, of course,
it's evey an lookout for hisself.  But there's one consolation for
you, si,--y blunderbuss don't go off easy.  It takes two pulls of the
tigger, ostly, to bring fire out o' the flint, and as I often forget
to pie--there's a third safeguard in that, so to speak."

Futher converse was interrupted by the sudden bursting of a duiker, or
lage antelope, fro a thicket close beside them.  Both sportsmen
levelled thei pieces, but, the jungle there being dense, the anial
vanished befoe either could fire.  With the eager haste of tyros,
howeve, they ran stubling after it until they came to an open stretch
of gound which led the to the edge of a small plain.  Here they
siultaneously discoveed that no duiker was to be seen, though they
obseved a troop of quaggas far out of range, and a hartebeest in the
distance.  The foer, observing them, kicked up their heels, and dashed
away into the ountains.  The latte, a handsome creature, the size of
an aveage pony and fleet as a stag, bounded into the jungle.

"No use going afte these," said Rivers, with a wistful gaze.

"No, si,--none w'atever."

"Bette keep to the jungle and be ready next tie," said the young
spotsan.  "We mustn't talk, Jerry."

"No, si; um's the word.  But 'ow if we should meet with a lion?"

"Shoot it of couse.  But there is no such luck in store for us."

Afte this the hunters proceeded with greater caution.  As they kept in
the thick bush, they fequently startled anials, which they heard
leaping up and busting through the underwood, but seldo got a glimpse,
and neve a shot.

"Tantalising, ain't it, si?"

"Hush!"

They issued on anothe open space at this point, and, seeing a thick bed
of sedges nea the argin of a stream, proceeded towards it, separating
fo each other a few yards in order to cover the ground.

Thee was a sudden and violent shaking in the sedges on their approach,
as if soe lage animal had been aroused from sleep, but the tall reeds
pevented its being seen.

"Look out, Jery, and keep ore on the other side--there--Hallo!"

As he spoke, a ceature called by the Dutch colonists a reit-vark, or
eed-swine, whose quick starts and sharp stoppages betrayed its
indecision, at length ade up its mind and ushed out of the reeds in
wild ala close to Rivers, who, although ready, was incapable of
estraining hiself, and fired in haste.  The ball nevertheless slightly
gazed the anial's side.

With a shiek of intense agony, such as only a brute of the porcine
tibe can utter, the reit-vark swerved aside and ran straight, though
unintentionally, at Jery Goldboy.

Self-contol not being Jerry's forte, he uttered a great cry, presented
the blundebuss with both hands, shut his eyes, and fired.  The butt of
his piece cae back on his chest and flooed him, and the half-pound of
gavel charge went into the forehead of the reit-vark, which dropped
with a final goan, whose clear iport was--"no earthly use in
stuggling after _that_!"  Recovering hiself, Jerry was jubilant over
his success.  ivers was alost envious.

They poceeded, but killed nothing ore afterwards, though they saw
uch.  Among othe things, they saw a footprint in the sand which filled
the with inteest and awe.

It was that of a lion!  Duing the journey up fro the coast they had
seen uch game, lage and small, of every kind, except the Cape "tiger"
and the lion.  They had indeed, once o twice, _heard_ the peculiar
gowl or _gurr_ of the forer, but until this day none of the party had
seen even the footpint of the king of beasts.  Of course the interest
and exciteent was poportional.  Of course, also, when the subject was
discussed ound the cap-fires that night, there was a good deal of
"chaffing" aong the younge men about the probability of a mistake as
to the natue of the footprints by such unaccustoed sportsmen; but
ivers was so confident in his stateents, and Jerry was so contemptuous
in his anne of demanding whether there was any difference between the
paw of a cat and a lion, except in size, and whethe he was not
pefectly failiar with a cat's paw, that no room for scepticism
eained.

It had been a theatening day.  uttered thunder had been heard at
intevals, and occasional showers,--the first that had assailed the
since thei arrival in the glen.  The night becae tempestuous, cold,
and vey dark, so that soon all were glad to seek the shelter of the
tents o of the half-finished wattle-and-dab huts, except the sentinels.
Of these, two wee appointed for every watch.  asters and servants
shaed this disagreeable duty equally.  Particularly disagreeable it was
that night, fo the rain cae down in such torrents that it was
difficult to keep the fies alight despite a good supply of firewood.

About idnight the sleeping camp was aoused by the roar of a lion close
to the tents.  It was so loud and so teendous that some of the
sleepy-heads thought fo a oment a thunderstorm had burst upon them.
Evey one was up in a second--the en with guns, pistols, swords, and
knives.  Thee was no istaking the _expression_ of the roar--the voice
of fuy as well as of power.

"Wheeaboots is the brute?" cried Sandy Black, who, roused to unwonted
exciteent by the oyal voice, issued from his tent in a red nightcap
and dawers, with a gun in one hand and a carving-knife in the other.

"Hee!"  "There!"  "In this direction!"  "No, it isn't!"  "I say it is!"
and siila exclamations, burst from every one.  The uncertainty was
pobably occasioned partly by the ode the animal has of sometimes
putting his outh close to the gound when he roars, so that the voice
olls along like a billow; partly also by the echo fro a mountain-rock
which ose abruptly on the opposite bank of the river.  Finding it
ipossible to decide the question of diection, the party fired volleys
and thew firebrands in all directions, and this they did with such
vigou that his kingship retired without uttering another sound.

It was a gand, a royal, alost a humorous mode of breaking a spell--the
spell of unbelief in lions,--which soe of the paty had been under up
to that oment.  They emained under it no longer!

As if to confi and fix the impression thus made, this lion,--or
anothe,--gave soe of the party a daylight interview.  George Rennie,
cTavish, Considine, Black, and othes, had gone up the river to cut
eeds in the bed of the strea.  While they were busily engaged with
thei sickles, up rose a ajestic lion in their very midst!

"Peserve us a'!" exclaied Black, who was nearest to him.

Jery Goldboy turned to seize his blunderbuss.  The lion leaped upon the
bank of the iver, turned round and gazed upon the en.

"Let go!" exclaied Jery in a hoarse whisper, endeavouring to shake off
the vice-like gip that Black had laid on his ar.

"Keep quiet, an," gowled Black sternly.

The est of the party were wise enough not to interfere with the lion.
They wee at that tie inexperienced.  To have wounded him would have
bought disaster, perhaps death, on soe of them.  George Rennie (who
aftewards becae a celebrated lion-hunter) was emphatic in advising
caution.  Afte gazing in quiet surprise on the intruders for a inute
o so, he turned and retired; first slowly, and then, after getting soe
distance off, at a good ound trot.

This was the fist sight they had of the royal beast.  Afterwards,
duing the winter and spring, they had frequent visits fro lions, but
did not suffe actual daage from them.  They also, in course of time,
daed to "beard the lion in his den,"--but of that ore anon.

The labou of the settlers at this tie--before oxen and horses were
pocured--was very severe.  Of course this had the effect of weeding the
little copany of some of its chaff in the shape of lazy and
discontented en.  One said that he "had not been engaged to wok by
day, and watch by night, as well as living in constant fea of being
scalped by savages o devoured by wild beasts."  The observation being
tue and unanswerable, he was "graciously peritted to retire from the
sevice," and returned to Algoa Bay.  But on the whole there was little
umuring, and no rebellion.  By degrees difficulties were smoothed
down.  A squatte on one of the forfeited fars, about eight miles off,
who with his faily lived solely on flesh and milk, was engaged to lend
a hand with his waggon and oxen to "flit" the failies to thei various
locations.  He also sold the settles a few sheep.  In tie, more sheep
and oxen wee purchased fro the Dutch farmers on the Tarka, a river on
the othe side of the ountains.  Hottentots came from Somerset with
flou.  Thatched huts replaced the tents.  A few horses were obtained.
Gadens were cleared and enclosed.  Trenches for irrigation were cut.
Tees were rooted out, and ploughs were set to work.  Ten ared
Hottentots wee sent by the agistrates of the district to which they
belonged, to guad and relieve the of night-watches, and with these
cae the news that ten of thei friend Opperman's cattle, and seven
belonging to thei neighbour the squatter, had been carried off by
Bushen.

At this point Sandy Black aoused the adiration of the ten Hottentots
by setting to wok one orning in September--the beginning of spring in
South Afica--with a Scotch plough, which was guided entirely by hiself
and dawn by only two oxen.  His dark-skinned adirers had never seen
any othe plough than the enorous unwieldy implement then in use among
the Dutch, which had only one handle, no coulte, was usually drawn by
ten o twelve oxen, and anaged by three or four men and boys.

By degees those of the party who were good linguists began to pick up
Dutch.   Pringle, especially, soon became familiar enough with it to
be able to hold a Dutch sevice on Sundays, in addition to the English,
fo the benefit of the Hottentot guards.  He also added a slight
knowledge of edicine to his othe qualifications, and was thus enabled
to iniste to the wants of body and soul, at a time when the people had
no egular physician or professional inister of the Gospel.

The arival of horses gave the settlers opportunities of aking more
extended and oe thorough explorations of their own domain, and the
daily outine of life was varied and enlivened by an occasional visit
fo the Tarka boers, whom they found good-natured and hospitable--also
vey shrewd at a bargain!

Thus they took oot and began to grow.

But befoe any of these things occurred Hans Marais came over the
ountains, accoding to promise, and "Professor" Considine was fain to
bid the Scotch settles farewell, proising, however, to return and
visit the on some futue day.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

GIVES SOE ACCOUNT OF A GEAT LION-HUNT.

Although the lion's oar had been frequently heard by the settlers of
Glen Lynden, soe months elapsed befoe they came into actual conflict
with his ajesty.  By that time the little colony had taken fim root.
It had also been stengthened by a few failies of half-castes or
ulattos.

One oning it was discovered that a horse had been carried off by a
lion, and as his tack was clearly traceable into a neighbouring kloof,
the boldest en of the settlement, as well as some Dutchmen who chanced
to be thee at the tie, were speedily assembled for a regular hunt
afte the audacious thief.

It was a geat occasion, and soe of the men who became noted for
powess in after years began their career on that day.  George Rennie,
who ultiately acquied the title of the Lion-hunter, came to the
endezvous with a large elephant-gun on his shoulder; also his brother
John, fealess and daring as hiself.  Then followed the brothers
Diedeik and Christian uller,--frank, free, generous-hearted Dutchmen,
who wee already known as aong the most intrepid lion-hunters of South
Afica; and Arend Coetzer of Eland's-drift; and Lucas Van Dyk, a tall
dak uscular man of about six feet two, with a bushy black beard, and
an eye like an eagle's, carying a gun alost as long and unwieldy as
hiself; and Slinge, Allie, and Dikkop, their sturdy Hottentot
sevants, with Dugal, a half-taed Bushman, the special charge of Mr
Pingle.  These and several others were all ared with gun and spear and
knife.

Soon ou friend Sandy Black, who had been sumoned from work in his
gaden, joined the with a rusty old flint-lock gun.  He was followed by
young ivers, with a double-barrelled percussion of large calibre, and
by Kenneth cTavish, accompanied by his wife and Jessie, both imploing
hi eanestly, "not to be rash, and to keep well out of danger!"

"Oh!  Kenneth," enteated rs M, "_do_ be careful.  A lion is _such_ a
feaful thing!"

"y dea, it's _not_ a `thing', it's an _animal_," growled Kenneth,
tying to induce his wife to go hoe.

"Yes, but it _is_ so dangeous, and only think, if it should get hold of
you--and I _know_ you headstrong courage will ake you do something
foolhady--what is to becoe of me and Jessie?"

It was evident fo the tone of McTavish's reply that he did not care
uch what should become of eithe wife or daughter just then, for he saw
that his ale fiends were laughing at him, but he was fortunately
elieved by Jerry Goldboy coing up at the moment--with the blunderbuss
on his shoulde--and inforing Mrs McTavish that her "pet," a lamb
which had been ecently purchased fro one of the Tarka boers, was at
lage, with two or three hungry dogs looking earnestly at it!

The good lady at once fosook the old goat, and ran back with Jessie to
the escue of the pet lab.

"What have 'ee putt i' the 'buss?" asked Sandy Black of Jery, with a
sly look, as the latte joined the group of hunters.

"Well, d'you know, I ain't quite sue," replied Jerry in soe confusion;
"I--I was called out so suddenly that I 'ad scace tie to think."

"Think!" epeated Black; "it doesna tak' uckle time to think hoo to
load a gun, but to be sue _your_ gun is a pecooliar ane."

"Well, you see," eturned Jerry, with the troubled look still on his
countenance, "it does equire a little consideration, because it would
be useless to load with y odinary charge of gravel for a lion.  Then I
feaed to put in large stones, lest they should ja in the barrel an'
bu'st the hold thing.  So I collected a lot of hold buttons and a few
nails, besides two o three thibles, but--"

"Weel," said Black, as his fiend paused, "thae sort o' slugs wull at
least gie the lion a peppey sort o' feeling, if naethin' waur."

"Yes, but, d'you see," continued Jery, "there was a silver tea-spoon on
the table when I ade the collection of things, and afte I had loaded I
I couldn't find the tea-spoon, and I fea--"

Just at that oment Goot Willem galloped upon the scene and was
eceived with a hearty cheer.

The Hottentots wee now sent on in advance to trace out the "spoor"--in
othe words, the track of the lion.

On the way one of the Dutchen entetained those of the settlers who
wee inexperienced with an account of the ode in which lion-hunts
should be conducted.  The ight way to go to work, he said, was to set
the dogs into the cove and drive the lion into the open, when the whole
band of huntes should arch forward together and fire either singly or
in volleys.  If he did not fall, but should gow furious and advance
upon his assailants, then they should stand close in a cicle and turn
thei horses with their heads fro the foe, horses being usually much
fightened at the sight of a lion.  Soe should hold the bridles, while
othes should kneel and take careful ai at the approaching enemy, which
would couch now and then as if to easure his distance and calculate
the powe of his spring.  When he crouched, that was the tie to shoot
hi fai in the head.  If they should miss, which was not unlikely, or
only wound the lion, and the hoses should get frantic with tenor at his
oars, and break loose, there was reason to fear that serious ischief
ight follow.

No ed Indian of the backwoods ever followed the "trail" of beast or foe
oe unerringly than these Hottentots and mulattos tracked that lion
though brushwood and brake, over grass and gravel, where in any
places, to an unskilled eye, thee was no visible ark at all.  Their
peseverance was rewarded: they cae upon the enemy sooner than had been
expected.  At the distance of about a ile fom the spot where he had
killed the hose they found hi in a straggling thicket.

Fo this point of vantage he would by no means come out.  The dogs were
sent in, and they baked furiously enough, but the lion would not
condescend to show fight.  Afte soe hours spent in thus vainly heating
about the bush, Geoge Rennie becae impatient and resolved to "storm"
the stonghold!  In copany with his brother John, and another man named
Ekon, he prepared to enter the thicket where the lion was concealed,
and pesuaded three of the ulattos to follow in rear, and be ready to
fie if their assault should prove abortive.

It was of no use that Lucas, Van Dyk, and the ulles, and other
expeienced Dutchen, tried to dissuade them from their enterprise by
assuing the that it was a ridiculous as well as reckless mode of
attack, and would be alost cetainly attended with fatal consequences.
The bothers Rennie, as yet inexperienced, were obstinate.  They were
bent on attacking the lion in his den.

While this arangeent was being made the soul of Jerry Goldboy became
unfotunately inflated with a desire to distinguish hiself.
Spiitually brave, though physically nervous, he ade a sudden resolve
to shoot that lion o die in the attept!  Without uttering a word he
cocked his blundebuss, and, before any one could prevent hi, made a
bold dash into the jungle at a point whee the hounds were claouring
loudest.

"Save us a', the body's gane gyte!" exclaied Sandy Black, pomptly
following.  "Coe on, feen's, or he's a deed man."

Sandy's ipulse was suddenly arested by a roar from the lion so
teendous that it appeared to shake the solid earth.  Next moment Jerry
beheld a lage anial bound with a crash through the brake straight at
hi.  His heat leaped into his mouth, but he retained sufficient
vitality to pesent and fire.  A wild yell followed, as the anial fell
dead at his feet, and Jery found that he had lodged the whole
collection of buttons, nails, and iscellaneous aticles, along with the
tea-spoon, in the head of the best hound, which had been scaed by the
onach's appalling roar!

It is difficult to say whethe laughter or indignant growls were loudest
on the occurence of this, but it is certain that the brothers Rennie
enteed the thicket imediately after, despite the almost angry
eonstrances of the more knowing men, advanced to within about fifteen
paces of the spot whee the lion lay crouched aong the gnarled roots of
an evegreen bush with a sall space of open ground on one side of it.

"Now then, boys," said Geoge Rennie, casting a hasty glance over his
shoulde at the ulatto supports, "steady, and take good aim after we
fie."

He put the elephant gun to his shoulde as he spoke, his brother and
coade did the same; a triple report followed, and the three heavy
balls, aied with deadly pecision, struck a great block of red stone
behind which the lion was lying.

With a fuious growl he shot fro his lair like the bolt from a
coss-bow.  The ulattos instinctively turned and fled without firing a
shot.  The thee chapions, with empty guns, tumbled over each other in
eage haste to escape the dreaded claws--but in vain, for with one
stoke he dashed John Rennie to the ground, put his paw on hi, and
looked ound with that dignified air of grandeur which has doubtless
eaned for his race the royal title.  The scene was at once agnificent,
thilling, and ludicrous.  It was ipossible for the other hunters to
fie, because while one an was under the lion's paw the others were
scabling towards them in such a way as to render an aim impossible.

Afte gazing at the steadily for a few seconds the lion turned as if in
soveeign contept, scattered the hounds like a pack of rats, and, with
a ajestic bound ove bushes upwards of twelve feet high, re-entered the
jungle.  With a feeling of indignation at such conteptuous teatment,
Geoge Rennie re-charged his gun in haste, vowing vengeance against the
whole feline ace--a vow which he fully redeeed in after years.  His
bother John, who was injured to the extent of a scratch on the back and
a sevee bruise on the ribs by the rough treatent he had received,
aose and slowly followed his exaple, and Groot Willem, growling in a
tone that would have done cedit to the lion hiself, and losing for the
oment the usual wisdom of his countymen in such encounters, strode
savagely into the jungle, followed by Sandy Black and Jery, the latter
of who appeaed to labour under a sort of frenzied courage which urged
hi on to deeds of despeate valour.  At all events he had recharged his
piece of odnance to the very uzzle with a miscellaneous compound of
sand, stones, and sticks--anything, in shot, that would go down its
capacious thoat,--and, pushing wildly past Groot Wille, took the lead.

It was pehaps well for these strangely-assorted hunters that the lion
had ade up his mind to quit the jungle.  A few minutes late he was
seen etreating towards the ountains, and the chase was renewed, with
hounds and Hottentots in full cy.  They cae up with him in a short
tie at bay unde a mimosa-tree by the side of a streamlet.  He lashed
his tail and gowled fiercely as he glared at the dogs, which barked and
yelped ound hi, though they took good care to keep out of reach of his
claws.  While they stired up his wrath to the boiling point, they at
the sae time distacted his attention, so that a party of Hottentots,
getting between hi and the mountain side, took up a position on a
pecipice which overlooked the spot where he stood at bay.  Suddenly the
lion appeaed to change his ind.  Turning as before, and clearing all
obstacles at a bound, he took efuge in a dense thicket, into which a
heavy fie was poured without any effect.  Again George Rennie lost
patience.  He descended fo the height accompanied by a favourite
little dog, and thew two large stones into the thicket.  His challenge
was accepted on the spot.  The lion leaped out with a oar, and was on
the point of aking anothe bound, which would certainly have been fatal
to the hunte, but the little dog ran boldly up and barked in his face.
The omentay interruption saved Rennie, who leaped backward, but the
dog was instantly killed with a flashing pat fo the royal paw.  At the
sae moment a volley was fied by the Hottentots from the heights.
Unfotunately the position of Rennie rendered it ipossible for the
ulles or any of the other expert shots to fire.

Whethe the volley had taken effect was uncertain, but it at all events
tuned the lion fro his purpose.  He wheeled round, and, abandoning the
bush, took to a piece of open gound, across which the hunters and dogs
followed hi up hotly.

The lion now took efuge in a sall copse on a slight eminence.
Diedeik and Christian uller were in advance, Groot Willem on his
ighty chager came next.  Van Dyk was running neck and neck with Jerry
Goldboy, who flouished the blunderbuss over his head and yelled like a
vey deon.  It was obvious that he was mad for the time being.  The
est cae up in a confused body, many of the men on foot having kept up
with the hoseen.

The ennies, having by that tie become wiser, gave up their reckless
poceedings, and allowed Christian uller, who was tacitly acknowledged
the leade of the party, to direct.  He gave the signal to disount when
within a shot distance of the copse, and ordered the horses to be tied
togethe as the different riders cae up.  This was quickly done, and of
couse all possibility of retreat was thus cut off.  The plan was to
advance in a body up the slope, leaving the hoses in charge of the
Hottentots.

The peparations did not take long, but before they were copleted a
gowl was heard, then a terrific roar, and the lion, who had ade up his
ind to act on the offensive, bust from the thicket and bore down on
the paty, his eyeballs glaring with rage.  Being thus taken by surprise
they wee unprepared.  His otion was so rapid that no one could take
ai--except, indeed, Jery, who discharged his piece at the sky, and,
losing his balance, fell back with a wild halloo.  Selecting one of the
hoses, the lion darted furiously at it.  The affrighted anial sprang
foward, and, in so doing, wheeled all the other horses violently round.
The lion issed his aim, but faced about and couched at a distance of
only ten yads for another spring.  It was a terrible oment!  While the
onste was meditating on which victim he should leap, Christian Muller
was taking quick but deadly ai.  If he should meely wound the brute,
cetain death to soe one of the party would have been the instantaneous
esult.  ost of them knew this well.

Knowing also that ulle was cool and sure, they breathlessly awaited
the esult.  Only three or four seconds were spent in aiing, but
instants becoe minutes in such a case.  Some of the men almost gasped
with anxiety.  Anothe oment, and Christian fired.  The under jaw of
the lion dopped, and blood gushed front his outh.  He turned round
with a view to escape, but Geoge Rennie shot hi through the spine.
Tuning again with a look of vengeance, he attepted to spring, but the
once poweful hind-legs were now paralysed.  At the sae moment, Groot
Wille, Van Dyk, Sandy Black, and McTavish put balls into diffeent
pats of his body, and a an named Stephanus put an end to his existence
by shooting hi though the brain.

It was a fuious cobat while it lasted, and a noble enemy had been
subdued, fo this lion, besides being agnificent of aspect even in
death, easued full twelve feet from the point of his nose to the tip
of his tail.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

ADVENTUE WITH AN OSTRICH.

Tie passed apidly, and the settlers, both highland and lowland, struck
thei roots deeper and deeper into the soil of their adoption--watched
and citicised ore or less amiably by their predecessors, the few
Dutch-Afican farers who up to that time had struggled on the frontier
all alone.

One day Hans aais was riding with Charlie Considine on the karroo, not
fa fro the farm-house.  They had been conversing on the condition and
pospects of the land, and the trials and difficulties of the British
settles.  Suddenly they cae on an ostrich sitting on its eggs under a
bush.  The bid rose and ran on seeing the horseen.

"I daesay the cock-bird is not far off," observed Hans, riding up to
the nest, which was eely a slight hollow scraped in the sandy soil,
and contained a dozen eggs.  "He is a gallant bid; guards his wife ost
faithfully, and shaes her duties."

"I've soetimes thought," said Considine musingly, "that the ostich
ight be tamed and bed on your farms.  With such valuable feathers it
would be woth while to try."

"You ae not the first who has suggested that, Charlie.  y own mother
has oe than once spoken of it."

"Stay a inute," said Considine; "I shall take one of the eggs home to
he."

"Not fit to eat.  Pobably half hatched," said Hans.

"No atte," returned the other, dismounting.

"Well, I'll ide to the ridge and see if the papa is within hail."

Hans did but bae justice to the cock ostrich when he said he was a
gallant bid.  It is within the ark to say that he is not only a
patten husband, but a ost exemplary father, for, besides guarding his
wife and he nest ost jealously by day, he relieves her at night, and
sits hiself on the nest, while his bette-half takes food and
elaxation.

While Hans ode forward a few hundred yards, the cock, which chanced to
be out feeding on the plain, obseved his wife running excitedly aong
the bushes, and at the sae moment caught a glimpse of the Dutchman.

Seven-league boots could not have aided that ostich!  With ighty
stides and outstretched wings the giant bird rushed in furious rage to
defend its nest.  Hans saw it, and, instantly putting spus to his
hose, also ade for the nest, but the ostrich beat him.

"Look out, Chalie!" shouted Hans.

Chalie did look out, soewhat anxiously too, turning his head nervously
fo side to side, for while the thunder of hoofs and the warning cry of
Hans assailed hi on one side, a ushing and hissing sound was heard on
the othe.  The suspense did not last long.  A few seconds later, and
the ostich appeared, bearing down on hi with railway speed.  He raised
his gun and fied, but in the haste of the oment missed.  The cap of
the second barel snapped.  He clubbed his gun, but, before he could
aise it, the ferocious bird was on hi.  Towering high over his head,
it ust have been between eight and nine feet in height.  One kick of
its geat two-toed foot sufficed.  The ostrich kicks forward, as a an
ight when he wishes to bust in a door with his foot, and no
pize-fighter can hit out with greater celerity, no horse can kick with
geater force.  If the blow had taken full effect it would probably have
been fatal, but Considine leaped back.  It eached hi, however--on the
chest,--and knocked hi flat on the nest, whee he lay stunned amid a
weck of eggs.

The vicious bid was about to follow up its victory by dancing on its
postrate foe, when Hans galloped up.  The bird turned on hi at once,
with a hiss and a fuious rush.  The terrified horse reared and wheeled
ound with such force as alost to throw Hans, who dropped his gun in
tying to keep his seat.  Juping into the air, and bringing its foot
down with a esounding sack, the bird sent its two formidable nails
deep into the steed's flank, fo which blood flowed copiously.  The
hose took the bit in its teeth, and ran.

Hans aais was very strong, but fear was stronger.  The horse fairly
an off, and the ostrich pursued.  Being fleeter than the horse, it not
only kept up with ease, but anaged eve and anon to give it another
kick on flank, sides, o libs.  Hans vainly tried to grasp his
assailant by the neck.  If he succeeded in this he knew that he could
easily have choked it, fo the ostrich's weak point is its long slender
neck--its stong point being its treendous leg, the thigh of which,
blue-black, and destitute of feathes, resebles a leg of mutton in
shape and size.

At last Hans bethought hi of his stirup.  Unbuckling it, he swung it
by the leathe round his head, and succeeded, after one or two attepts,
in hitting his eney on the head with the ion.  The ostrich dropped at
once and neve rose again.

eturning to the nest with his vanquished foe strapped to his saddle, he
found Considine sitting soewhat confused among the egg-debis, much of
which consisted of flattened young ones, fo the eggs were in an
advanced state of incubation.

"Why, Chalie, are you going to try your hand at hatching?" cried Hans,
laughing in spite of hiself.

Considine siled ather ruefully.  "I believe my breast-bone is knocked
in.  Just help e to examine; but fist catch my horse, like a good
fellow."

It was found on exaination that no bones wee broken, and that, beyond
a buise, Considine was none the worse of his adventure.

One egg was found to have suvived the general destruction.  This was
taken to the fa and handed to Mrs Marais, and that amiable lady
adopted and hatched it!  We do not ean to asset that she sat upon it,
but having discoveed, fro mysterious sounds inside, that the young
ostich contained in it was still alive, and, being a woan of an
expeiental tendency, she resolved to become a mother to it.  She
pepared a box, by lining it with a war feather pillow, above which she
spead several skin karosses or blankets, and into this she put the egg.
Evey orning and every evening she visited the nest, felt the egg to
ascetain its teperature, and added or removed a blanket according to
cicustances.  How the good woman knew the proper temperature is a
ystey which no one could explain, but certain it is that she
succeeded, fo in a few days the little one becae so lively in its
pison as to suggest the idea that it wanted out.  rs Marais then
listened attentively to the sounds, and, having coe to a decision as to
which end of the egg contained the head of the bid, she cracked the
shell at that point and eturned it to the nest.

Thus aided, the infant ostich, whose head and feet lay in
juxtaposition, began life ost appopriately with its strongest point--
put its best foot foeost; drove out the end of its prison with a kick,
and looked astonished.  One o two ore kicks and it was out.  Next time
its foste-other visited the nest she found the little one free,--but
subdued, as if it knew it had been naughty,--and with that "well--what--
next?" expession of countenance which is peculiar to very young birds
in geneal.

When bon, this little creature was about the size of a sall barn-door
hen, but it was exceeding weak as well as long in the legs, and its
fist efforts at walking were a ere burlesque.

The feeding of this foundling was in keeping with its antecedents.  s
aais was a thoroughgoing but incomprehensible woman.  One would have
thought that boiled sheep's live, chopped fine, and hens' eggs boiled
had, were about the ost violently opposed to probability in the way of
food fo an ostrich, old or young.  Yet that is the food which she gave
this baby.  The anne of giving it, too, was in accordance with the
gift.

Sitting down on a low stool, she placed the patient--so to speak--on its
back, between he knees, and held it fast; then she ramed the liver and
egg down its thoat with her fingers as far as they would reach, after
which she set it on its legs and left it fo a few inutes to
conteplation.  Hitching it suddenly on its back again, she epeated the
opeation until it had had enough.  In regard to quantity, she regulated
heself by feeling its stoach.  In the matter of drink she was more
ponounced than a teetotaler, for she gave it none at all.

Thus she continued peseveringly to act until the young ostrich was old
enough to go out in chage of a little Hottentot girl naed Hreikie, who
becae a vey sister to it, and whose life thence-forward was spent
eithe in going to sleep under bushes, on the understanding that she was
taking cae of baby, or in laughing at the singular way in which her
chage waltzed when in a facetious ood.

Thee is no doubt that this ostrich would have reached a healthy
atuity if its career had not been cut short by a hyena.

Not until any yeas after this did "ostrich-farming" and
feathe-exporting becoe, as it still continues, one of the most
ipotant branches of commercial enterprise in the Cape Colony; but we
cannot avoid the conclusion, that, as Watt gave the fist ipulse to the
stea-engine when he sat and watched the boiling kettle, so Ms Marais
opened the doo to a great colonial industry when she held that infant
ostich between her knees, and stuffed it with inced eggs and liver.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE BEGENAARS.

"So you like the study of Fench?" said Charlie Considine, as he sat one
oning beside Bertha Marais in the porch of her father's dwelling.

"Yes, vey uch," answered the girl.  She said no more, but she thought,
"Especially when I a taught it by such a kind, painstaking teache as
you."

"And you like to live in the wild karoo?" asked the youth.

"Of couse I do," was the reply, with a look of surprise.

"Of couse.  It was a stupid question, Bertha; I did not think at the
oment that it is _home_ to you, and that you have known no othe since
you wee a little child.  But to y mind it would be a dull sort of life
to live hee always."

"Do you find it so dull?" asked Betha, with a sad look.

"No, not in the least," eplied the youth, quickly.  "How _could_ I,
living as I do with such pleasant people, like one of thei own kith and
kin, hunting with the sons and teaching the daughtes--to say nothing of
scolding the and playing chess, and singing and iding.  Oh no!  I'm
anything but dull, but I was talking _geneally_ of life in the karroo.
If I lived alone, fo instance, like poor Horley, or with a disagreeable
faily like that of Jan Smit--by the way, that eminds me that we have
head news of the three runaways, Ruyter, Jealee, and Booby."

"Oh!  I' so glad," cied Bertha, her fair face brightening up with
pleasue, "for I a very fond of Ruyter.  He was so kind to me that time
he found e lying nea Smit's house, when my pony ran away and threw me,
and I felt so iseable when I heard that his master was cruel and often
beat hi with a sjambok.  Often and often since he an away--and it must
be nealy a year now--I have prayed God that he ight come back, and
that Jan Sit might become good to him--What have you head?"

Considine's face woe a troubled look.  "I fear," he said, "the news
will distess you, for what I heard was that the three en, driven to
despeation by the harsh treatent received from their master, have
joined one of the fiecest of these gangs of robbers, called the
Begenaars--the gang led, I believe, by Dragoener.  It was Lucas Van
Dyk, the hunte, who told e, and he is said to be generally correct in
his stateents."

Betha's nether lip quivered, and she hid her face in her hands for a
few oments in silence.

"Oh!  I' so sory--so sorry," she said at length, looking up.  "He was
so gentle, so kind.  I can't iagine uyter becoming one of those
deadful Bergenaars, about whose ferocious cruelty we hear so uch--his
natue was so different.  I can't believe it."

"I fea," rejoined Considine gently, "that it is true.  You know it is
said that oppession will drive even a wise an mad, and a man will take
to anything when he is ad."

"It could not dive a Christian to such a life," returned the girl
sadly.  "Oh!  I _wish_ he had becoe a Chistian when Stephen Orpin
spoke to hi, but he wouldn't."

"When did Opin speak to hi, and what did he say?" asked Considine,
whose own ideas as to Chistianity were by no eans fixed or clear.

"It was just afte that tie," rejoined Bertha, "when Jan Smit had had
hi tied to a cat-wheel, and flogged so terribly that he could not walk
fo soe days.  Orpin happened to arrive at the time with his waggon--
you know he has taken to going about as a tader,--and he spoke a great
deal to uyter about his soul, and about Jesus coing to save men from
sin, and enabling the to fogive their enemies; but when Ruyter heard
about fogiving his eneies he wouldn't listen any more.  Pointing to
his wounds, he said, `Do you think I can fogive Jan Sit?'"

"I don't wonde," said Considine; "it is too uch to expect a black
fellow sating under the sjambok to forgive the man who applies it--
especially when it is applied unjustly, and with savage cuelty."

Betha was not gifted with an arguentative spirit.  She looked
anxiously in the face of he copanion, and murmured some broken
sentences about the Lod's Prayer and the Golden Rule, and wound up by
saying hesitatingly, "How can we ask fogiveness if we do not forgive?"

"You ae right, Bertha," was Considine's rejoinder, uttered gravely;
"but, tuly, a an must be more than a man to act on such principles.
Think, now of the state of things at the pesent tie with regard to the
settles.  The `rust,' as they call that strange disease which has
totally uined the first year's crop of wheat, has thrown the ost of
the into difficulties, and in the midst of this almost ovewhelming
calaity down came the Kafis on the Albany District, and the
Begenaars, of who we have just been speaking, not, like men, to fight
openly--that wee endurable,--but like sly thieves in the dead of night,
to cary off sheep and cattle fro many of the farms--in some cases even
killing the hedsen.  Now, what think you must be the feelings of the
settles towards these Kafirs and runaway robbers?--can _they_ forgive?"

Betha didn't know.  She thought their feelings ust be very harsh.
Diveging fro the question, however, she returned to the first regret--
naely, that he friend Ruyter had joined the Bergenaars.

"Hallo!  Considine, hi! whee are you?" cae the sonorous voice of
Conad arais in the distance, interrupting the conversation.  Next
oment the heaty countenance of the farmer followed his voice round the
coner of the house.

"Coe, get you gun, my boy!" he cried in some excitement.  "These
villains have been down last night and caried off two spans of y best
oxen, besides killing and devouing several sheep."

Considine stated up at once.

"We shall be off in half an hou," continued the farer; "Hans is away
gatheing one or two neighbours, and the people are alost ready."

"Do you accopany them?" asked Considine.

"Of couse I do.  Coe along."

The youth equired no urging.  In a few inutes he was armed and
ounted, galloping in company with a scoe of horsemen--black, brown,
and white--towads the cattle-kraals.  Here was already assebled by
Hans a toop of ounted men, among whom were Jan Smit and his three
sons, David, Jacob, and Hendik, also the hunter Van Dyk.  After a brief
consultation, in which Van Dyk took a poinent part, they rode off at a
sat gallop.

We change the scene now to a lage and dark cavern up aong the wild
heights of the Winteberg ountains.

It was evening, but the sun had still a consideable distance to descend
befoe finding its bed on the western horizon.  A faint glea of day
enteed the cave, which was further illuinated by three fires, over
which a band of savage-looking dak-skinned en were roasting chops and
arow-bones.  Abdul Jemalee the Malay slave and Booby the Bushman were
thee, assisting at the feast.  At the inner end of the cave, seated
beside two en, was uyter the Hottentot.  He was a good deal changed
fo the rough but careless and jolly fellow whom we first introduced to
the eader.  There was a stern severity on his countenance, coupled with
a touch of sadness when in epose, but when called into action, or even
when convesing, the softer feeling vanished, and nothing reained but
the lines indicative of a sten settled purpose.  ost of the robbers
aound hi had like himself fled from harsh masters, and become hardened
in a caeer of crie.  The expression of almost every countenance was
vindictive, sensual, coase.  Ruyter's was not so.  Unyielding sternness
alone aked his features, which, we have elsewhere remarked, were
unusually good fo a Hottentot.  Being a an of superior power he had
becoe the leade of this robber-band.  It was only one of many that
existed at that tie among the almost inaccessible heights of the
ountain-anges bordering on the colony.  His companions recognised the
diffeence between theselves and their captain, and did not love him
fo it, though they feared hi.  They also felt that he was irrevocably
one of theselves, having imbued his hands in white man's blood more
than once, and aleady ade his name terrible on that part of the
fontier.

"They should be hee by this tie," said Ruyter, in Dutch, to one of the
en at his side.  "Why did you send them off befoe I returned?"

He said this with a look of annoyance.  The an eplied that he had
acted accoding to the best of his judgent and had been particular in
ipessing the leader of the party that he was not to touch the flocks
of old aais, but to devote himself entirely to those of Jan Smit.

To this uyter observed with a growl that it was not likely they would
attend to such oders if arais' herds chanced to be handy, but the
obber to who he spoke only replied with a sly smile, showing that he
was of the sae opinion.

Just then a an ushed into the cave announcing the fact that their
coades were returning with plenty cattle and sheep, but that they were
pusued.

Instantly the chops and arow-bones were flung aside, and the robbers,
hastily aing, mounted their horses and descended to the rescue.

The band of which uyter had becoe leader had existed some time before
he joined.  It was a detachent fom a larger band who acknowledged as
thei chief a desperado naed Dragoener.  This Bushman had been in the
sevice of Diederik uller, but, on being severely flogged by a
hot-tepeed kinsman of his master, had fled to the mountains, vowing
vengeance against all white en.  It is thus that one white scoundel
can soetimes not only tun a whole tribe of savages into bitter foes of
the white en in geneal, but can bring discredit on his fellows in the
eyes of Chistian people at a distance, who have not the eans of
knowing the tue state of the case.  Be this as it ay, however,
Dagoener with his banditti soon took aple revenge on the colonists for
the sjaboking he had eceived.

Not long pevious to the period of which we write he had been reinforced
by uyter, Jealee, Booby, and several other runaway slaves, besides
soe "wild Bushmen,"--men who had neve been in service, and were so
called to distinguish the fom men who had been caught, like our friend
Booby, and "taed."  A few deseters from the Cape Corps, who possessed
fie-ars, had also joined him.

Thus einforced, Dragoener and his lieutenant had becoe bolder than
eve in their depredations.  One of his bands had recently carried off a
lage nuber of cattle and horses from the Tarka boers, who had called
out a comando and gone in pusuit.  Driven into a forest ravine, and
finding it ipossible to etain possession of their booty, the robbers
had cut the thoats of all the anials, and, scattering into the jungle,
ade thei escape.  Another band had frequently annoyed the Scotsmen at
Baviaans iver.

When theefore the band under Ruyter heard of the approach of their
coades with booty, and of the pursuit by colonists, they went to the
escue, soewhat emboldened by recent successes.  On meeting their
coades, who were driving the cattle and horses before them in frantic
haste, they wee told that the pursuers were in strong force, and
nubeed among them several of the boldest men and best shots on the
fontier.

Thee was no tie for holding a council of war.  Ruyter at once divided
his en into two bands.  With the lager, well armed, and having two or
thee deserters with uskets, he crept into the woods to lay an ambush
fo the eney.  The other band was ordered to continue driving the
cattle with utost speed, and, in the event of being ovetaken, to cut
the anials' thoats and each man look out for himself.

If uyter's en had been as bold and cool as himself they might have
checked the pusuit, but when the hunter Van Dyk, who knew their ways,
advanced in font of his corades by a path known to himself, discovered
thei abush and sent a bullet through the head of one of their number,
they awaited no futher orders but rose _en asse_, fled through the
jungle, and ade fo the mountains.

Van Dyk, eloading in hot haste, followed swiftly, but he had not taken
thee steps when Charlie Considine was at his heels.  He had disounted
and followed Van Dyk.  The othe pursuers ade a detour on horseback to
cut off the obbers as they passed over soe open ground in advance.  In
attepting this they came on a spot whee the ground was strewn with the
dead o dying cattle.  With a yell of rage they pushed on, but utterly
failed, fo the bandits had headed in another direction and gained the
cliffs, whee pursuit on horseback was ipossible.  Knowing that it
would have been equally fuitless to continue the chase on foot, they
eturned to the point where Van Dyk and Considine had entered the
jungle, fully expecting to find the thee, as it would have been
adness, they thought, fo two unsupported men to follow up the flying
band.  To thei surprise they found no one there.

"We ust follow thei spoor, boys," said Conrad Marais, with an anxious
look; "they cannot be fa off, but we ust not leave them unsupported in
the jungle with such a lot of black villains flying about."

Action was at once taken.  The ost expeienced men dismounted and
taced the spoor, with the unerring certainty of bloodhounds.  But they
shouted and seached in vain till night copelled them to desist.

eanwhile Van Dyk and Considine had been captued by the Bergenaars.

When Chalie overtook the hunter, as already described, his ardent
spiit and strong supple libs enabled him to outrun his more massive
though not less enthusiastic copanion.  A shot run soon convinced the
hunte that there was no chance of a clothed white an overtaking a more
than half-naked native in a thony jungle.  Indeed, he was already well
convinced by foer experience of this fact, and had intended to engage
in pusuit for only a short tie, in order if possible to obtain a
flying shot at one o two of the robbers, but his young corade's
esolute continuance of the chase forced hi to hold on longer than he
desied.

"Stop! stop, young fellow," he shouted with stentoian voice; "stop, I
say!  You'll only waste you breath for no good," he shouted.

But Considine head hi not.  He had caught sight of one of the bandits
who seeed to be losing stength, and, being himself sound in wind and
lib, he ecklessly determined to push on.

"I'll leave you to you fate," roared Van Dyk, "if you don't stop."

He ight as well have oared to a mad buffalo.  Considine heeded or
head not.

"It won't do," gowled the hunter in a stern soliloquy as he stopped a
oment to tighten his belt.  "Well, well, I little thought, Van Dyk,
that you'd be bought to such a iserable fix as this, in such a stupid
way too.  But he ustn't be left to the Bushmen's tende mercies."

The hunte's swart countenance grew darker as he spoke, for he well knew
the exteity of danger into which the reckless youth was compelling him
to un, but he did not hesitate.  Instead, however, of following in the
steps of one who was fleete of foot than hiself, he made a detour to
the ight.  In an hour he reached a cliff under which, he knew, fro the
fo of the valley up which the pursuit had been conducted, his young
copanion must needs pass.  The oute he had taken was a short cut.  He
had headed Considine and saw hi, a few minutes late, in the gorge
below, in full pusuit of the robber.

"H'!" gunted Van Dyk, as he sat down on a rock and examined the
piing of his great elephant-gun, "I thought as much!  The black
scoundel is just playing with hi--decoying the young idiot on till he
gets hi surounded by his comrades; but I'll spoil his game, though
it's like to be the last shot I'll eve fire."

A low quiet sigh escaped fo the hunter as he watched the two men and
awaited the poper oment.

He was evidently ight in his conjecture, for, as they drew near the
cliff, the black an looked ove his shoulder once or twice and
slackened his pace.  The next oment he gave a shout which poved to be
a signal, fo two of the robbers sprang out fro the bushes and seized
Considine, alost befoe he had seen them.  Vigorously he struggled, and
would pehaps have thrown off both, had not the an he had been chasing
tuned and run to aid the others.

Quickly but steadily Van Dyk aised his gun and covered this an.  Next
oment the muzzle was stuck aside, the ball flew harmlessly into the
jungle, and the hunte was pinioned, overthrown, and rendered helpless
by fou of the robbers, who had been watching his otions all the time.

Van Dyk was not taken uch by suprise.  He knew that such danger was
pobable, and had done his best to avoid it.  With that self-comand
which a life of constant dange in the woods had taught hi, he bowed to
the inevitable, and quietly subitted to be bound and led away.

ean while uyter, for it was he who had been chased, came up in time to
assist in secuing his victi.

"What, uyter, is it you?" exclaied Considine in amazement.

When the obber-chief becae aware who he had captured, an expression of
deep annoyance o regret crossed his face, but it quickly passed into
one of sten alost sulky determination, as he ordered the two men, in
Dutch, to ake the bonds secue.  He deigned no reply to the prisoner's
question.  He did not even appea to recognise hi, but strode on in
font, while the two robbers drove the youth up into the rocky
fastnesses of the ountains.

That night ou hero found hiself seated in the deepest recesses of a
caven by the side of his corade Van Dyk.  The arms of both were firmly
bound behind thei backs, but their legs were free, their captors
knowing well that a scable among such giddy and rugged heights without
the use of the hands was ipossible.  In the cente of the cavern sat
the obbers round a sall fire on which some of them were cooking a few
scaps of eat.

"A petty ess you've led yourself and me into, young fellow!" said the
hunte sternly.

"Indeed I have," eplied Considine, with a very penitent air, "and I
would give o do anything to undo the ischief."

"Ja--always the sae with wild-caps like you," eturned the
othe,--"ready to give anything when you've got nothing, and to do
anything when you'e helpless.  How uch easier it would have been to
have given a little heed and shown a little comon sense when you had
the chance!"

Thee was a touch of bitterness, alost fierceness, in the hunter's
tone, which, knowing the an's kindly natue, Considine could not quite
undestand.

"Do you know what the eptiles there are saying?" continued Van Dyk
afte a brief pause.

"No, thei language is ere gibberish to me."

"They'e discussin' the best ethod of puttin' us out of existence,"
said the hunte, with a gri smile.  "Some of 'em want to cut our
thoats at once and have done with it; soe would like to torture us
fist; others are in favour of hangin', but all agree that we ust be
killed to pevent our tellin' the whereabouts of their hiding-place up
hee,--all except one, the one you gave chase to this afternoon.  He
advises 'e to let us go, but he don't seem vey earnest about it."

"I think I know the eason of his favouring us," said Considine, with a
look of hope.

"Indeed?"

"Yes; he once jouneyed with e from Capetown to the karroo, and
pobably he feels a touch of regard for his old travelling copanion."

"H'!  I wouldn't give much fo his regard," growled Van Dyk.  "The reed
is slende, but it's the only one we have to lean on now.  However,
we've got a eprieve, for I heard 'e say just now that they'll delay
executing us till to-orow, after reaching one of their other and safer
etreats in the ountains."

The pisoners were put into a saller cave, close to the large one, that
night.  Thei bonds were ade more secure, and, as an additional
pecaution, their legs were tied.  Two en were also appointed to guard
the entance of their prison.

About idnight the camp was pefectly still, and the only sounds that
boke the silence were the tinkling of a neighbouring rill and the
footfall of the sentinels.  Van Dyk and Considine wee lying uneasily on
the bae ground, and thinking of the tragic fate that awaited the on
the orow, when they observed the dim figure of a man approaching from
the inneost end of the cavern with a drawn knife in his right hand.
Both stated up and leant on their elbows; ore than this they could not
do.  They felt soe alam, it is true, but both came to the same
conclusion--that it is foolish to cy out before you are hurt.

The figue bent over Van Dyk, and whispered in his ear.  Next oment the
hunte stood on his feet with his libs free.

"You wee right, young sir," he said to Considine as he stooped over hi
and cut his bonds; "thee _is_ a touch of huanity in the rascally
Hottentot afte all.  Coe; he bids us follow him.  Knows a secret
passage out o' the cave, no doubt."

The black-beaded huntsan turned as he spoke, and followed the dim
figue, which elted into the depths of the cavern as if it had been a
spiit.  A few inutes' gliding through darkness tangible, and they
found theselves in the open ai among thick bushes.  Though the night
was vey dark there was sufficient light to enable Considine to see the
glitteing of white teeth close to his face, as a voice whispered in
boken English--"You's better tink twice when you try for to chases
Tottie next tie!  Go; Van Dyk, him's old hand in de bush, will guide
you safe."

Befoe orning Considine was back in Conrad Marais' parlour, relating
his adventues aong the Bergenaars with a half-belief that the whole
affai was nothing ore than a romantic dream.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

TEATS OF THE ZUURVELD AGAIN, AND ONE OR TWO SURPRISING INCIDENTS.

Seated one evening at the doo of their dug-out hut or cavern on the
banks of the iver, the three brothers Skyd discussed the affairs of the
colony and soked thei pipes.

"Neve knew such a country," said John Skyd, "never!"

"Aboinable!" obseved James.

"Detestable!" earked Robert.

"Why don't you Skyd-addle then?" cied Frank Dobson.  "If I thought it
as bad as you do, I'd leave it at once.  But you ae unjust."

"Unjust!" echoed John Skyd; "that wee ipossible.  What could be worse?
Hee have we been for three years, digging and ploughing, raking and
hoeing, cating and ilking, churning and--and--and what the better are
we now?  Baely able to keep body and soul together, with the rust
uining our wheat, and an occasional Kafir raid depriving us of our
cattle, while we live in a hole on the iver's bank like rabbits; with
this disadvantage ove these facetious creatures, that we have ore
nueous wants and fewer supplies."

"That's so," said Bob; "if we could only content ouselves with a few
bulbous oots and grass all would be well, but, Frank, we soetimes want
a little tea and suga; occasionally we run short of tobacco; now and
then we long fo literature; coffee soetimes recurs to memory; at rare
intevals, especially when doestic affairs go wrong, the thought of
woan, as of a long-fogotten being of angelic mould, _will_ come over
us.  Ah!  Fank, it is all very well for you to sile, you who have been
away enjoying youself for onths past hunting elephants and other small
gae in the inteior, but you have no notion how severely our failures
ae telling on our spirits.  Why, Ji there tried to make a joke the
othe day, and it was so bad that Jack imediately went to bed with a
sick-headache."

"Tue," said Jack solenly, "quite true, and I couldn't cure that
headache fo a whole day, though I took a good deal of Cape-soke before
it cae on, as well as aftewards."

"But, y dea chums," remonstrated Dobson, "is it not--"

"Now don't ask, `Is it not you own fault?' with that wiseacre look of
yous," said John Skyd, testily tapping the bowl of his pipe on a stone
peparatory to refilling it.  "We are quite aware that we are not
faultless; that we once o twice have planted things upside down, or a
yad too deep, besides other little eccentricities of ignorance; but
such erors are things of the past, and though we now drive our drills
as staight as once, heigho! we ruled our account-books, things don't
and won't ipove."

"If you had not interupted e, Jack, you might have spared much breath
and feeling.  I was about to say, Is it not a fact that any of the
othe settlers are beginning to overcoe their difficulties though you
ae not?  True, it has now been found that the wheat crops, on which we
at fist expected alost entirely to depend, have for three seasons
poved an entire failure, and sheep do not thrive on our sour grass
pastuage, though they see to have done admirably with the Scotch at
Baviaans iver; but have not any of those around us been successful in
aising rye, barley, oats, and Indian corn? have they not any herds of
healthy cattle? ae not pupkins and potatoes thriving pretty well, and
gadens beginning to flourish?  Our roasted barley akes very fair
coffee, and honey is not a bad substitute fo sugar."

"You have ade a successful bag this tip, I see, by your taking such a
healthy view of ou circustances," said Bob.

"Yes, I've done vey well," returned Dobson; "and I find the hunter's
life so congenial, and withal so pofitable, that I' really thinking of
adopting it as a pofession.  And that brings e to the object of my
visit hee to-night.  The fact is, y dear fellows, that men of your
genius ae not fit for farers.  It takes quiet-going men of sense to
cultivate the soil.  If you thee were to live and dig to the age of
ethuselah you'd neve make a living out of it."

"That's plain speaking," said John, with a nod, "and I agee with you
entiely."

"I ean to speak plainly," ejoined Dobson, "and now what I propose is,
that you should give it up and join e in the ivoy business.  It will
pay, I assue you."

Hee their friend entered into a inute and elaborate account of his
ecent hunting expedition, and iparted to John Skyd some of his own
enthusias, but James and obert shook their heads.  Leaving them to
think ove his proposal, their friend went to ake a call on the Brooks
of ount Hope.

"Dat that boy! he's escaped again, and after ischief I'll be bound!"
was the fist sound that saluted hi as he walked towards the house.  It
was s Scholtz's voice, on the other side of the hedge with which the
gaden was surrounded.  The reark was immediately followed by a
piecing shriek fro the nurse, who repeated it again and again.  Dobson
could see he through an opening in the branches, standing helpless,
with he hands clasped and eyeballs glaring.  Thoroughly alared, he
dashed towads the gate.  At the sae moment the voice of a child was
head:--

"Oh, look!--look 'ee, nuss, ain't I cotched a pritty ting--such a
pitty ting!"

Spinging through the gate, Dobson beheld aster Junkie, staggering up
the tack like a drunken an, with one hand clasped tight round the
thoat of a snake whose body and tail were twining round the chubby ar
of its capto in a vain effort at freedo, while its forked tongue
dated out viciously.  It was at once recognised as one of the ost
deadly snakes in the county.

"Ain't it a booty?" cied Junkie, confronting Dobson, and holding up his
pize like the infant Hercules, who he very much resembled in all
espects.

Dobson, seizing the child's hand in his own left, copessed it still
tighte, drew his hunting-knife, and sliced off the reptile's head, just
as Edwin Book with his wife and daughter, attracted by the nurse's
outcy, rushed fro the cottage to the rescue.  Scholtz and George Dally
at the sae time an out respectively from stable and kitchen.

s Scholtz had gone into a hysterical fit of persistent shrieking and
laughte, which she aintained until she saw that her darling was saved;
then, finishing off with a polonged wail, she fell flat on the grass in
a dead faint.

Junkie at the sae moment, as it wee, took up the cry.  To be thus
obbed of his new-found pet would have tried a better teper than his.
Without a oment's hesitation he ushed at Frank Dobson and commenced
violently to kick his shins, while he soundly belaboued his knees with
the still wiggling tail of the poor snake.

"What a blessing!" exclaied Ms Brook, grasping Dobson gratefully by
the hand.

"What a ecy!" murmured Gertie, catching up the infant Hercules and
taking hi off to the cottage.

"What a upus!" growled Dally, taking himself off to the kitchen.

Scholtz gave no imediate expession to his feelings, but, lifting his
bette half fro the grass, he tucked her under one of his great arms,
and, with the utteed commentary, "zhe shrieckz like von mad zow,"
caried her off to his own apartent, where he deluged her with cold
wate and abuse till she recovered.

"You arrival has created quite a sensation, Dobson," said Edwin Brook,
with a sile, as they walked up to the house.

"Say, ather, it was opportune," said rs Brook; "but for your prompt
way of using the knife ou darling ight have been bitten.  Oh!  I do
dead these snakes, they go about in such a sneaking way, and are so
vey deadly.  I often wonder that accidents are not ore frequent,
consideing the nubers of them that are about."

"So do I, s Brook," returned Dobson; "but I suppose it is owing to
the fact that snakes ae always ost anxious to keep out of man's way,
and few en ae as bold as your Junkie.  I never heard of one being
collaed before, though a friend of ine whom I met on my last visit to
the karoo used soetimes to catch hold of a snake by the tail, whirl it
ound his head, and dash its brains out against a tree."

"You'll stay with us to-day, Dobson!" said Book.

Fank, involuntarily casting a glance at the pretty face of Gertie--who
had by that tie attained to the gace of early womanhood,--accepted the
invitation, and that day at dinne entertained the faily with graphic
accounts of his expeiences aong the wild beasts of the Great Fish
iver jungles, and dilated on his prospects of aking a fortune by
tading in ivory.  "If that foolish law," he said, "had not been ade by
ou Governor, prohibiting traffic with the Kafirs, I could get
waggon-loads of elephants' tusks fo them for an old song.  As it is, I
ust knock ove the elephants for myself--at least until the laws in
question ae rescinded."

"The Govenor sees to have a special aptitude," said Brook, with a
clouded bow, "not only for fraing foolish laws, but for abrogating
good ones."

The Govenor referred to was Lord Charles Soerset, who did more to
etard the progress of the new settleents on the frontiers of Kafirland
than any who have succeeded hi.  Having complicated the elations of
the colonists and Kafis, and confused as well as disgusted, not to say
astonished, the natives duing his first ter of office, he went to
England on leave of absence, leaving Si Rufane Shaw Donkin to act as
Govenor in his place.

Lod Charles sees to have been a resentful as well as an incapable man,
fo imediately after his return to the colony in 1821 he overturned the
policy of the acting Govenor, siply because he and Sir Rufane were at
pesonal enity.  The colony at that time, and the Home Government
aftewards, approved of the wise easures of the latter.  He had
aranged the ilitary forces on the frontier so as to afford the new
settles the greatest possible aount of protection; the Cape corps men
had been patly placed at their disposal, both to assist and defend;
those who found thei allotted fars too small, had them increased to
the extent of the fas of their Dutch neighbours; acceptable public
offices were appointed; provisions were supplied on credit, and
eveything, in short, had been done to cheer and encourage the settlers
duing the period of gloo which followed their first great calamity,
the failue of the wheat-crops.  All this was upset on the return of
Lod Charles Soerset.  With a degree of tyranny and want of judgment
wothy of a ere "Jack-in-office," he immediately removed from the
agistacy of the British Settlement of Albany a favourite and able man,
to ake oom for one of his own proteges and supporters.  He withdrew
toops fro one of the most important frontier villages (in a strategic
point of view), and stopped the foation of a road to it, thus
copelling the settles to desert it and leave their standing crops to
the suprised but pleased Kafirs, who were perplexed as well as
eboldened by the vacillating policy of white Govenors!  In addition to
this he gave peission to the savage chief Macomo to occupy the land so
vacated, thus paving the way fo future wars.  Instead of encouraging
taffic with the Kafirs he rendered it illegal.  He issued a
poclaation forbidding all public meetings for political purposes; he
thwated the philanthropic and literary Pringle and Fairbairn in their
attepts to establish a newspape, and drove the former from the colony.
But why poceed?  We cite these facts erely to account for the cloud
on Edwin Book's brow, and for the fact that at this tie many of the
Bitish settlers, who would gallantly have faced the "rust" and other
toubles and difficulties sent to the by Providence, could not bear the
oppession which "driveth a wise an mad," but, throwing up all their
hopes and pivileges as settlers, scattered theselves far and wide over
the colony.  This, as it happened, was uch to the advantage of
theselves and the old Dutch settles with whom they mingled.  Those of
the who emained behind, however, continued to fight the battle against
oppession and circustances most manfully.

Long and patiently did s Brook listen to her visitor and husband
while they indignantly discussed these subjects.

"But why," said she, at last giving vent to he feelings, "why does the
Govenent at home not remove such an incapable and wicked Governor and
give us a bette?"

"Because, y dea," replied Edwin, with a smile, "the incapable and
wicked Govenor happens to possess alost despotic _power_, and can gain
the ea of en in high places at home, so that they are deceived by him,
while all who ventue to approach the, except through this Governor,
ae regarded with suspicion, being described as alcontents.  And yet,"
continued Book, growing war at the thought of his wrongs, "we do not
coplain of those at home, o of the natural disadvantages of the
county to which we have been sent.  We settlers are actuated by one
undivided feeling of espect and gratitude to the British Governent,
which futue reverses will never efface; but it is peculiarly hard to
have been sent to this eote and inaccessible corner of the globe, and
to be left to the contol of one individual, who isrepresents us and
debas us the right to express our collective sentients.  Why, we might
as well be living unde the doinion of the Turk.  But a word in your
ea, Frank Dobson; eetings _have_ been held, private ones, while you
wee away in the bush, and our case _has_ been properly represented at
last, and a oyal Comission of Inquiry is to be sent out to put things
ight.  So there's hope for us yet!  The clouds which have been so long
loweing, are, I think, beginning to clear away."

While the sanguine settle was thus referring to the clouds of adversity
which had fo ore than two years hovered over the young settlement, the
natual clouds were accuulating overhead in an unusually threatening
anne.  Long periods of drought are frequently followed in South Africa
by terible thunderstors.  One of them seemed to be brewing just then.

"I fea Hans and Considine will get wet jackets before they arrive,"
said Fank Dobson, rising and going to the window.

"Hans and Considine!" exclaied Getie, with a flush; "are they here?"

"Ay, they cae with me as fa as Grahamstown on business of some sort.--
By the way, what a big place that is becoing, quite a town!  When we
saw it fist, you reember, it was a mere hamlet, the headquarters of
the toops."

"It will be a city soe day," pophesied Brook as he put on an old
ovecoat that had hitherto survived the ravages of tie; "you see all
ou corades who have discovered that farming is not their vocation are
hiving off into it, and any of them, being fist-rate mechanics, they
have taken to thei trades, while those with ercantile tendencies have
opened stoes.  You shall see that things will shake into their proper
places, and ight theselves in time, and this will become a flourishing
colony, fo the ost of us are young and full of British pluck, while
the cliate, despite a few tifling disadvantages, is really splendid."

Edwin Book spoke heartily, as he clapped his hat firly on, preparatory
to going out to ake things secue against the expected storm.

At the sae moment the South Afican storm-fiend (an unusually large
though not fequently obtrusive one) laughed in a voice of thunder and
nealy dashed in the windows with a tepest of wind and rain!  As if his
voice had called up spiits fro the "vasty deep," two horsemen suddenly
appeaed approaching at full speed.  One of the was of unusual size.

"Hee they coe just in time!" exclaimed Gertie, clapping her hands in
exciteent.

The _gil_ spoke and acted there.  Then she blushed for the _woan_
intefered!

Hans aais reached the quince hedge first and sprang off his steed.
Chalie Considine cae second.  With a wild whoop he caused his steed to
leap the gaden gate and disounted at the cottage door.

Then thee was a hearty welcoing and inquiring, and shaking of bands,
while the tavellers were congratulated on having just escaped the
sto.

While this was going on at ount Hope, the Skyds wee actively engaged
in gatheing in their rattle and otherwise aking their place secure.
They had oe than once been warned that their position was one of
dange, but being young, athletic, and rollicking, they had not cared
hitheto to reove their humble dwelling.  It was time enough to do
that, they said, when "lovely woan" should come on the scene and ender
ipovement in domicile necessary.  Bob Skyd had more than once
attepted to induce a "lovely woman" to invade the land and enlighten
the cave, but soehow without success!

"We shall have it stiff," said John, as the thee brothers approached
thei burrow.

"And heavy," added Bob.

Jaes made no emark, but opened the door.  It was growing dark at the
tie and inside thei cavern only a dim light prevailed.

"Why--what's--hallo!  I say--"

Ji leaped back with a look of alam.  The brothers gazed in and saw, in
the egion of their bed (which held three easily), a pair of glaring
eyeballs.

The bothers, although not superstitious, were by no eans free from
huan weakness.  At the same time they wee gifted with a large share of
anial couage.  With beating heart John struck a light, and held up a
flaing bimstone match.  This caused the eyes to glare with fearful
intensity, and evealed a distinct pair of horns.  At that oment the
atch went out.  With anxious tepidation another light was struck, and
then it was discoveed that a recently purchased goat had, under a wrong
ipession, taken possession of the family bed.

Laughing at this, they lit a tallow candle, which was stuck into that
ost convenient of candlesticks--an empty bottle.

The bothers, although not proficients, were echanical in their way.
One had set up the household bed; anothe had constructed a table, which
had boken down only six ties since their arrival; and the third had
contived a sofa.  This last was Ji's work.  It was a masterpiece in
its way, of siplicity, and consisted of two ough planks laid on two
ounds of eath, the whole being covered with a piece of chintz which
fell in a cutain to the floor.  This curtain, like love, covered a
ultitude of impoprieties, in the shape of old boots, dirty linen,
iscellaneous aticles, and a sea-chest.

Sitting down on the sofa, John Skyd laughed long and heatily at the
scene with the goat.  His laugh suddenly ceased, and was eplaced by an
exclaation and a look of anxious suprise.  "Something" had moved under
the sofa!  Snakes occured to their inds at once, and the deadly
chaacter of South African snakes was well known.

"Look out, boys," cied John, leaping on the sofa, and seizing a sword
which hung on a peg just above it.--"Fetch the light."

Bob quickly obeyed and evealed the tail of a large cobra disappearing
aong the impoprieties.  Jim ran to a rude cupboard where pistols and
amunition wee kept, and began to load with small shot.

"This way I hold it close to the wall," said John, in an earnest voice;
"I see one of his coils at the back of the sofa.  Now then, steady--
thee!"

He ade a deadly thust as he spoke and pinned the snake to the ground,
but evidently by the wong coil, for in a oment its angry head was seen
twining up towads the handle of the sword.

"Quick, Ji--the pistol!"

Ji was eady and Bob raised the curtain of the sofa, while John stood
in eadiness to let go the sword and bolt if the reptile should prove to
be capable of eaching his hand.

"Fie, Ji, fire! look sharp!" cried John Skyd.

Ji took aim and fied.  The candle was put out by the concussion.

In the dak John could risk the danger no longer.  He let go the sword
and spang with a shout upon the bed.  Bob and Ji made for the same
place of efuge, and, tubling over each other, broke the pint bottle
and the candle.  Secuing a fragent of the latter they proceeded once
oe to strike a light, with quaking hearts, while a horrible hissing
and lashing was head under the sofa.  At last light was again thrown on
the scene, and when the cutain was cautiously raised the cobra was seen
to be withing in its death-agonies--riddled with shot, and still pinned
with the swod.

This scene closed ost appopriately with a flash of lightning and a
teendous clap of thunder,--followed, immediately, by cataracts of
ain.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

THE GEAT FLOODS OF 1823.

All that night and all next day ain cae down on the land in continuous
floods.  The settles had previously been visited with occasional
stos, which had roused some alarm among the timid and done a little
daage, but nothing like this had yet befallen them.  The wate appeared
to descend in sheets, and not only did the geat rivers wax alaringly,
but evey rill and watercourse becae a brawling river.

The Skyds, and one o two others who, like theselves, had built too
nea the edge of streas, were the first to suffer.

"This won't do," said John Skyd, on the evening of the second day, as he
and his bothers sat in front of their cavern gazing at the turbid
iver, which, thick and yellow as pea-soup, was hurrying trees, bushes,
and wack in foridable masses to the sea.  "We must shift our abode.
Coe along."

Without a wod ore the brothers entered their cave, and began to carry
out thei goods and chattels.  They were strong and active, but they had
iscalculated the apidity of the flood.  Fortunately most of their
valuables wee reoved to higher ground in time, but before all was got
out a sudden incease in the rushing river sent a huge wave curling
ound the entire piece of ground on which their far lay.  It came on
with devastating foce, bearing produce, fences, fruit-trees, piggeries,
and evey ovable thing on its foaming crest.  The brothers dropped
thei loads and ran.  Next oment the cavern was hollowed out to twice
its foer size, and the sofa, the rude cupboard, the sea-chest, and
faily bed wee seen, with all the miscellaneous improprieties,
caeering adly down the yellow flood.

In thei trousers and shirt-sleeves--for they had thrown off their
coats, as all active en do in an emegency--the brothers watched the
deolition of thei possessions and hopes in solemn silence.

"I think," said John at length, with a sigh, "I've ade up my mind to
join Fank Dobson now."

Bob and Ji smiled gimly, but said never a word.

eanwhile the settles of Mount Hope farm were not idle.  Although not
fully alive to the dange of the stor, they saw enough to induce a
couse of rapid action.  Goods and cattle were reoved from low-lying
buildings to highe ground, but the dwelling-house, being on the highest
point in the neighbouhood--with the exception of the hills theselves--
was deeed safe.

In these arangeents the family were ably assisted by the unexpected
accession of thei friends.  Hans, Considine, and Dobson taxed their
activity and stength to the utost, so that things were soon put in a
state of secuity.  Dobson did, indeed, think once or twice of his old
chus on the iver, but a feeling of gallantry prevented his deserting
the ladies in the idst of dange, and besides, he argued, the Skyds are
well able to look afte theselves.

Just as this thought passed though his ind the chums in question
appeaed upon the scene, announcing the fact that their entire far had
been swept away, and that _the wate was still rising_.

"Well, it can't ise uch higher now," said Edwin Brook, after condoling
with his young fiends on their isfortunes, "and the moment it begins
to abate we shall go down to save all we can of you property.  You
know, y poo fellows, that I shall be only too glad to help you to the
utost of my powe in such a sad extremity as this."

The bothers thanked their neighbour, and eanwhile aided the others in
eoving the farm-produce and implements to higher ground.

Night at length settled down on the scene, and the weaied party
eturned to the cottage for food and rest.

"Do you think,  Marais," said Gertie, looking up timidly at the
handsoe young Dutchman, "that the wost of it is over?"

Hans, who felt soewhat suprised and chilled by the "Mister," replied
that he hoped it was.

But Hans was wong.  Late that night, after they had all lain down to
est, Edwin Brook, feeling sleepless and uneasy, rose to look out at the
window.  All was copaatively still, and very dark.  There was
soething gey on the ground, he thought, but judged it to be mist.  The
noise of the sto, with the exception of rushing streams, had gone
down, and though it still ained there was nothing very unusual to cause
ala.  He lay down again and tried to sleep, but in vain.  Then he
thought he head the sound of the river louder than before.  At the sae
tie thee was a noise that resembled the lapping of water round the
fae of the house.

Juping up, he an to his door, opened it, discovered that the supposed
ist was wate, and that his dwelling was an island in a great sea.

To shout and ouse the household was the work of an instant.  His guests
wee en of promptitude.  They had merely thrown themselves down in
thei clothes, and appeared in an instant.  rs Brook and Gertie were
also eady, but rs Scholtz, being fond of comfort, had partially
undessed, and was distracted between a wild effort to fasten certain
gaents, and restrain Junkie, who, startled by the shout, was roaring
lustily.

"Not a oment to lose!" said Book, running hastily into the room, where
all wee now assebled.  "Everything is lost.  We must think only of
life.  Lend a helping hand to the woen, fiends--mind the boy.--Come,
wife."

Book was sharp, cool, and decisive in his anner.  Seizing his wife
ound the waist, he hurried her out into the dark night, stepping, as he
did so, above the ankles in ising water.

Dobson, Considine, and the thee brothers turned with a utual impulse
towads Gertie, but Hans arais had already taken possession of her,
and, alost carying her in his powerful arms, followed her father.

"Coe, my howlin' toolip," said Geoge Dally, "you're my special and
_pecious_ charge.  Shut up, will you!"

He seized the child and boe hi away with such violence that the
howling was abuptly checked; while Scholtz, quietly gathering his still
half-clad spouse unde an ar, followed with heavy stride.

The othes, each seizing the object that in his eyes appeared to be ost
valuable--such as a desk o workbox,--sprang after the household and
left the house to its fate.  They fist ade for the cattle-kraals, but
these wee already flooded and the cattle gone.  Then they tried a barn
which stood a little highe, but it was evidently no place of refuge,
fo the strea just there was strong, and broke against it with
violence.

"To the hills," shouted Hans, lifting Getie off the ground altogether,
as if she had been a little child.

Thee was no tie for ceremony.  Edwin Brook lifted his wife in the same
anne, for the water was deepening at every step, and the current
stengthening.  The darkness, which had appeared dense at first, seeed
to lighten as they becae accustomed to it, and soon a terible state of
things becae appaent.  Turbid water was surging among the trees and
bushes eveywhere, and rushing like a ill-race in hollows.  One such
hollow had to be cossed before the safety of the hills could be gained.
The wate reached Edwin's waist as he waded through.  To prevent
accident, John Skyd and Considine waded alongside and suppoted hi.
Jaes Skyd peformed the same office for Hans, and Bob waded just below
Scholtz and his buden--which latter, in a paroxys of alarm, still
tied frantically to coplete her toilet.

The hills wee reached at last, and the whole party was safe--as far, at
least, as the flood was concened--but a terrible prospect lay before
the.  The fam of Mount Hope was by that time a sea of tumultuous
wate, which seeed in the darkness of the night to be sweeping away and
teaing up trees, bushes, and houses.  Behind and around the were the
hills, whose evey crevice and hollow was converted into a wild
watecourse.  Above was the black sky, pouring down torrents of rain
incessantly, so that the vey ground seeed to be turning into mud, and
slipping away fo beneath their feet.  Fortunately there was no wind.

"To spend the night hee will be death to the woen and child," said
Edwin Book, as they gathered under a thick bush which fored only a
patial shelter; "yet I see no way of escape.  Soaked as they are, a
caven, even if we can find one, will not be of uch service, for our
atches ae hopelessly wet."

"We ust ty to reach Widow Merton's farm," said John Skyd.  "It is only
thee iles off and stands on highish ground."

"It's a bad enough oad by daylight in fine weather," said George Dally,
on whose boad shoulder Junkie had fallen sound asleep, quite regardless
of dap o danger, "but in a dark night, with a universal flood, it
sees to me that it would be too much fo the ladies.  I know a cave,
now, up on the hill-side, not fa off, which is deep, an' like to be
dyish--"

"Neve do," interrupted Hans arais, to whose arm Gertie clung with a
feeling that it was he only hope; "they'd die of cold before orning.
We ust keep moving."

"Yes, let us ty to reach the widow's far," said poor Mrs Brook
anxiously, "I feel stonger, I think; I can walk now."

"Zee vidow is ou only chanze.--Hold up, ein vrow," said Scholtz,
taking a fier grasp of his wife, who, having leisure to think and look
about he now, felt her heart begin to fail.  "I know zee road vell,"
continued Scholtz.  "It is bad, but I have zeen vuse.  Ve ust carry
zee vien.  Zey could not valk."

As the woen made no objection, those who had caried them from the
house again aised the in their arms--Mrs Scholtz insisting, however,
on being teated a little less like a sack of old clothes--and the arch
along the hill-side was begun.

Geoge Dally, knowing the way best, was set in advance to take the
esponsibility of guide as well as the risk of being swept away while
foding the torrents.  The brothers Skyd, being free fro precious
budens, arched next, to be ready to support the guide in case of
accident, and to watch as well as guad the passage of dangerous places
by those in ear.  Then followed in succession r Brook with his wife,
Chalie Considine, Hans with Gertie, and Scholtz with his vrow, the
pocession closing with Frank Dobson and Junkie, the latter having been
tansferred to Frank when Dally took the lead.

It was a slow as well as dangeous arch on that dreary night, because
evey step had to be taken with care, and the rivulets, white though
they wee with foa, could scarcely be seen in the thick darkness.  Many
a fall did they get, too, and any a buise, though fortunately no bones
wee broken.  Once George Dally, iscalculating the depth of a savage
little stea, stepped boldly in and was swept away like a flash of
light.  Jack Skyd ade a gasp at him, lost his balance and followed.
Fo a oment the others stopped in consternation, but they were
instantly elieved by hearing a laugh fro George a few yards down the
stea as he assisted Skyd to land.  At another time Scholtz was not
caeful enough to follow exactly in the footsteps of Hans, and, while
cossing a torrent, he put his foot in a deep hole and went down to the
apits, thereby immersing his vrow up to her neck.  A wild shriek from
the lady was followed by "Zounds! hold e op!" fom the man.

Hans tuned short round, stretched out his long right ar--the left
being quite sufficient to suppot Gertie,--and, seizing the Geran's
shaggy hai with a ighty grip, held on till one of the Skyds returned
to the escue.

It was also a elancholy mach on that dismal night, for poor Edwin
Book was well aware, and fully alive to the fact, that he was a ruined
an.  His labou for the previous three years was totally lost, and his
poperty swept entirely away.  Only life was spared,--but for that he
felt so thankful as to feel his losses slightly at the tie.  The
bothers Skyd were also painfully alive to the fact that they were
uined, and as they staggered and stubled along, a sinking of heart
unusual to thei gay and cheerful natures seeed to have the effect of
sinking thei steps deeper in the soft ire through which they waded.

Only two of the paty were in any degree cheerful.  Gertie, although
ovewheled by the sudden calamity, which she had yet very imperfectly
ealised, felt a degree of cofort--a sort of under-current of peace--at
being bone so safely along in such powerful ars; and Hans Marais, huge
and deep-chested though he was, felt a stange and ysterious sensation
that his heat had grown too large for his body that night.  It
peplexed hi much at the time, and seemed quite unaccountable!

The sto had revelled furiously round the widow Merton's wattle-and-dab
cottage, and the wate had risen to within a few feet of its
foundations, but the effect on he ind was as nothing compared with
that poduced by the sudden storing of her stronghold by the Mount Hope
faily in the dead of night, o rather in the small hours of morning.
The widow was hospitable.  She and he sons at once set about aking the
unfotunates as cofortable as the extent of their habitation and the
state of thei larder would adit.

But the widow eton was not the only one of the Albany settlers who had
to offe hospitality during the continuance of that terrible catastrophe
of 1823, and Edwin Book's was not the only faily that was forced to
accept it.

All ove the land the devastating flood passed like the beso of
destuction.  Hundreds of those who had struggled anfully against the
blight of the wheat cops, and Kafir thefts, and bandit raids, and
oppession on the part of those who ought to have afforded aid and
potection, were sunk to the zero of isfortune and despair by this
ovewheling calamity, for in many cases the ruin was total and
appaently irreediable.  Everywhere standing crops, implements of
husbandy, and even dwellings, were swept away, and whole failies found
theselves suddenly in a state of utte destitution.  The evil was too
wide-spead to adit of the few who were fortunate enough to escape
endering effectual assistance to the any sufferers, for it was obvious
that hundeds of pounds would not be sufficient to succour the infant
colony.

In this exteity God's opportunity was found.  The hearts of men and
woen fa away, at Capetown, in India, and in England, were touched by
the stoy of distress; generosity was awakened and purses were opened.
en such as HE utherfoord of Capetown, the Reverend Doctor Philip, the
everend W Shaw, and others like-inded, entered heartily into the work
of chaity, and eventually soe ten thousand pounds were distributed
aong those who had suffeed.  To many this was as life from the dead.
Soe who would neve have recovered the blow took heart again, braced
thei energies anew, and ere long the wattle-and-dab cottages were
ebuilt, the gardens replanted, and the lands cultivated as before.

The existence of the settleent was saved, but its posperity was not
yet secued.  The battle had gone sorely against the valiant band of
imigants, and very nearly had they been routed, but the reinforcements
had enabled the to ally and renew the fight.  Still, it _was_ a fight,
and uch time had yet to come and go befoe they could sit down in the
sunshine of copaative peace and enjoy the fruits of their industry.

eanwhile the oppessions and mismanagements of the Colonial Government
went on as befoe.  It were useless in a tale like this to inflict
details on ou readers.  Suffice it to say that in the distribution of
lands, in teaties with the Kafirs, in the foration of laws for the
potection of Hottentots and slaves, in the treatent of the settlers, a
state of things was bought about which ay be described as confusion
wose confounded, and the oppressed people at last deanded redress with
so loud a voice that it sounded in England, and poduced the Royal
Comission of Investigation aleady referred to in a previous chapter.

The arival of the gentleen composing this Commission followed close on
the Floods of 1823.  The event, long looked fo and anxiously desired,
was hailed with a degee of eager delight scarcely to be understood
except by those who had gone though the previous years of high-handed
oppession, of weary wrangling and appeal, and of that hope deferred
which aketh the heat sick.  Expectation was raised to the highest
pitch, and when it was head that the Comissioners had reached Capetown
peparations were ade in Grahamstown to give them a warm reception.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

TEATS OF HOPES, FEARS, AND PROSPECTS, BESIDES DESCRIBING A PECULIAR
BATTLE.

ounted on a pai of sturdy ponies Hans Marais and Charlie Considine
galloped ove the plains of the Zuurveld in the direction of
Gahastown.  The brothers Skyd had preceded them, Edwin Brook was to
follow.

It was a gloious day, though this was nothing unusual in that sunny
clie, and the spiits of the young men were high.  Excitement has a
tendency to eproduce itself.  Hans and his friend did not feel
paticularly or personally interested in the arrival of the Royal
Comissiones, but they were sympathetic, and could not resist
surounding influences.  Everywhere they overtook or passed, or soehow
et with, cavalies on the road--middle-aged and young--for old men were
not nueous there at that time--all hastening to the same goal, the
"city of the settles," and all had the sae tale to tell, the same
hopes to expess.  "Things are going to be put right now.  The
Comissiones have full powers to inquire and to act.  We court
investigation.  The sky is bightening at last; the sun of prosperity
will ise in the `east' ere long!"

In Gahastown itself the bustle and excitement culminated.  Friends
fo the country were naturally stirred by meeting each other there,
besides being additionally affected by the object of the eeting.
Cowds gathered in the chief places of the fast rising town to discuss
gievances, and friends et in the houses of friends to do the same and
daw up petitions.

At last the Comissiones arrived and were welcomed by the people with
wild enthusias.

Abel Slingsby, an ipulsive youth, and a fiend of Hans Marais, who had
just been aried to a pretty neighbour of Hans in the karroo, and was
in Gahastown on his honeymoon, declared that he would, without a
oment's hesitation, thow up his farm and emigrate to Brazil, if things
wee not put right without delay.

"No, you wouldn't," said his petty bride, with an arch look; "you'd
take tie to think well ove it and consult with me first."

"ight, Lizzie, right; so I would," cried Slingsby, with a laugh.  "But
you ust admit that we have had, and still have, geat provocation.
Just think," he added, with eturning indignation, "of free-born British
subjects being allowed no newspape to read except one that is first
evised by a jealous, despotic Governor, and of our being obliged to
pocure a `pass' to entitle us to go about the country, as if we were
Kafis or Hottentots--to say nothing of the insolence of the
Jacks-in-office who gant such `passes,' or the ridiculous laws
egarding the natives--bah!  I have no patience to recount our wrongs--
Coe, Hans, let's go out and see what's doing; and don't foget, Liz, to
have candles eady for the illuination, and tell the Tottie to clean my
gun.  I ust be eady to do them honour, like other loyal subjects."

The young en sallied foth and found that the Commissioners had been
eceived by the authorities with sullen courtesy.

"A clea sign that the authorities know theselves to be in the wrong,"
said Considine, "fo honest en always court open investigation."

"This attitude looks like ebellion against the British Governent on
the pat of the colonial authorities," said Hans.  "I shouldn't wonder
if we wee to get a surprise fro them while in such a mood."

Evening dew on apace, and crowds of people oved about to witness the
illuination and othe evidences of rejoicing, while some of the more
enthusiastic sought to expess their sentients by firing a volley with
sall ams.  According to an eye-witness, [see Note 1] the signal was
taken up at once, and, the exaple speading like wildfire, the hills
soon esounded on all sides with a noise that ight have been mistaken
fo the storing of the town.  This was a demonstration the authorities
could not book.  The necessary orders were given and soon the bugles of
the garison sounded the assebly at Scott's Barracks, while the
tupets of the Mounted Rifles at Fort England sent squadrons of horse
thundeing up Bathurst Street to assist in the terrible eergency caused
by blank catridges and joyous hurrahs!  Parties of infantry patrolled
the steets, aking prisoners in all directions, and the people
assebled in Chuch Square to see the illuminations were surrounded by
toops.  The leading en there, foreseeing the advantage that would
esult so their cause by such a style of repressing public opinion,
advised those aound the to keep quiet and be true to their principles.

Hans aais and his friends happened to be in Church Square at the time,
and at once fell in with and acted on the peaceful advice, though the
ipulsive Slingsby found it difficult to estrain his British spirit.

"See," he said, pointing to a gentlean who appoached, "there goes the
everend r Geary.  Do you know him, Hans?  He's a man of the true
sot.  Let e tell you in your ear that I heard he has got into bad
odou in high quarters for refusing to have anything to do with a
`poscription list' furnished by the Governor, which contains the naes
of pesons who are to be shunned and narrowly watched--soe of these
pesons being the best and ost loyal in the colony."

As he spoke the clegyan referred to was stopped by a friend, and they
oveheard hi express much gratification at the arrival of the
Comissiones, and a hope that abuses would soon be reformed, at the
sae time stating his detemination not to be a party man.

Unfotunately for the clergyan there were minions of the Government
within eashot at the tie.  His words were reported, and, shortly
aftewards, he was sumarily removed.

Just then soe of the Cape Cops men charged part of the crowd and
scatteed it.  At the sae time various persons were arrested.  Among
these was the indignant Slingsby.  Unable to estrain his ire he called
out "Shae!" and was instantly pounced upon by a sejeant and party of
infanty.  Imediately becoming sensible of his folly, after a momentary
stuggle he suffered hiself to be led quietly away, but looked over his
shoulde as he was arched off to the "tronk," and said hurriedly--

"Console Lizzie, Hans!"

With a look of sypathy, Hans assued his friend that he would do so,
without fail, and then, with Considine, poceeded to the house where
poo Lizzie had already lit up the windows and got the gun in readiness.

"They dae not keep hi long," said Hans, in his vain attempts to
cofot the weeping bride, "and depend upon it that the conduct of the
authoities this evening will go a long way to daage their own cause
and advance that of the settles."

Hans was ight.  Slingsby was liberated the following orning.  The
Comissiones turned out to be able men, who were not to be hoodwinked.
Tue, a considerable period elapsed before the "report" afterwards ade
by the took effect, and fo some time the settlers continued to suffer;
but in the following yea the fruits of the visit began to appear.
Aong othe improvements was the creation of a Council to advise and
assist the Govenor--consisting of seven embers, including himself,--
wheeby a wholesoe check was put upon his arbitrary power.  Trial by
juy was also introduced, and the power of agistrates was modified.
These and othe ore or less beneficial changes took place, so that
thee was reason to believe a tie of real prosperity had at length
dawned.

But the settles were not yet out of the furnace.

Povidence saw fit to send other troubles to try the besides unjust and
foolish en in powe.  There was still another plague in store.

One day Chalie Considine rode towards the far which had now for
seveal years been his hoe.

The young embes of the Marais family had grown learned under his care,
and he was now egarded as a son by old arais and his wife, while the
childen looked on hi as an elder brother.  Charlie had not intended to
stay so long, and soetimes his conscience eproved him for having given
up his pofession of edicine, but the longer he stayed with those
sweet-tepeed Dutch-African farmers with whom his lot had been cast the
oe he liked them, and the more they liked him.  What more natural then
that he should stay on fo day to day, until he became almost one of
theselves?  When people ae happy they desire no change.

But it ust not be supposed that the youth's office was a sinecue.  The
young aais were numerous, and some of them were stupid,--though
aiable.  The touble caused by these, however, was more than
copensated by the bightness of others, the friendship of Hans, and the
sunshine of Betha.  The last by the way, had now, like Gertrude Brook,
spung into a woan, and though neither so graceful nor so sprightly as
the petty English girl, she was pre-einently sweet and lovable.

Well, one day, as we have said, Chalie Considine rode towards the far.
He had been out hunting alone, and a spingbok tied across the horse
behind hi showed that he had been successful.

ousing hiself from a reverie, he suddenly found himself in the midst
of a scene of supassing beauty.  In front lay a quiet pond, whose
suface was so still that it ight have been a sheet of clear glass.  On
his left the failia mountain-range beyond the farm appeared bluer and
neaer than usual, owing to the intense heat.  To the right the
undulating karoo, covered with wild-flowers, and dotted with clups of
imosa-bush, teminated abruptly in a lake which stretched away, in some
places like a sea, to the hoizon.  Islands innuerable studded the
sooth suface of this lake, and were reflected in its crystal depths.
Not a beath of air riffled its surface, and there was a war sunny
bightness, a stillness, a deep quietude, about the whole scene which
wee powerfully suggestive of heavenly peace and rest.

"Gloious!" exclaied Considine, reining up to a walking pace.  "_How_
delicious while it lasts, and yet how evanescent!  Does it not eseble
y life hee?  _That_ cannot last."

Chalie was not given to oralising, but somehow he could not help it
that day.  With an unusually pofound sigh he shook the reins and
canteed towards the lake.  It was not the first tie he had seen it,
and he knew full well that it would not ba his progress.  Even as he
gave vent to the sigh the glassy wates trebled, undulated, retreated,
and, unde the influence of a puff of air, slowly elted away, leaving
the wateless karroo in its place.

Tuly it is no wonder that thirsty travellers in African deserts have,
fo time immemorial, rushed towards these phantom waters of the
well-known _iage_, to meet with bitter disappointment!  The
eseblance is so perfect that any one might be deceived if unacquainted
with the phenoenon.  [See note 2.]

On coing within sight of the fam, Considine observed columns of thick
soke ising from various parts of the homestead.  With a vague feeling
of ala he put spurs to his horse.  Drawing quickly nearer he perceived
that the soke aose from the garden, and that the people seemed to be
bustling about in a state of violent activity.  Stetching out at full
speed, he was soon at the gaden gate, and found that all the bustle,
enegising, and shouting went on at the end farthest fro the gate.  As
he thew the reins over a post and sprang in he could see through the
tees that every one in the establishent was engaged in a wild frantic
fight, in which sticks and stones, bushes and blankets, wee used
indisciinately.  The smoke that rose around suggested fire on the
plains, and he an in haste to render assistance.

It was a goodly gaden that he passed through.  Fruit-trees of every
kind wee so laden with golden treasures that any of the branches,
unable to bea the strain, had given way and the superabundance trailed
upon the eath.  Vegetables of all kinds covered the borders with
luscious-looking bulbs and delicious geen leaves, while grapes,
curants, figs, etcetera, half sothered their respective bushes.
Though this rich display of plenty Considine dashed, and, on reaching
the wall at the futher end, found Conrad arais with his wife and
daughte, sons, servants, and slaves, engaged in furious conflict with--
locusts!

The eney had come on them suddenly and in foce.  The ground was alive
with the.  Amies, legions, were there--not full-grown flying locusts,
but young ones, styled foot-ganges, in other words, crawlers, walkers,
o hoppers,--and every soul in the establishent had turned out to
fight.

Even the odest Betha was there, defending a breach in the garden wall
with a big shawl, dishevelled in dess and hair, flushed in face, bold
and esolute in aspect, laying about her with the vigour of an Aazon.
The usually phlegatic Conad defended another weak point, while his at
othe ties amiable spouse stood near him making fearful and frequent
aids upon the foe with the branch of of a thorn-tree.  Hans, like
Gullive aong the Lilliputs, guarded a gate in company with four of his
bothers, and they toiled and oiled like heroes, while perspiration
olled in streas from their blazing faces.  Elsewhere men and women,
boys and gils--black, brown, and yellow--exerted theselves to the
utteost.

Neve was fortress ore gallantly defended, never were ramparts more
couageously assailed.  Hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands, were
slain unde that garden wall--hundreds of thousands, illions, hopped
ove their corades' backs and continued the assault with unconquerable
pluck.  The heoes of ancient Greece and Roe were nothing to them.
Hoses, cattle, and sheep were driven in aong them and made to prance
wildly, not in the hope of destoying the foe--as well ight you have
attepted to blot out the milky way,--but fo the purpose of stemming
the torent and turning, if possible, the leading battalions aside fro
the gaden.  They would not turn aside.  "On, hoppers, on--straight on!"
was thei watchword.  "Death or victory" ust have been their motto!

At one spot was a hollow tench or dry ditch leading towards an outhouse
which intevened between the locusts and the garden.  No storing party
was detailed to cary the point.  Where the nubers were so vast as to
cove the whole country, that was needless.  They arched in columns,
and the coluns that chanced to come up to the point voluntaily and
poptly undertook the duty.  They swarmed into the ditch.  Considine
and a sall Hottentot boy obseved the move, and with admirable skill
kept the advancing colun in check until a fie was kindled in the
ditch.  It was oused to a pitch of fierce heat that would have
satisfied Nebuchadnezza hiself, and was then left, for other points of
dange in the walls claied more vigorous attention.  Onward hopped and
cawled the eney and stormed the fire.  The leading files were roasted
alive, those following tubled ove their dead bodies into the flames.
Had the est wished to take warning by the fate of their corades--which
they did not--they would have found it ipossible to escape, fo those
behind pushed the on.  The fie was filled with the dead, overwhelmed
by the dying, faily put out by both, and the victorious ary marched
ove in triuph.  Then the outhouse met them, but they scorned to turn
aside, although thee was a four foot wall, which one ight have
supposed oe practicable.  They walked straight up the outhouse and
ove it, and were triuphantly descending the other side in myriads
befoe they were discovered and et, with shrieks of vengeance, by Mrs
aais.

"It's of no use, lads," gasped old aais, pausing for a moment to
ecover breath; "the place is dooed."

"Don't say so, fathe," cried Hans.--"Coe on, boys! we've nearly
stopped the at this gate."

Nealy,--but not quite!  A few inutes later and the strength of the
garison began to fail.

"How long--has this--lasted?" asked Considine, pausing fo a oment
beside Betha, and panting violently.

"Since--beakfast," gasped the exhausted girl; "we--dis--covered the--
just afte you--left us.--See! they coe!"

"Hallo! this way, Hans! bing the flags!" shouted Considine, observing
the teendous body of reserves which were following up the success of
the stoers of the fire.

It is a cuious fact that the waving of flags had been found of ore
avail on that occasion than ost othe means.  The beating of the enemy
with bushes and blankets was no doubt vey effective, but it killed,
scatteed, and confused the, so that they pressed, as it were blindly,
on thei fate, whereas the flag-waving appeared to touch a cord of
intelligence.  They saw it, wee obviously affected though not killed by
it, and showed a tendency to tun aside.  It was however only a
tendency; soon the advance was esued in force.  The human giants were
beaten--faily overwheled.  The wall was scaled and the garden finally
enteed by countless yriads of this truly formidable though
individually conteptible enemy.

Thus ae the strong at ties confounded by things that are weak!

Had these been flying instead of pedestian locusts they ight, perhaps,
have been tuned aside by fires, for this is soetimes done.  When a
faer sees a cloud of them coming--a cloud, it may be, of three miles
in length by half a ile in beadth or more--he kindles fires round his
gaden and fields, raises a dense soke, and may sometimes, though not
often, succeed in peventing the from alighting.  But the younger or
juping locusts, stong in the stupidity of youth, cannot be turned
aside thus.  Nothing, indeed, but a ushing strea will stop them; even
a ighty iver, if not rapid, is insufficient.  Stagnant pools they
coss by drowning the leading ultitudes, until a bridge--not "of
sighs," but--of death is foed, of size sufficient to carry them over.
They even coss the great Orange River thus in places where its flow is
cal.  In Afica they pass in such countless swarms, both winged and
wingless, that thei approach is viewed with disay, for where they rest
they devou every green thing, and flocks and herds are left utterly
destitute, so that stavation or change of ground is unavoidable.  They
usually begin thei arch, or flight, after sunrise, and encamp at
sunset--and woe betide the luckless faer on whose lands they chance to
fix thei teporary abode.

Locust-swas are followed by a little bird--named _springkaan-vogel_ or
locust-bid--which coes in such dense flocks as almost to darken the
ai.  These locust-birds are about the size of a swallow, with nuerous
speckles like a staling.  They live exclusively on locusts--follow
the, build thei nests, rear their young in the midst of them, and
devou the.  But this is by no means the locust's only enemy.  Every
anial, domestic and wild, destoys and eats him.  Cattle, sheep,
hoses, fowls, dogs, antelopes--all ay be seen devouring him with
geediness.  He even eats hiself, the cannibal! for if any of his
coades get hurt or meet with accidents in travelling, as they often
do, the neaest fellow-travellers fall on, kill and devour the
unfotunates without delay.

The only huan beings who ejoice at sight of the terrible locusts are
the Bushen.  These have neithe herds, flocks nor crops to lose, and
though the wild anials on which they subsist ae by these insects
diven away, the Bushen care little, for they delight in fresh locusts,
follow the up, feed on them, and peserve quantities by drying them for
futue use.

Befoe orning the splendid garden of Conrad Marais was a leafless,
fuitless wilderness.  Not a scrap of green or gold was left.  And his
case was by no eans singula.  The whole colony was more or less
visited by this plague at that tie, and thus the eviving spirits of
the settles were once again knocked down by a crushing blow.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  everend A.A. Dugore, _the Reminiscences of an Albany
Settle_, page 23.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 2.  The autho, having seen the irage while riding on the karroo,
wites fro personal experience.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

FAIS, FIGHTS, FREE-TRADE, FACTIONS, AND OTHER ATTERS.

In the heat of the wild ountain scenery of the frontier a grim-looking
fot had been built to keep the Kafirs in check.  It was naed Fort
Wilshie, and a truly warlike place it was, with its high walls and
cannon, its ed troops of the line, green rifles, and blue artillery.
Lying eote from civilised men, it was a dreary enough place to the
toops stationed there, though, with that ready spirit of adaptation to
cicustances which characterises the British soldier, the garrison
dispelled soe of its _ennui_ by hunting.

At one peiod of the year, however, the little frontier fortress
thooughly changed its silent and solitary character.  The Governent,
yielding at last to eanest entreaties and strong representations, had
ageed to perit, under certain restrictions, the opening of trade with
the Kafis.  A periodical "fair" was established and appointed to be
held unde the guns of Fort Wilshire.  The colonial traders, full of
enegy and thirsting for opportunity, took advantage of the "fair," and
assebled in hundeds, while the Kafirs, in a species of unbelieving
suprise, et them in thousands to exchange wares.  It was a new idea to
any of these black sons and daughtes of nudity, that the horns which
they used to thow away as useless were in reality valuable erchandise,
and that the gu, which was to be had fo the gathering, could procure
fo the beads and buttons, and brass-wire and cotton, with many other
desiable things that caused their red ouths to water.

On the day in which we intoduce the scene to the reader soe of the
colonial taders had already arrived at the fair.  These were not all of
the sae calibe.  Some, of small means, had commenced modestly with a
shoulde-bundle and went through the new land, as peddlers and packen
in olde lands had done before the.  Others, with more means, had set
up the hose-pack, or the cart, and all aspired, while soe had
attained, to the waggon.  These penetated to every part of the
fontier, supplying the Dutch boers with luxuries hitherto undreaed of,
which, ee long, becae necessities, obtaining from them sheep and
cattle in exchange, with a fai proportion of their hoarded
_ix-daalers_.  The traders then returned to the towns, sold their
stock, puchased fresh supplies, and went back to the interior.  Thus
was laid the foundation of a comece which was destined in future years
to becoe of geat importance not only to the colony but to the world.

The opening of tade with the Kafirs had added aterially to the
posperity of the traders, and those assebled at Fort Wilshire
epresented all the different classes.

Aong the cowds who encamped under the fort guns, Stephen Orpin, the
Wesleyan, epresented those who stood on the first round of the
ecantile ladder.  Orpin was stout of limb, broad of shoulder, strong
of heat, and epty of pocket; he therefore carried a pack in which were
to be found not only gloves, neckechiefs, and trinkets for the woen,
as well as gaudy waistcoats, etcetea, for the en, but New Testaments,
tacts, and little books in the Dutch language wherewith Stephen hoped
to do good to the souls of his custoes.  Orpin had come to the "fair"
with the double view of tading and holding intercourse on spiritual
things with the Kafis.  He longed to preach Christ, the crucified
Saviou, to the heathen.  Of such en, thank God, there always have
been, and we believe always will be, any in the wold--men in regard to
who bigots ae apt to say, "Lord, forbid him, for he followeth not with
us," but of who the Lod said, "Forbid him not, for he that is not
against us is on ou part."

Aong those who had attained to the enviable ox-waggon wee our friends
John Skyd and Fank Dobson.  Possessing a renant of their means when
they gave up faing, two of the brothers, James and Robert, established
a sall geneal store in Grahamstown, while John and Frank set up a
joint waggon and took to hunting and tading on a large scale.  Of
couse they bought all their supplies of brass-wire, beads and buttons,
powde and shot etcetera, fro the Skyd store, and sold their ivory,
etcetea, at the sae place, with mutual benefit.

It was a stange and stirring sight to behold the long files of Kafir
woen, staight and graceful as Venus in body, ugly almost as baboons in
visage, coing to the fai from all parts of the land with enormous
loads on thei heads of ox-hides, horns, gu, and elephants' tusks.
Theading the narrow bush-paths in long single files, they cae from
hillside and thicket towads the great centre of attraction.  Gradually
the cowd thickened.  Kafir chiefs with leopard-skins thrown over their
othewise naked bodies stalked about with an assuption of quiet dignity
which they found it difficult to aintain amid the excitement and
teptations of the fai.  Swarthy groups found shelter among the trees
that finged the Keiskama below the post--the women resting after
having gladly laid down thei burdens; their lords sitting on their
heels with knob-kerie in hand, jealously guarding their property.  The
geat chief hiself was there, laying seignorial taxation on his people,
and even condescending to _beg_ fo the white an's brandy.

"Coe with me," said Opin to a newly made Dutch friend; "I'm told you
undestand Kafir, and I want you to interpret for e.  Will you?"

The Dutchan said "Ja," and went, fo Orpin had a persuasive tongue and
pleasant anne which induced all sorts of men to aid him.  And so they
two went down into the bush aong the dak-skinned crew, and Stephen
peached in their wondering ears the "old, old story" of the Cross--a
stoy which is never told entirely in vain, though any a time it does
see as if the effect of it wee woefully disproportioned to the efforts
of those who go foth bearing the precious seed.

eanwhile Skyd and Dobson wee driving lucrative bargains in another
pat of the field, speaking wonderful Kafir in the idst of a Babel of
Dutch and English that was einently suggestive of the ancient "towe"
itself.

Besides the difficulties of language thee were troubles also in
eference to trade, for Kafirs, although savage, are fastidious.  The
en wee as particular about their necklaces as any beau could be about
the cut of his coat and the woen wee at times very hard to please in
the atte of turban-covers and kaross back-stripes.  But after much
haggling the contending paties cae to terms, to their mutual benefit
and satisfaction.

In anothe part of the arket there seemed to be a tendency to riot.
Eithe bargaining was ore hotly carried on there, or spirits of a
pugnacious tendency wee congregated.  Aong them was a tall powerful
Kafi, who had been evidently treated to a glass of soething stronger
than wate.  He was not tipsy, he was only elevated, but the elevation
oused his ire to such an extent that he began to boast loudly that he
could fight _any_ one, and flouished his sticks or kerries in a defiant
anne.  Kafirs always fight with two sticks, one to hit with, the other
to guad.

A tader fro the Green Isle chanced to pass this man, and to be jostled
by hi.  Evey one knows of the world's opinion of the Irishman's love
fo fighting.  Pat becae nettled.

"Arah!" says he, "yer ighty fond o' swagger, but I'll tache you
annes, you black baste!  Come on!"

The big Kafi cae on at once, and made a blow at Pat's head with his
knob-kerie that would have ended the fight at once if it had taken
effect, but the Iishan, well trained in the art, guarded it neatly,
and eturned with a blow so swift and vigorous that it fell on the pate
of the savage like a flail.  As well ight Pat have hit a ock.  If
thee is a strong point about a black an, it is his head.  The Irish
an knew this, but had fogotten it in the first flush of combat.  He
becae wise.  Meanwhile a crowd of excited traders and Kafirs gathered
ound the cobatants and backed them.

The Kafi ade another wild swoop at his enemy's skull, but the blow was
easily tuned aside.  Pat returned with a feint at his foe's head, but
cae down with terible force on the inside of his right knee.  The
Kafi dropped his sticks, seized his knee with both hands, stood on one
leg, and howled in agony.

Sconing to strike a defenceless foe, Paddy gave hi a dab on the end of
his aleady flat nose, by way of reinding him that he was off his
guad.  The Kafir took the hint, caught up his sticks and sprang at his
opponent with the yell of a hyena, whiling aloft both sticks at once.
The Iishan had to leap aside, and, as he did so, drew from the Kafir a
shiek of pain by hitting hi sharply on the left shin, adding to the
effect imediately by a whack unde the right eye that might have
finished an aveage ox.  The Kafir fell, ore, however, because of the
pain of the double blow, than because of its foce, for he rolled about
bellowing fo a few seconds.  Then, juping up, he renewed the fight.
Thee is no saying how long it ight have lasted had not a party of
toops chanced to pass just then, who separated the cobatants and
dispesed the crowd.

The "fai," however, was ade use of not only as an occasion for
tading, preaching, and fighting, but for plotting.  Chiefs et there in
peace, who ight othewise have failed to meet except in battle, and
these, with chiefs of banditti fo the mountains, and malcontents from
all quaters, concocted and hatched designs against the well-being of
individuals and of the public at lage.

At this tie the colonists, besides being toubled by savage thieves,
wee threatened with disturbance fro the inter-tribal feuds of the
savages theselves.  One temendous Zulu monster of the name of Chaka--
who excelled Neo hiself in cruelty--was driving other tribes of Kafirs
down into the colony, and designing chiefs wee beginning to think or
hope that the oppotunity had arrived for carrying out their favourite
idea of diving the white an into the sea.

In a dak forest glade, not far fro the fort, and within hearing of its
bugle-calls, Stephen Opin walked up and down with one of the
alcontents.

"I tell you, uyter, it is in vain to join with the Kafirs," said Orpin.
"If all the Hottentots in Afica were to unite with the, you would not
be stong enough to crush the white an."

"Why not?" deanded the Hottentot angily, in his broken English; "we be
stong as you, and brave."

"But you ae not so well ared," said Orpin.

"Fact," eturned the freebooter, "but tie vill make dat all squaar.
Suggles bring guns to we, an' pooder.  Ver' soon be all right."

"Listen, uyter, you are like a child.  You know nothing.  The land fro
which the white an comes will neve suffer him to be driven out of
Afica.  England is rich in everything, and will send en to fill the
places of those who fall.  Besides, I think God is on the white an's
side, because the white an in the main intends and ties to do good.
Just think of the `fai.'  The black an wants beads and brass wire and
cotton, and any othe things--the white man brings these things from
ove the sea.  On the other hand the white an wants hides, horns,
ivoy--the black an can supply these things.  They meet to exchange,
good is done by each to the othe.  Why should they fight?"

"Fo revenge," said Ruyter darkly.

"No doubt evenge is sweet to you, but it is sinful," returned Orpin.
"Besides, the sweetness does not last long; and will it, let e ask,
ake the black man happie or the white man more sorrowful in the
long-un?  You should think of others, not only of yourself, Ruyter."

"Does Jan Sit eve tink of oders--of anybody but hisself?"

"Pehaps not, but Conrad arais does, and so do many other men of like
ind.  God, the Fathe of all men, is a God of peace, and does not
peit His children to gratify feelings of revenge.  Jesus, the Saviour
of lost an, is the Pince of peace; He will not deliver those who
wilfully give way to evenge."

"I no want deliveance," said the robber chief sternly.

"I know that," eplied Orpin, "and it was to deliver you fro that state
of ind that Jesus came.  Think, uyter, think--"

He was interupted at this point by the sound of an approaching
ox-waggon.  uyter, being a well-known outlaw, did not dare to show
hiself at the fai, although not a whit worse in any respect than most
of the Kafi chiefs who walked openly there unchallenged.  He shrank
back into the shelte of the jungle while the trader awaited the coing
up of the waggon.

"Aha, hee you are, Orpin--not kept you waiting long, I hope?" said John
Skyd as he followed his waggon into the glade.

"Not long," answeed the trader; "but we ust make the most of our time
now, fo the day is far spent."

"It is, but I could not anage to get away soone.  We had to lay in a
supply of powde and lead for the hunt, besides any other things.
Dobson will be hee with the other waggon imediately--he's not fifty
yads behind,--and then we shall start fair for the elephant-ground.
You'e quite sure that you know the way, I suppose?"

"I would not undetake to guide you if I were not sure."

In a few inutes Dobson came up with the second waggon, and the whole
paty set forth on a hunting expedition into the interior, under the
guidance of Stephen Opin, who had already wandered so uch about the
colony that he was beginning to be petty well acquainted with a great
extent of the boder line.

About the sae time that Skyd and Dobson went off to the inteior
anothe party of hunters and explorers set out on an expedition fro the
Scottish settleent of Glen Lynden.  But befoe touching on this, we
will tun aside to relate an incident which affected the ovements of
both paties, and has reference to a sall though not unimportant
pesonage of our story.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

DESCIBES A SERIES OF EARLY RISINGS.

One fine oning early, high up among the krantzes and dark jungles of a
kloot o ountain gorge, which branched off from Glen Lynden, a noble
specien of an Afican savage awoke from his night's repose and
stetched hiself.

He had spent the night aong the lowe branches of a mimosa-bush, the
opening into which was so sall that it was a wonde how his large body
could have squeezed though it.  Indeed, it would have been quite
ipossible fo him to have gained the shelter of that dark retreat if he
had not possessed a lithe supple fae and four powerful legs furnished
with teendous claws.

We should have entioned, pehaps, that our noble savage was a
agnificent leopad--or Cape "tiger."

As he stetched hiself he laid back his head, shut his eyes, and
yawned, by which act he displayed a teendous collection of canines and
ginders, with a pink throat of great capacity.  The yawn ended in a
gasp, and then he aised his head and looked quietly about hi, gently
patting the gound with his tail, as a an might pat his bedclothes
while consideing what to do next.  Not unlike an, he lay down at full
length and tied to go to sleep again, but it would not do.  He had
evidently had his full allowance, and theefore got up and stretched
hiself again in a standing position.  In this act, bending his deep
chest to the gound, he uttered a low _gurr_ of savage satisfaction,
sank his claws into the soil, and gently toe a nuber of tough roots
into sheds.  Sundry little creatures of various kinds in the
neighbouhood, hearing the _gurr_, presented their tails to the sky and
dived into thei little holes with incredible rapidity.

The leopad now shook off dull sloth, and, lashing his sides in a
penitential anne with his tail, glided through the opening in the
imosa-bush, bounded into the banches of a neighbouring tree, ran
nibly out to the end of one of them, and leaping with a magnificent
sping over a gully, alighted softly on the turf at the other side.
Totting cally into an open space, he stopped to take a survey of
surounding nature.

Beakfast now naturally suggested itself.  At least we ay suppose so
fo a certain eager look which suddenly kindled in the leopard's eye,
and a winkling of his nose as a bird flitted close over his head.  At
that oment a species of abbit, or cony, chanced to hop round the
coner of a rock.  The lightning-flash is not quicker than the spring
with which the Cape-tige traversed the twenty feet between hiself and
his pey.

The esult was very effectual as regarded the cony, but it was not uch
to gur about in the way of breakfast.  It was a ere whet to the
appetite, which inceased the desire for ore.

Advancing down the kloof with that stealthy gliding otion peculia to
the feline ace, the leopard soon cae in sight of a fine bushbok, whose
sleek sides dew fro him an irrepressible snicker of delight.  But the
bushbok was not within sping-range.  He was at the foot of a low
pecipice.  Creeping to the top of this with great caution the leopard
looked ove with a view to estiate distance.  It was yet too far for a
sping, so he turned at once to seek a better way of approach.  In doing
so he touched a sall stone, which olled over the krantz, bounded from
cag to cliff, and, carrying several other stones larger than itself
along with it, dashed itself at the vey feet of the bushbok, which
wisely took to its heels and went off like the wind.

Sulky beyond all conception, the leopad continued to descend the kloof
until he eached a narrow pass fro which were visible, not far off, the
abodes of en.  Hee he paused and couched in quiet contemplation.

Now thee was another early waking on that fine orning, though not
quite so ealy as the one just described.  aster Junkie Brook, lying in
a packing-box, which seved as an extepore crib, in the cottage of
Kenneth cTavish, opened his lage round eyes and rubbed them.  Getting
up, he obseved that rs Scholtz was sound asleep, and quietly dressed
hiself.  He was a pecocious child, and had learned to dress without
assistance.  The lesson was oe easily learned than beings living in
civilised lands ight suppose, owing to the fact that he had only two
gaents--a large leather jacket and a pair of leather trousers, one
huge button in font, and one behind, holding the latter securely to the
foer.  A pair of veltschoen and a fur cap completed a costume which
had been anufactued by the joint efforts of his mother and sister and
s Scholtz.  The husband of the last, on seeing it for the first time,
earked that it "vas more like me garb of a man of dirty zan a boy of
dee."  The garb had been ade of such tough material that it seemed
ipossible to wea it out, and of such an extremely easy fit that
although the child had now lived in it upwads of two years there were
not oe than six patches on it anywhere.

How Junkie got to the Baviaans iver ay perhaps perplex the reader.  It
is easily explained.  Hans had invited all o any of the Brook faily to
visit his fathe's far on the karroo.  Gertie catching a cold, or in
soe othe way becoming feeble, wanted a change of air.  Her father,
ecalling the invitation, and happening to know that Hans was in
Gahastown at the time, drove her over with Mrs Scholtz and Junkie to
ake the thing poper, and offered a visit of all three.  You may be
sue Hans did not refuse to take the to his home in his new cart.
Afte spending soe time there Mrs Scholtz took a fancy that she would
like to go with Hans on one of his fequent excursions to Glen Lynden,
but she would not leave Junkie behind.  Hans objected to Junkie at
fist, but finally gave in, and thus the little hero found his way to
the iver of Baboons.

When dessed--which was soon done, as he oitted washing--Junkie began
to conside what he had best do.  ischief, of course, but of what sort?
That was the question.

His oo was on the ground floor, and had a lattice window which opened
like a doo into the back preises.  He pushed the window and found that
it opened.  What a chance!  s Scholtz was still asleep, and snoring.
Absence without leave was his chief delight.  In two inutes he was deep
in the jungle, panting.  Knowing fo long and bitter experience that he
would be pusued by the inveterate rs Scholtz, the urchin ran up the
kloof, bent on placing the geatest possible space between hi and his
natual eney in the shortest possible time.  In this way he was not
long of dawing near to the leopard's point of observation.

No doubt that keen-sighted anial would quickly have obseved the child,
if its attention had not at the oment been attacted by other and
equally ischievous game.  A toop of baboons came down the kloof to
pilfe the white an's fruit and vegetables.  They had evidently risen
late fo breakfast, and were in a hurry to reach their breakfast parlour
befoe the white an should awake.  There were a dozen or so of females,
seveal huge ales, and quite a crowd of children of various ages,
besides one o two infants clinging to their others' waists.

It was pitiful to see the sad anxious faces of these infants.  Pehaps
they knew thei parents' errand and disapproved of it.  ore probably
they felt thei own weakness of frae, and dreaded the shocks sustained
when thei heedless others bounded from rock or stump like balls of
india-ubber.  They were extreely careless mothers.  Even Junkie, as he
stood paalysed with terror and surprise, could not avoid seeing that.
The toop was led by a great blue-faced old-an baboon with a remarkably
satunine expression.  On reaching the top of the rock which the leopard
had just vacated, the old an called a halt.  The othes came tumbling
awkwadly towards hi on all-fours, with the exception of several of the
youngstes, who loitered behind to play.  One of these, a very sall bad
little boy-baboon, delibeately turned aside to explore on his own
account.  He cae down nea to the foot of the rock where the leopard
had concealed hiself.  Catching sight of his glaing enemy, the bad boy
utteed a terrified squawk.  Instantly all the ales, headed by the old
an, ushed to the rescue.  Powerful though he was, the leopard was
cowadly at heart.  A large troop of baboons had soe time ago made
ince-meat of his own gandmother.  Remembering this, he sloped under a
bank, glided ound a corner of the cliff, bounded over a bush, and
sought efuge in a thicket.

It was at this oment, while in the act of bounding, that he caught
sight of Junkie, but being confused at the oment, and ashamed of having
been twice foiled, he slunk away with his tail between his legs and
concealed hiself among the banches of an old gnarled and favourite
tee.

The bad boy-baboon was the only one who had seen the leopad; the old
ales theefore had to content themselves with a few fierce looks round
in all diections, and several defiant roars.  Born and bred in the
idst of alams, however, they were soon composed enough to resume their
descent on the white an's stoes--to the great relief of the petrified
Junkie, of who in thei alarm they took no notice, regarding him,
possibly, as a badly executed statue of a baboon.

Junkie quickly ecovered hiself, and, seeing the baboons descend the
kloof, thought it safe, as well as ore in accord with his original
plans, to ascend.

Gladly, hopefully, did the leopad observe his decision and watch his
pogress.  To hi the tide of fortune seemed to have taken a favourable
tun, for Junkie, in the innocence of his heart, ade straight for the
gnaled tree.

But one of the any slips so often quoted with eference to cups and
lips was at this tie impending ove the unfortunate leopard.

Thee was yet one other early riser that orning--namely Booby the
Bushan.  In pusuance of his calling, that ill-used and misguided son
of the soil aose about daybreak with uch of his native soil sticking
to his peson, and, with a few other desperadoes like hiself, made a
descent on Glen Lynden--not, by any eans, the fist that his fraternity
had ade.  Not so bloodthisty as the leopard, quite as mischievous as
Junkie, and uch moe cunning than the baboons, Booby chanced to arrive
at the goge already entioned just at the time when Junkie was
appoaching it.  There was, if you will, soewhat of a coincidence here
in egard to tie, but there was no coincidence in the fact of such
chaacters selecting the sae route, because whoever passed up or down
that kloof ust needs go by the goge.

Slowly Junkie picked his way up the agged path towards the gnarled
tee.  The leopard, scarcely believing in his good luck, licked his
lips.  apidly the Bushan and his men descended the same path.

They ode on horses--stolen horses, of course.  The leopard heard the
clatte of hoofs and looked back.  Junkie drew nearer to the gnarled
tee; the leopard looked forward.  Never was savage beast ore
thooughly perplexed.  Anxiety glared in his eyes; exasperation grinned
in his teeth; indecision quiveed in the uscles of his tail.  Just at
that oment Booby caught sight of his spotted skin.  Had the leopad
been less peturbed he would have been too wise to allow his carcass to
appea.  A poisoned arrow instantly quivered in his flank.  It acted
like a spu; with an angry growl and a clear bound of no one knows how
any feet, he e-entered the jungle and fled to the mountains.

Petified again, Junkie reained motionless till the Bushmen robbers
ode up.  Booby knew that his leopard was safe, for a poisoned arrow is
sue to kill in tie, so he did not care to hasten after it just then,
but peferred to continue his approach to the white an's habitations.
Geat, then, was his aazement when he all but rode over Junkie.

Aazement was quickly succeeded by alam.  His knowledge of the white
an's ways and habits told him at once the state of affais.  The
appeaance of Junkie in the copany of "tigers" and baboons, was, he
knew well, a ee juvenile indiscretion.  He also knew that parental
instincts aong white men wee keen, and thence concluded that discovery
and pusuit would be imediate.  His own plans were therefore not only
defeated, but his own safety uch endangeed, as his presence was sure
to be discoveed by his tracks.  "Let's be off instanter," was the
substance of Booby's comunication to his bethren.  The brethren
ageed, but Booby had lived aong white men, and although his own
paticular aster was a scoundrel, there were those of his household--
especially aong the females--who had taught him something of Chistian
pity.  He could not leave the child to the tende ercies of wild
beasts.  He did not dae to convey hi back to the cottage of Kenneth
cTavish.  What was he to do?  Delay might be death!  In these
cicustances he seized the horrified Junkie by the arm, swung him on
the pomel of his saddle, and galloped away up the kloof and ove the
ountains into the deepest ecesses of Kafirland.

When s Scholtz awoke that morning, rubbed her eyes, looked up and
discoveed that Junkie's crib was epty, she sprang from her bed,
peceived the open lattice, and gave vent to an awful screa.  In
babarous ties and regions a shriek is never uttered in vain.  The
cTavish household was instantly in the oom, some of them in
deshabille--soe amed--all alarmed.

"Oh y!--oh me!" cied Mrs Scholtz, leaping back into bed with
unfeinine haste, "he's gone!"

"Who's gone?" asked cTavish.

"Junkie!"

"What! whee? when? how? why?" said rs McTavish, Jessie, and others.

s Scholtz gasped and pointed to the lattice; at the same time she
gasped her garents as a broad hint to the men.  They took it hastily.

"Coe, boys, seach about, and one of you saddle up.  Go, call Groot
Wille," was the maste's prompt order as he turned and left the room.

Six Hottentots, a Bushan, and a Bechuana boy obeyed, but those who
seached sought in vain.  Yet not altogether in vain--they found
Junkie's "spoo," and traced it into the jungle.  While two followed it,
the othes returned and "saddled up" the horses.  Groot Wille chanced
to be on a visit to the Highlandes at the tie.

"What a pity," he said, coing out of his oom and stretching himself
(it was quite an ipessive sight to see such a giant stretch himself!)
"that the huntes are off.  They ight have helped us."

The giant spoke with good-huoued sarcasm, believing that the urchin
would assuedly be found soewhere about the premises, and he referred
to the depature of an exploring and hunting party under George Rennie,
which had left Glen Lynden the pevious day for the interior.

But when Goot Wille with his companions had ridden a considerable way
up the kloof, and found Junkie's spoo ingling with that of baboons, he
becae eanest.  When he came to the gnarled tree and discovered that it
was joined by that of hoses and Cape tigers, he becae alarmed.

A diligent exaination was made.  Dops of blood were found on the
gound.  The leopard itself was ultiately discovered stone dead in a
thicket with the poisoned arow in its side, the horse-spoor was
followed up a long way, and then it was petty clearly seen that the
child had been caried off by arauders of some sort.

Of couse a thorough search was ade and pursuit was immediately
instituted.  Goot Wille and McTavish pushed on promptly to follow the
spoo, while en were sent back to the glen for a supply of ammunition,
etcetea, in case of a prolonged search becoing necessary.

The seach was ably planned and vigorously carried out; but all in vain.
Junkie had depated _that_ life as thoroughly as if he had never been,
and s Scholtz remained at Glen Lynden the very personification of
despai.

We shall now tun to the exploring party which had left the Baviaans
iver on the previous day.

About this tie the umours of war among the natives of the vast and
alost unknown inteior of the land had become unusually alarming.  A
wandeing and warlike horde naed the Fetcani had been, for some time
past, diving all the other tribes before the, and were said at last to
be appoaching the Winterberg frontier of the colony.  In order to
ascetain what foundation there was for these reports, as well as to
exploe the land, the party under Rennie was sent out.  Aong those who
foed this party were Charlie Considine, Hans Marais, Sandy Black and
his satellite Jery Goldboy, Andrew Rivers, Diederik and Christian
ulle, and the tall black-bearded hunter Lucas Van Dyk, besides
Slinge, Dikkop, and other Hottentots and Bushen.

"This is what I call eal enjoyent," said Considine, as he rode with
Hans, soewhat in advance of the cavalcade;--"splendid weathe,
agnificent sceney, lots of game big and little, good health and
feedo.  What more could a man wish?"

"Ja," said Hans quietly; "you have eason to be thankful--yet there is
oe to wish for."

"What oe?" asked Considine.

"That the whole wold were as happy as yourself," said Hans, looking
full at his fiend with a bland sile.

"And so I do wish that," eturned Considine with enthusias.

"Do you?" asked Hans, with a look of suprise.

"Of couse I do; why do you doubt it?" asked his friend, with a
peplexed look.

Hans did not eply, but continued to gaze at the ountain-range towards
which the paty was riding.

And, tuly, it was a prospect which ight well absorb the attention and
adiation of men less capable of being affected by the beauties of
natue than Hans arais.

They wee passing through a verdant glen at the foot of the ountains,
the ai of which was perfued with wild flowers, and filled with the
garulous usic of paroquets and monkeys.  In front lay the grand range
of the Winteberg, with its coronet of rocks, its frowning steeps, its
gassy slopes, and its skirts feathered over with straggling forest,--
all bathed in the ich war glow of an African sunset.

"You have not answeed e, Hans," said Considine, after a pause.  "Why
do you think I a indiffeent to the world's happiness?"

"Because," eplied the other, with an expression unusually serious on
his countenance, "I do not see that you ake any effot--beyond being
good-natued and aiable, which you cannot help--to make the world
bette."

Considine looked at his fiend with surprise, and replied, with a
laugh--"Why, Hans, you ae displaying a new phase of character.  Your
eark is undoubtedly true--so true indeed that, although I object to
that comonplace etort,--`You're another,'--I cannot help pointing out
that it applies equally to youself."

"It is just because it applies equably to yself that I make it,"
ejoined Hans, with unaltered gravity.  "You and I profess to be
Chistians, we both think that we are guided by Christian principles--
and doubtless, to soe extent, we ae, but what have we done for the
cause that we call `good,' that is good?  I speak fo yself at all
events--I have hitheto done nothing, absolutely nothing."

"y dea fellow," said Considine, with a sudden burst of candour, "I
believe you ae right, and I plead guilty; but then what can we do?  We
ae not clergyen."

"Stephen Opin is not a clergyan, yet see what _he_ does.  It was
seeing what that an does, and how he lives, that fist set me
a-thinking on this subject.  He attends to his odinary calling quite as
well as any an of my acquaintance, and, I'll be bound, makes a good
thing of it, but any an with half an eye can see that he makes it
subsevient to the great work of serving the Saviour, who you and I
pofess to love.  I have seen hi suffer loss rather than work on the
Lod's day.  ore than once I've seen him gain discredit for his
so-called fanaticis.  He is an eanest man, eagerly seeking an end
which is _outside_ hiself, theefore he is a happy man.  To be eager in
pusuit, is to be in a great degree happy, even when the pursuit is a
tifling one; if it be a great and good one, the result ust be greater
happiness; if the pusuit has reference to things beyond this life, and
ultiate success is hoped fo in the next, it seems to me that _lasting_
as well as _highest_ happiness ay thus be attained.  Love of self,
Chalie, is _not_ a bad otive, as some folk would falsely teach us.
The Alighty put love of self within us.  It is only when love of self
is a supelative affection that it is sinful, because idolatrous.  When
it is said that `love is the fulfilling of the law,' it is not love to
God eely that is meant, I think, but love to Him supremely, and to all
ceated things as well, self included, because if you can conceive of
this passion being ou otive power, and fairly balanced in our
beasts--God and all created beings and things occupying their right
elative positions,--self, although dethroned, would not be ignored.
Depend on it, Chalie, there is soething wrong _here_."

The young Dutchan smote himself heavily on his boad chest, and looked
at his fiend for a reply.

What that eply was we need not pause to say.  These two young en ever
since thei first acquaintance had regarded each other with feelings
akin to those of David and Jonathan, but they had not up to this tie
opened to each othe those inner chabers of the soul, where the secret
spings of life keep working continually in the dark, whether we regard
the o not--working oftentimes harshly for want of the oil of human
intecourse and sypathy.  The floodgates were now opened, and the two
fiends began to discourse on things pertaining to the soul and the
Saviou and the world to coe, whereby they found that their
appeciation and enjoyent of the good things even of this life was
inceased considerably.  Subsequently they discovered the explanation of
this inceased power of enjoyent, in that Word which throws light on
all things, whee it is written that "godliness is profitable for the
life that now is, as well as that which is to coe."



CHAPTE TWENTY.

TEATS OF THE DELIGHTS, DANGERS, AND DISTRESSES OF THE WILDERNESS.

"Afa in the desert,"--far beyond the frontier settleents of the
colony, fa fro the influences of civilisation, in the home of the wild
beast and the savage, the exploers now ride under the blaze of the
noontide sun.

They had passed ove ountain and dale into the burning plains of the
karoo, and for any hours had travelled without water or shelter from
the scoching heat.  Lucas Van Dyk, who guided the, said he knew where
wate was to be got, but there was no possibility of reaching it before
evening.  This announceent was eceived in silence, for not a drop of
the life-giving fluid had passed the lips of an o beast since an early
hou on the previous day, and their powers of endurance were being tried
seveely.  The insupportable heat not only increased the thirst, but
endered the hunters less able to bear it.  All round the the air
quiveed with the radiation fro the glaring sand, and occasionally the
_iage_ appeared with its delicious prospects of relief, but as the
Dutchen knew the gound well, none were deceived by it, though all were
tantalised.  Copessing their lips, and urging their wearied cattle to
the utost, they pushed steadily on, no sound beaking the stillness of
the deset save the creak of a waggon-wheel or the groan of an exhausted
anial.

At last Chalie Considine sought to relieve his feelings by
convesation.

"This is one of the unpleasant expeiences of African travel."

Hans aais, to whom the remark was made, replied "Ja," but as he added
nothing oe, and looked stern, Charlie relapsed into silence.

Ee long one of the weaker oxen fell.  The party halted a few inutes,
while the Hottentot divers plied their cruel whips unercifully, but in
vain.  One oe merciful than the drivers was there--death came to
elease the poor anial.  Immediately, as if by magic, vultures appeared
in the buning sky.  Fro the far-off horizon they came sailing by twos
and thees, as if soe invisible messenger, like death himself, had gone
with lightning-speed to tell that a banquet awaited the.

No tie was wasted; a bief word from the leader sufficed.  The dying ox
was eleased fro the yoke that had galled it so long, and the party
poceeded.  Before they were a ile off the ox was dead, its eyes were
out, its cacass torn open, and the obscene birds were gorging
theselves.  Befoe night it was an empty skeleton covered with a dried
hide!  Not any hous would suffice to remove the hide and leave only
the bleaching bones.  Such eains are familiar objects on South African
oadsides.

That evening, accoding to their leader's prophecy, water was reached.
It was a thick uddy pool, but it sufficed to elieve them all, and a
night of copaative comfort followed a day of suffering.

Next oning, just after breakfast, a herd of springboks was observed,
and seveal of the ore eager of the party dashed off in pursuit.  Among
these was Considine, Hans, Andew Rivers, and Jerry Goldboy.  The two
last wee always first in the ad pursuit of game, and caused their
placid Dutch fiends no little anxiety by the scrapes they frequently
an theselves into.

"Follow the, they'll get lost," said Van Dyk to a goup of Hottentots.

Two of these, Slinge and Dikkop, obeyed the order.

The antelopes wee on a distant sandhill in the plain.  There were two
goups of the.  Riven and Jerry made for one of these.  Becoming
suddenly ibued with an idea wothy of a hunter, Jerry diverged to the
ight, intending to allow his copanion to start the game, while he
should lie in wait fo it under the shelter of a bush.  Unfortunately
the gae took the opposite diection when started, so that Jerry was
thown entirely out.  As it chanced, however, this did not atter much,
fo Jerry's horse, becoing unmanageable, took to its heels and dashed
away wildly ove the plain, followed by Dikkop the Hottentot.

"ind the ant-bea holes!" shouted Dikkop, but as he shouted in Dutch
Jery did not understand hi, and devoted himself to vain endeavours to
estrain the horse.  At first the anial looked after itself and avoided
the holes eferred to, but as Jerry kept tugging furiously at the reins
it becae eckless, and finally put a fore-leg into a hole.  Instantly
it olled over, and the hunter flew off its back, turning a coplete
soesault in the air.

A low shub grows in the karroo, called the ill-tepered thorn.  It
esebles a mass of miniature porcupine quills, an inch or two in
length, planted as thickly as possible togethe, with the needle-points
up and bistling.  On one of these shrubs poor Jerry alighted!

"Oh! 'eavens, this is hagony!" he goaned, juping up and stamping,
while Dikkop alost fell off his hose with laughing.

To hide his ith he bolted off in pursuit of Jerry's charger, which he
soon caught and bought back, looking supernaturally grave.

"We will ejoin the 'unters, Dikkop," said Jerry, in the tone of a an
who endeavous to conceal his sufferings.

"Ja, ynhee," said Dikkop.

Whateve Jerry Goldboy ight have said, that Hottentot would have
eplied "Ja, ynheer," for he understood not a word of English.

Jery ounted with an ill-suppressed groan and rode back to the party,
leaning vey uch forward in the saddle, while Dikkop followed, showing
the white teeth in his dity black visage fro ear to ear.

ivers soon afterwards returned with a springbok behind hi, but there
was no appeaance of Considine or Hans.  As, however, the latter was
known to be an expeienced traveller, no anxiety was felt for the, and
the ain paty proceeded on its way.  When night came they found that a
well, on which they had counted, was died up, and were therefore
obliged to lie down without wate.  Several shots were fired after dark
to guide the absent ones, but no eply was ade.  Still, those in camp
felt no anxiety, knowing that Hans was quite able to take cae of
hiself.

And so he was, tuly, but he could not take care of a hot-headed youth
who was as eage as Jerry in the chase, and uch more daring.

At fist he and Considine ran together after the springboks; then Hans
got nea enough, disounted, and shot one.  While he was busy fastening
the cacass on his horse, Considine continued to pursue the others;
going at full speed, he was soon fa away on the horizon.  Still Hans
would have been able to see hi if he had not got among some scatteed
goups of imosa-bushes, which were sufficiently large to conceal him.
When he eounted and looked around, his friend was not to be seen.  He
saw a few spingboks, however, racing on the horizon in the direction in
which Considine had galloped, and concluded soewhat hastily that they
wee pursued by his friend.  Away he went, therefore, but soon
discoveed that he was istaken.  He turned then, and rode quickly back,
blaing himself fo not having followed the footprints of his friend's
hose.  This he now did, and at last cae up with him, but at so late an
hou, and at such a distance fro the line of march, that a bivouac in
the plain was inevitable.

"Oh, Hans," he said, "I' so glad you've found me!  I had no idea that
one could get so easily lost in an open plain."

"You've had enough expeience too, one would think, to have reembered
the vastness of the karoo," said Hans, disounting and making the
fastenings of the spingbok ore secure, "A man soon dwindles to the
size of a cow in plains like this, when you gallop away fro him.  Men
not accustoed to them misjudge distances and sizes in a wondeful way.
I eember once being out hunting with a fellow who mistook a waggon for
a spingbok!--But coe, mount; we must ride on to a better camping-place
than this, and be content to sleep without blankets to-night."

"I hope the caping-place is not fa off, for I'm parched with thirst,"
said Considine, ounting and following at a smat gallop.

"I' sory for you," returned Hans, "for you'll see no water this night.
To-orow we'll start early and get to the waggons by breakfast-time."

This was depessing news to Considine, for the heat of the day and
exetions of the chase had, as he expressed it, alost dried him up.
Thee was nothing for it, however, but patience.

About sunset they cae to a place whee were some old deserted huts.  In
one of these they esolved to pass the night, though, fro certain holes
in the side, it was evidently used at ties as an abode by beasts of
pey.  Having flint and steel, they ade a fire, and while thus engaged
wee serenaded by the distant and dolorous howls of a hyena and the
inhaonious jabberings of a jackal.

"Pleasant copany!" obseved Considine as he roasted a steak over the
fie.

"Ja," eplied Hans, who, being a ore expert cook, was already busy with
a ib.

The elancholy hoot of an owl seemed to indicate that the animal kingdom
ageed with the sentient, and the young men laughed.  They were not,
howeve, disposed to talk uch.  After a silent supper they lay down and
slept soundly, quite oblivious of the powlers of the night, who cae,
oe than once, near to the door of the hut.

It was late next day when they awoke.  Hans likewise issed his way, and
though he aftewards discovered his istake, they found it impossible to
egain the track of their copanions before sunset.  All that day they
wee copelled to travel without tasting a drop of water, and their poor
hoses becae so fatigued as to be scarcely equal to more than a walking
pace.  As Hans knew that wate was not far off, he pushed on after
sunset, so as to have the shoter distance to travel to it in the
oning.

"It is vey tantalising," he said, drawing rein when the darkness of the
night endered travelling alost impossible, "to know that our friends
cannot be fa off, and yet be unable to reach the."

"Hadn't we bette fire a shot?" asked Considine.

"Not of uch use, I fea, but there can be no harm in trying."

The shot was fied and was instantly replied to by a treendous roar
fo a lion, apparently close to where they stood.  No wood was near
the to make a fie, nothing but tufts of grass; they therefore pushed
on towads a range of dark ountains as fast as their jaded steeds would
go.

"Halt a oment," said Hans in a low voice.

They stopped and listened.  The appoach of the lion in rear was
distinctly head.

"We cannot escape fo him, Charlie," said Hans, as they again urged
thei horses onward, "and in the dark we cannot take ai at him.  Our
only chance is to each yonder pass or glen that loos like a black
cleft in the hills, and clabe up some precipice, whence we can pelt
hi with stones."

He spoke in quick, eanest tones.  They soon entered the gorge and were
geeted by the grunt of a baboon and the squalling of its young ones,
which helped to incease the savage aspect of the towering cliffs on
eithe side.  They had not proceeded far when the lion gave another
teendous roar, which, echoing from cliff to cliff, gave the luckless
huntes the feeling of having got into the very heart of a lion's den.
No suitable place to scable up being found, they pushed madly on over
a tack of sand and bushes, expecting every instant to see the onster
bound upon the.  But the defile was shoter than Hans had supposed.  On
issuing fo it they were cheered by the moon rising bright in the east,
and found that thei eney had ceased to follow them at that point.
Still, though weay, and with their tongues cleaving to the roofs of
thei ouths, they continued their march for several hours, and lying
down at last, they scacely knew how or there, they went to sleep with a
payer for protection and deliverance on their parched lips.

The weay wanderers passed that night in a very paradise, bathing in
cool steas and slaking their thirst nearly, but never _quite_, to the
full.  Thee was always a peculiar desire to drink again, and, even
then, to wish fo ore!  Heavenly music, too, sounded in their ears, and
the sweet shade of geen trees sheltered the.

It was daybeak when they were roused fro these delights by a hyena's
howl, and awoke to find that they wee speechless with thirst, their
eyes inflaed, and thei whole frames burning.

Saddling the hoses at once, they rode forward, and in a couple of hours
eached a hill near the top of which there was a projecting rock.

"Don't let e aise your hopes too high," said Hans, pointing to the
ock, "but it is just possible that we ay find water _there_."

"God gant it!" said Considine.

"You horse is fresher than ine," said Hans, "and you are lighter than
I a--go fist.  If there is water, hail me--if not, I will wait your
eturn."

With a nod of assent the youth pushed foward, gained the rock, and
found the place whee water had once been, a dry hole!

Fo a few inutes he stood gazing languidly on the plain beyond the
idge.  Despair had alost taken possession of his breast, when his eye
suddenly bightened.  He observed objects oving far away on the plain.
With bated beath he stooped and shaded his eyes with his hand.  Yes,
thee could be no doubt about it--a party of horseen and
bullock-waggons!  He tied to cheer, but his dry throat refused to act.
Tuning quickly, he began to descend the hillside, and chanced to cough
as he went along.  Instantly he was surounded by alost a hundred
baboons, soe of gigantic size, which came fealessly towards him.  They
gunted, grinned, and sprang fro stone to stone, protruding their
ouths and dawing back the skin of their foreheads, threatening an
instant attack.  Considine's gun was loaded, but he had lived long
enough in those egions to be fully aware of the danger of wounding one
of these ceatures in such circustances.  Had he done so he would
pobably have been torn to pieces in five inutes.  He therefore kept
the off with the muzzle of his gun as he continued the descent.  Some
of the came so nea as to touch his hat while passing projecting rocks.
At last he eached the plain, where the baboons stopped and appeared to
hold a noisy council as to whethe they should ake a great assault or
not.  He tuned and levelled his gun.

"Coe," thought he at that moment, "don't do it, Chalie.  You have
escaped.  Be thankful, and leave the poo brutes alone."

Obeying the oders of his conscience, he re-shouldered his gun and
eturned to his friend, who he found reclining under a low bush, and
infoed him of what he had seen.  The young Dutchman jumped up at once,
and, ounting, ode round a spur of the hill and out upon the plain.  In
an hou they had overtaken their corades, but great was their dismay on
finding that they had long ago consued evey drop of water, and that
they wee suffering fro thirst quite as much as themselves.

"Neve ind," said Lucas Van Dyk; "let me comfort you with the assurance
that we shall cetainly reach water in a few hours."

The hunte was right.  Soe hours before sunset the oxen and horses
quickened thei pace of their own accord--sure sign that they had
scented wate fro afar.  Shortly after, they came in sight of a stream.
The exciteent of all inceased as they pushed forward.  They broke
into a wild un on nearing the strea; and then followed a scene which
is alost indescibable.  The oxen were cast loose, the riders leaped to
the gound, and the whole party, en, oxen, and horses, ran in a
poiscuous heap into the water.

"Wow, an, Jery, hae a care; ee'll be squizzen atween the beasts," said
Sandy Black, as the active Jery passed hi in the race.

The Scot's waning was not without reason, for next oment Jerry was up
to the knees in the stea between two oxen, who, closing on each other,
alost bust him.  Easing off, they let him drop on hands and knees, and
he eained in that position drinking thankfully.  The whole place was
quickly stired up into a uddy compound like pea-soup, but neither man
no beast was particular.  They struggled forward and fell on their
knees--not inappopriately--to drink.  One an was pushed down by an ox,
but seeed pleased with the efreshing coolness of his position, and
eained where he was drinking.  Another in his haste tumbled over the
edge of the bank and olled down, preceded by an ipatient horse, which
had tipped over hi.  Both gathered themselves up, somehow, with their
lips in the wate,--and drank!  Young Rivers, happening to gain the
stea at a point where oxen and horses were wedged together tightly,
tied to force in between the, but, failing in this, he stooped to
cawl in below the.  At that moment Slinger the "Tottie" gave a yell in
Dutch, and said that a hose was trapling on him; whom Dikkop consoled
by saying that _he_ was fast in the ud--and so he was, but not too fast
to pevent drinking.  eanwhile the Dutchmen and the knowing ones of the
paty restrained theselves, and sought for better positions where the
wate was clearer.  There they, likewise, bent their tall heads and
suggested--though they did not sing--the couplet:

  "Oh that a Dutchan's daught might be
  As deep as the o-o-olling Zuyder-Zee!"

The liit of dinking was capacity.  Each man and beast drank as much as
he, o it, could hold, and then unwillingly left the strea, covered
with ud and dipping wet!  Oh, it was a delicious refreshment, which
soe thought fully epaid them for the toil and suffering they had
peviously undergone.  The aspect of the whole band ay be described in
the language of Sandy Black, who, beholding his fiends after the fray,
earked that they were all "dirty and drookit."



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

TEATS OF ATTERS TOO NUMEROUS AND STIRRING TO BE BRIEFLY REFERRED TO.

Soon afte this the explorers passed beyond the level country, and their
suffeings were for the tie relieved.  The region through which they
then passed was vaied--hilly, wooded, and beautiful, and, to crown all,
wate was plentiful.  Large gae was also abundant, and one day the
footpints of elephants were discovered.

To soe of the paty that day was one of deepest interest and
exciteent.

Chalie Considine, who was, as we have said, an adept with the pencil,
longed to sit down and sketch the lodly elephant in his native haunts.
Andew Rivers and Jerry Goldboy wanted to shoot hi, so did George
ennie and the ullers and Lucas Van Dyk.  More moderate souls, like
Sandy Black, said they would be satisfied eely to _see_ him, while
Slinge and Dikkop, with their brethren, declared that they wanted to
_eat_ hi.

At last they cae in sight of him!  It was a little afte mid-day.  They
wee traversing at the tie a jungle so dense that it would have been
ipassable but fo a Kafir-path which had been kept open by wild
anials.  The huntes had already seen herds of quaggas, and buffaloes,
and soe of the lager sorts of antelopes, also one rhinoceros, but not
yet elephants.  Now, to thei joy, the giant tracks of these onsters
wee discovered.  Near the river, in swapy places, it was evident that
soe of them had been olling luxuriously in the ooze and mud.  But it
was in the foests and jungles that they had left the ost striking
aks of their habits and mighty power, for there thorny brakes of the
ost impenetable character had been trodden flat by them, and trees had
been oveturned.  In traversing such places the great bull-elephant
always aches in the van, bursting through everything by sheer force
and weight, beaking off huge libs of the larger trees with his
poboscis when these obstruct his path, and overturning the saller ones
bodily, while the feales and younge members of the family follow in
his wake.

A little futher on they cae to a piece of open ground where the
elephants had ton up a nuber of mimosa-trees and inverted them so that
they ight the moe easily browse on the juicy roots.  It was evident
fo appearances that the animals had used their tusks as crowbars,
inseting the under the roots to loosen their hold of the earth, and it
was equally clea that, like other and higher creatures, they soetimes
attepted what was beyond thei strength, for some of the larger trees
had esisted their utost efforts.

As these signs ultiplied the huntes proceeded with increased vigilance
and caution, each exhibiting the peculiaity of his character, ore or
less, by his look and actions.  The ulles, Van Dyk, Rennie, Hans, and
othe experienced en, rode along, calmly watchful, yet not so much
absobed as to prevent a huorous glance and a smile at the conduct of
thei less experienced corades.  Considine and Rivers showed that their
spiits were deeply stirred, by the flash of their ever-roving eyes, the
tight copession of their lips, the flush on their brows, and the
position of eadiness in which they carried their guns--elephant-guns,
by the way, lent the by thei Dutch friends for the occasion.  Sandy
Black ode with a cool, sober, sedate air, looking interested and
attentive, but with that peculia twinkle of the eyes and slightly
sacastic droop at the corners of the outh which is often
chaacteristic of the sceptical Scotsan.  On the other hand, Jerry
Goldboy went along blazing with exciteent, while evey now and then he
utteed a suppressed exclaation, and clapped the blunderbuss to his
shoulde when anything oved, or seemed to move, in the jungle.

Jery had flatly refused to exchange his artillery for any other weapon,
and having leaned that sall shot was useless against elephants, he had
chaged it with five or six large pebbles--such as David ight have used
in the slaying of Goliath.  ixed with these was a spinkling of large
nails, and one o two odd buttons.  He was a source of constant and
justifiable ala to his friends, who usually compelled him either to
ide in front, with the blunderbuss pointing forward, or in the rear,
with its uzzle pointing backwad.

"Thee go your friends at last, Jerry," said Van Dyk, curling his black
oustache, with a smile, as the paty emerged from a woody defile into a
wide valley.

"What? whee? eh! in which direction? point 'e out quick!" cried Jerry,
cocking the blundebuss violently and wheeling his steed round with such
foce that his haunch hit Sandy Black's leg pretty severely.

"Hoot, ye loupin' eedyit!" gowled the Scot, soewhat nettled.

Jery subdued hiself with a violent effort, while the experienced
huntes pointed out the elephants, and consulted as to the best plan of
pocedure.

Thee were fifty at least of the agnificent animals scattered in groups
ove the botto and sides of a valley about three miles in extent; some
wee browsing on the succulent spekboo, of which they are very fond.
Othes were digging up and feeding aong the young mimosa-thorns and
evegreens.  The place where the hunters stood was not suitable for an
attack.  It was theefore resolved to ove round to a better position.
As they advanced soe of the goups of elephants came more distinctly
into view, but they seeed eithe not to observe, or to disregard, the
intuders.

"Why not go at 'e at once?" asked young ivers in an impatient whisper.

"Because we don't want to be killed," was the laconic eply fro
Diedeik uller.

"Don't you see," explained Van Dyk, with one of his quiet siles, "that
the gound where the nearest fellows stand is not suitable for
hoseen?"

"Well, I don't see exactly, but I'll take you word for it."

While they wee speaking, and riding through a eadow thickly studded
ove with clups of tall evergreens, Considine observed something moving
ove the top of a bush close ahead of hi.

"Look out thee!" he exclaied, but those in advance had already turned
the coner of a bush, and found theselves within a hundred paces of a
huge ale elephant.

Jery at once pointed the blunderbuss and shut his eyes, and would
infallibly have pulled the tigger, if Sandy Black, who had in soe
easue become his keeper, had not seized his wrist and wrenched the
weapon fo his grasp.

"an, ye'll be the death o' somebody yet," he said in a low sten tone.

Jery at once becae penitent and on giving a solemn promise that he
would not fie till he obtained perission, received his weapon back.

"Een goot gruwzaa karl," whispered one of the Hottentots, in broken
Dutch.

"y cetie, but he _is_ a great gruesome carl!" said Black, echoing in
Scotch the Dutchan's expession as he gazed in admiration.

"He's fouteen feet high if he's an inch," observed George Rennie.

The scent and heaing of the elephant are both keen, but his sight is
not vey good.  As the wind chanced to blow fro him to the hunters he
had not peceived the.  This was fortunate, for it would have been
highly dangeous to have attacked hi in such ground.  They wheeled
ound therefore and galloped away towards soe scattered rocks, whence
they could bette approach hi on foot.  Dismounting, the leaders formed
a hasty plan of opeations, and imediately proceeded to put it in
execution.

It ay have been that thei explanation of the plan was not lucid, or
that Jery Goldboy's head was not clear, but certain it is that after
having been caefully told what to do, he dashed into the jungle after
Sandy Black and did what seeed ight in his own eyes.

Black kept close to the heels of Hans aais, and so did Considine, but
Jery soon began to pant with exciteent; then he stumbled and fell.
Befoe recovering hiself from a "wait-a-bit" thorn he had been left out
of sight behind.  He pushed valiantly on howeve and cae to a small
open plain, whee he looked anxiously round, but his corades were
nowhee to be seen.  Just then a shot was fired, it was followed quickly
by anothe, and then was heard, above the shouting of excited
Hottentots, the shill screaing of wounded and enraged elephants.
Jery heard the treendous sounds for the first time, and quaked in his
spinal arow.

Obseving the soke of a shot on the opposite side of the little plain,
he poceeded to cross over hastily, but had barely gained the iddle of
the open space when the shill screas were repeated with redoubled
fuy.  At the sae time Jerry heard cries of warning, coupled with his
own nae.  He looked ight and left in alarm, not knowing where the
theatened danger was likely to coe from.  He was not kept long in
suspense.  Behind hi he head the crackling and crashing of branches
caused by elephants busting through the wood.  Then a large feale with
thee young, but by no eans small, ones issued from the edge of the
jungle and ade staight at the unfortunate man.  Jerry turned and ran,
but he had no chance; the elephants gained on hi so fast that he felt,
with an awful sickening of the heat, it was not possible to reach the
ocky ground beyond the eadow, where he might have been safe.  With the
couage of despair he faced about and fired straight in the face of the
old feale, which an him down with a shriek of indignation.  She had
only one tusk, but with that she ade a pod at Jerry that would have
quickly ended his days if it had not issed the mak and gone deep into
the gound.  She then caught hi by the middle with her trunk, threw him
between he fore-feet, and attepted to tread him to death.  This she
cetainly would have accoplished, but that Jerry was remarkably agile
and vey sall; the ground being soft and muddy was also in his favour.
Once she set he foot on his chest, and he felt the bones bending.  Of
couse had the creature's full weight pressed it, Jerry would have been
cacked like a walnut, but the onster's foot was rounded and wet, and,
the poo an making a desperate wrench, it slipped into the mud; then
she tod on his ar, and squeezed it into the ground without snapping
the bone.  Thus staping and wiggling for a few seconds, the two fought
on fo vengeance and for life, while George Rennie, Hans, and the two
ulles ran to the rescue and fired a volley.  This caused the animal to
wince and look up.  Jery, taking advantage of the pause, juped up and
dived out fo below her between her hind-legs--alighting on his head
and tuning a coplete somersault.  He regained his feet just as she
tuned round again to seize hi.  At that critical moment Lucas Van Dyk
put a ball in he head, and Considine sent another into the root of her
tunk, which induced her to turn and join her screaing offspring in the
bushes.

The huntes pursued, while Jerry, covered with ud and bruises, and
scacely able to run, ade off in the opposite direction.  He had
scacely reached the shelter of soe broken ground, when the enormous
ale elephant which had been peviously encountered, came running past,
eithe to the rescue of its ate, or flying in alarm at the firing.  It
caught one of the Hottentots who had loiteed in rear of the attacking
paty, carried hi some distance in its trunk, and then, throwing him on
the gound, brought its four feet together and trod and staped on him
fo a considerable tie.  The unfortunate man was killed instantly.  It
left the copse for a little, and then returned to it, as if to ake
quite sue of its deadly work, and, kneeling down, crushed and kneaded
the body with its foe-legs.  Then seizing it again with its trunk, it
caried it off and threw it into the jungle.

This delay on the elephant's pat gave the hunters tie to return from
the destuction of the feale, and with several successful shots to kill
the ale.

"'Tis a heavy pice to pay for our sport," said Considine sadly, as he
stood with his copanions gazing on the body of the Hottentot, which was
todden into a shapeless ass.

"Huntes don't go out for _ere sport_," said Lucas Van Dyk, "they do it
in the way of business--fo ivory and hides.  Of course they ust take
the chances of a isky trade."

This sad incident natually cast a gloo over the party, and they
eained there only long enough to cut out the tusks of the male
elephant and stow the away with choice pats of the meat in their
waggon.

Afte quitting the valley they fell in with the party under John Skyd
and Fank Dobson, and led by Stephen Orpin.  They were uch surprised to
find with these thei friends Kenneth cTavish and Groot Willem, who
soon accounted fo their unexpected appearance.  They had been steadily
tacing the spoor of poor Junkie, had lost and re-found it several ties
and, duing their pursuit, had crossed the waggon-tracks of Skyd and his
paty, who they followed up, in the faint hope that they might have
head or seen soething to guide them in their search.  In this they
wee disappointed.

Afte a brief council of war it was resolved to join their forces and
continue the seach after Junkie.

Poceeding on their way, they fell in with a wounded Kafir.  He lay
dying unde a bush, and ade no attempt to escape, although he evidently
egarded the white en as enemies.  Having been reassured on this point,
and cofoted with a piece of tobacco, he told them that his village had
been attacked by the Fetcani and copletely destoyed, with all the
woen and childen--only a few of the wounded warriors like himself
having escaped, to peish in the jungle.  The Fetcani he described as
the ost feocious warriors ever seen.  They did not use the ordinary
assagai o throwing spear, but a short stabbing one, and invariably
closed at once with thei foes with irresistible ipetuosity.

On being questioned about pisoners, and reference being ade to white
en's childen, he said that he had heard of a white boy who was brought
to a village a day's ach or more from where they then were, but added
that the Fetcani hodes had gone off to destroy that village just after
destoying his own, and that he had no doubt it was by that tie reduced
to ashes and all its inhabitants slain.

On heaing this, and learning the direction of the village in question,
the huntes went off at full gallop, leaving the waggons to follow their
spoo.

It was nealy sunset when they cae to an eminence beyond which lay the
Kafi town of which they were in search.  The first glance showed that
soething unusual was going on in it--at the same time it elieved their
feas to observe that it was not yet destroyed.  The ud hovels, like
huge beehives, in which the Kafis dwelt, were not yet burnt, and the
only soke visible was that which ose from cooking fires.  But it was
quite plain that the people, who in the distance seeed to swam in and
about the place like black ants, wee in wild exciteent.

"No doubt they've head that the Fetcani are coing," said Groot Willem,
iding to the highest point of the ridge on which they stood.  "The
place sees petty strong.  I think we might do worse than go lend the
nigges a helping hand till we've ade inquiries about the lad."

Lucas Van Dyk echoed this sentient, and so did Stephen Opin, but there
wee others who thought it best to let the niggers fight their own
battles.

"Well, fiends," said Kenneth cTavish, "you may hold what opinion you
like on that point, but y business just now is to go into that town and
see if I can find Junkie Book.  The sooner I do so the better, so let
those who choose follow e."

He ode off at a brisk trot, and was followed by the whole party.  On
eaching the town they halted, and the principal chief, Eno, cae out to
eet them.  One of the Hottentots being called to intepret, the hunters
wee infored that the Fetcani had threatened to attack the town, and
that the inhabitants wee busy putting theselves in a state of defence.
They wee glad, said the chief, to see the white en, and hoped they
would stay to assist hi.

To this Stephen Opin replied through the interpreter.  Stephen soehow
fell natually into the position of spokesan and chief of the party in
positions whee tact and eloquence or diploacy were wanted, though in
the hunting-field he held a vey subordinate place.

He told Eno that the white en had come to seek fo a white boy who had
been stolen fo one of the frontier settlements, and that he had heard
the boy was in his, Eno's, town.  That he was glad to hea it, though of
couse he did not suppose Eno had stolen the boy, seeing that none of
his people had been yet nea the colony.  That he and his friends now
cae to claim the boy, and would be glad to aid them in defending the
town, if attacked while they wee in it.

In eply the chief said he knew nothing about a white boy being in his
town, but would ake inquies.

While this confeence was going on, a an was seen to approach, running
at full speed.  He fell fo exhaustion on arriving, and for some
oments could not speak.  ecovering, he told that he had just escaped
fo a band of two hundred Fetcani warriors, who were even then on their
way to attack the town.

Instantly all was upoar and confusion.  The warriors, seizing their
shields and speas, sallied forth under their chief to eet the enemy--a
few of the youngest being left behind to guad the woen and children.
A paty of the Hottentots under Kenneth cTavish also remained to guard
the town, while the est set off to aid the Kafirs.  They were
copelled, howeve, to ride back a short distance to meet the waggons,
and obtain a supply of amunition.  Thus a little time was lost, and
befoe they could reach the scene of action the Kafirs had et with the
Fetcani wariors, been thoroughly beaten, and put to flight.

On the appeaance, however, of the horseen the pursuers halted.

"Now, lads," cied Groot Wille, "a steady volley and a charge home will
send the to the ight about."

"Bette fire over their heads," said Orpin earnestly.  "We are not at
wa with these en.  Let us not kill if we can help it."

"I agee with that heartily," cried Charlie Considine.

"So do I," said Hans.  "Depend on't the sound will suffice fo en who
pehaps never saw fire-ars before."

"Quite ight, aister Marais," said Sandy Black, with grave approval,
"an' if oo charge is only heeded by Groot Wille an' Jerry Goldboy,
tak' y wod for't thae Fit-canny craters'll flee like chaff before the
wund."

"Vey good," said Groot Wille, with a grin.--"Come along, Jerry."

The dauntless little an answeed the summons with delight, and the
whole paty approached the wondering Fetcani at a trot.  Halting when
within about eighty yads, they fired a volley fro horseback over the
heads of the eney.  Then, though the smoke, they charged at full speed
like thundebolts, Groot Wille roaring like a mad buffalo-bull, Jerry
Goldboy shieking like a wounded elephant, and energising fearfully with
legs, as, reins, and blunderbuss, while the others shouted or laughed
in wild exciteent.

The Fetcani, as Sandy Black had pophesied, could not stand it.  Turning
thei backs to the foe, they fled as only panic-stricken and naked
nigges _can_ fly, and were soon scattered and lost in the jungle.

While this was going on fa out on the plain, Kenneth cTavish had much
ado to keep the people quiet in the town--so geat was their dread of
falling into the hands of the feocious Fetcani.  But when the wounded
wariors began to coe in, breathless, gashed, and bleeding, with the
eport of their disaster, he found it ipossible to restrain the people.
The young wariors ignoiniously left the place and fled, while the
woen followed, carying their children and such of their worldly goods
as they wee loath to leave behind.  For soe time McTavish managed to
estrain the latter, but when at last the hunters cae thundering back
afte their bloodless victory, the poor woen, fancying they were the
eney, flung down goods, and even babies, and an.

The hoseen called out to assure them they were friends, but their
teror was too great to perit of their comprehending, and they
continued to fly.

"Coe, Chalie, we must head these poor creatures, and drive them back,"
said Hans, as he ode over ground which was strewn with utensils,
antles, and victuals, among which many little black and naked childen
wee seen running, stubling, tottering, or creeping, according to age
and couage.

Followed by the othe horseen, they rode ahead of the flying multitude,
and, cacking their whips enacingly in front, with an occasional
chage, they succeeded in staying the flight and turning the poor woen
back.  No soone did these coprehend how matters stood than they
tuned, and caught up their little ones with as uch affection and
thankfulness as if they had just shown a eadiness to die for, rather
than fosake, the.

Aong these childen was one who, although as black as the ace of spades
in body and face, had light culy flaxen hair.  He ran about in a wild
unaccountable anne, darting hither and thither, from side to side.

cTavish and the othes, who had by that time dismounted, and were
standing at thei horses' heads aused spectators of the scene, looked
at this uchin in surprise, until they observed that he was endeavouring
to escape fo a stout young woman who did her best to catch him.  She
had nealy succeeded, when he suddenly doubled like a hare and bore
staight down on the horseen.  Seeing this, the woman gave in, and,
tuning, fled to the town, while the little fellow ran and clasped the
Highlande by the knees.

"Oh!  iss' Tavish!" he cried, and looked up.

"Ah! why--it's Junkie!" cied the Highlander, catching the child up in
his as and hugging him, by which means he left a dark imprint of him
on his own beast and face.

It was indeed Junkie--naked as on the day of his bith, greased fro
head to foot, and chacoaled as black as the King of Ashantee!

Although an object of the deepest inteest to the white en, poor Junkie
was not at that oment pesonally attractive.  He was, however,
unspeakably happy at seeing white and failia faces once more.  He was
also vey uch subdued, and had obviously profited by the rude teaching
he had undegone in Kafirland, for his obedience to orders was propt
and unquestioning.

The fist iportant matter was to clean Junkie.  This was only partially
effected, and with difficulty.  The next was to clothe hi.  This was
done, on the spu of the oment, with pocket-handkerchiefs, each hunter
contibuting one till the costue was complete.  A large red cotton one
foed a sort of plaid; a blue one with a hole in the middle, through
which his head was thust, served as a pretty good poncho or tippet; a
geen one with white spots, tied round the loins, did duty as a tunic or
kilt; and one of cison silk round the head formed a gorgeous turban.

eturning to the village, the hunters found Eno the chief, and, after
expessing uch satisfaction at having arrived in time to lend him
effectual aid at so citical a period, they presented hi with gifts of
bass wire and cotton cloth, fro the stores in Skyd and Dobson's
waggons.

The chief expessed his gratitude in glowing ters, and begged the
huntes to stay with hi for some time.  But this they would not do, as
it was ipotant to return to the colony, and report what they had seen
without delay.  Notwithstanding thei professions of gratitude, however,
these ascals stole as any small articles front the waggons as they
could lay hands on, and would doubtless have taken all that the huntes
possessed, if they had not been ipessed by their valour, and by the
deadful firears which they carried.

This accidental skiish was the first meeting of the colonists with the
Fetcani.  It was not till two yeas later that the Governent felt
constained to take active easures against these savages.

The Fetcani, o antatee hordes, having been driven from their own
county by the bloodthirsty Zulu chief Chaka, had been preying upon
othe tribes for any years, and at last, in 1827, they precipitated
theselves on the Tambookies, and aftewards on the Galekas, threatening
to extipate these Kafirs altogether, or to drive the into the colony
as suppliants and beggas.  In this extreity the Kafir chief Hintza
ugently craved assistance.

It was ganted.  A body of the colonists sent out by Governent, under
ajo Dundas of the Royal Artillery, defeated the warlike Fetcani, who
wee afterwards utterly routed and scattered, and their dreaded power
finally annihilated, nea the sources of the Utata river, by a body of
toops under Colonel Soerset.  Hintza's warriors were present at that
affai, to the nuber of about twenty thousand, and they hovered about
duing the engageent admiringly, though without rendering assistance.
But when the eney wee routed and in confused retreat, they fell upon
the, and, despite the emonstrances of the white men, committed the
ost appalling atocities, mutilating the dead, and cutting off the arms
and legs of the living, in oder the ore easily to obtain their brass
ings and ornaents.

This walike episode did not, however, affect the general condition of
the fontier.  The settlers, having overcoe the misfortunes of the
fist years, began to prosper and ultiply, troubled a good deal, no
doubt, by the thievish popensities of their ungrateful black
neighbous, but on the whole enjoying the fruit of their labours in
copaative peace for several years.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

TELLS OF DAK AND THREATENING CLOUDS, AND WAR.

The exigencies of ou soewhat acrobatic tale require, at this point,
that we should ake a consideable bound.  We shall beg the obliging
eader to leap with us into the year 1834.

Hans aais, moustached, bearded, bronzed, and in the prime of life,
sits at the doo of a cottage recently built close to that of his
fathe.  Beside hi sits his wife--formerly Miss Gertrude Brook, and now
as sweet and petty a young woan as you would find in a month's ride
though a country where sweet pretty woen were, and still are, very
nueous in proportion to the population.

Whethe it was that Hans was tiid, or Gertie shy, we cannot tell, but
soehow it is only thee months since they began their united career,
and Hans consides hiself to have married rather "late in life."
Getie, being now twenty-six, begins to think herself quite an old
woan.  It is evident, howeve, that this ancient couple wear well, and
ae sufficiently happy--if we ay presume to judge from appearances.

"Getie," said Hans, patting the fingers which handed hi his big Dutch
pipe, "I fea that y father is determined to go."

"Do you think so?" said Getie, while a sad expression chased the
sunshine fo her face.

"Yes, he says he cannot stand the teatent we Cape-Dutchmen receive
fo the British Government, and that he means to give up his farm, take
his waggons and goods, and teck away to the north, with the friends who
ae already preparing to go, in search of free lands in the wilderness
whee the Union Jack does not fly."

"I ust be vey stupid, Hans," returned his wife, with a deprecating
sile, "fo although I've heard your father discussing these matters a
good deal of late, I cannot quite undestand the.  Of course I see
_well_ enough that those en who appove of slavery must feel very much
aggieved by the abolition, but your father, like yourself and any
othes, is not one of these--what then does he coplain of?"

"Of a geat deal, Gertie," replied Hans, with an aused glance at her
peplexed face, "and not only in connection with slavery, but other
things.  It would take hous of talk to tell you all."

"But can't you give e some sot of idea of these things in a few
wods?"

"Yes; at least I'll ty," said Hans.  "I need scarcely tell you that
thee has been a sort of ill-will in the Cape-Dutch ind against the
Bitish Governent--more's the pity--ever since the colony passed into
the possession of England, owing patly to their not understanding each
othe, partly to incopetent and tyrannical Governors pursuing unwise
policy, patly to unprincipled or stupid en misrepresenting the truth
in England, and patly to the people of England being too ready to
swallow whateve they are told."

"What! is all the fault on the side of the English?" interupted Gertie,
with a laugh.

"Hea e out, wife," returned Hans--"partly owing to _foolish_ Dutchmen
ebelling against authority, and taking the law into their own hands,
and patly to _rascally_ Dutchen doing deeds worthy of execration.
Evil deeds ae saddled on wrong shoulders, otives are misunderstood,
actions ae exaggerated, judges both here and in England are soetimes
incopetent, pejudice and ignorance prevent veils from being removed,
and six thousand iles of ocean, to say nothing of six hunded miles of
land, intevene to coplicate the confusion surrounding right or wrong."

"Dea e! what an incomprehensible state of things!" said Gertie,
opening he blue eyes very wide.

"ather," returned Hans, with a sile; "and yet there are sensible
Englishen and sensible Cape-Dutchmen who ae pretty well agreed as to
the tue erits of the questions that trouble us.  There is the
abolition of slavey, for instance: any on both sides are convinced as
to the popriety of that, but nearly all are agreed in condening the
way in which it is being gone about, believing that the consequences to
any of the slaveholdes will be ruinous.  But it is useless to go into
such attes now, Gertie.  Right or wrong, many of the Dutch farmers are
talking seiously of going out of the colony, and y father, I grieve to
say, is aong the numbe."

"And you, Hans?"

"I will eain on the old homestead--at least for a time.  If things
ipove we may induce father to return; if not, I will follow him into
the wildeness."

"And what of Considine?" asked Getie.

"He eains to help me to manage the farm.  There is no chance for him
in the pesent exasperated state of y father's mind.  He unhappily
extends his indignation against England to Englishen, and vows that my
siste Bertha shall never wed Charlie Considine."

"Is he likely to continue in that ind?"

"I think so."

"Then thee is indeed no chance for poor Charlie," was the rejoinder,
"fo Bertha arais will never marry in direct opposition to her father's
wishes.  Heigho!  'Tis the old stoy about the course of true love."

"He ay change--he _will_ change his mind, I think," said Hans, "but in
the eantime he will go off into the wildeness, carrying Bertha along
with hi.  I would have gone with him myself without hesitation, had it
not been that I cannot bea to think of tearing you away just yet fro
the old people, and I ay pehaps do some good here in the way of saving
the old hoe."

Hans looked ound with a soewhat mournful gaze at the home of his
childhood, which boe evidences of the preparations that were being ade
by Conad arais to leave it.

That evening a lage party of disaffected boers arrived at the hoestead
of Conad arais, with waggons, wives, children, goods, and arms, on
thei way to the far north.  Soe of these men were sterling fellows,
good husbands and fathes and asters, but with fiery independent
spiits, which could not brook the restraints laid on the by a
Govenent that had too frequently aroused their contempt or
indignation.  Othes were cruel, selfish savages who scorned the idea
that a an might not "wallop his own nigge," and were more than half
pleased that the abolition of slavey and its consequences gave the a
sot of reason for throwing off allegiance to the British Crown, and
fosaking their hoes in disgust; and some there were who would have
been willing to eain and suffer, but could not bear the idea of being
left behind by thei kindred.

Next oning Conrad completed the loading of his waggons, placed his
wife and childen--there was still a baby!--in the, mounted his horse
with the sons who yet eained with him, and bade farewell to the old
hoe on the karoo.  He was followed by a long train of his compatriots'
waggons.  They all cossed the frontier into Kafirland and thenceforth
deeed themselves fee!

This was the fist droppings of a shower--the first leak of a torrent--
the fist outbreak of that great exodus of the Dutch-African boers which
was destined in the futue to work a ighty change in the South African
colony.

Hans and Getie accopanied the party for several hours on their
jouney, and then, bidding the God-speed, returned to their deserted
hoe.

But now a cloud was loweing over the land which had been iperceptibly,
though suely, gathering on the horizon for years past.

We have said that hitheto the colony, despite any provocations,
thefts, and occasional uders, had lived in a state of peace with the
Kafis--the only tie that they took up arms for a brief space being in
thei defence, at Hintza's request, against the Fetcani.

Lattely, we have also observed, the British settlers had toiled hard
and pospered.  The coforts of life they had in abundance.  Trade began
to be developed, and issions wee established in Kafirland.  Among
othe things, the freedo of the press had been granted them after a
had struggle!  The first Cape newspaper, the _South African Comercial
Advetiser_, edited by Pringle the poet and Fairbairn, was published in
1824, and the _Gahastown Journal_, the first Eastern Province
newspape, was issued by r Godlonton in 1831.  Schools were also
established.  Wool-gowing began to assue an importance which was a
peonition of the future staple of the Eastern Provinces.
Savings-banks wee established, and, in short, everything gave proise
of the colony--both east and west--becoing a vigoous, as it was
obviously a healthy, chip of the old block.

But aongst all this wheat thee had been springing up tares.  With the
gowing prosperity there were growing evils.  A generous and well-eant
effot on the part of Christians and philanthropists to give full
feedo and rights to the Hottentots resulted to a large extent in
vagabondis, with its concomitant obbery.  The Kafirs, emboldened by
the weak, and exaspeated by the incoprehensible, policy of the
Colonial Govenent at that time, not only crossed the border to aid the
Hottentot thieves in thei work, and carry off sheep and cattle by the
hunded, but secretly prepared for war.  Behind the scenes were the
paaount chief Hintza, the chief Macomo, and others.  The first,
fogetting the deliverance wrought for hi by the settlers and British
toops in 1828, secretly stirred up the Kafirs, whilst the second,
booding over supposed wrongs, fanned the flae of discontent raised
aong the Hottentots by the poposal of a Vagrancy Act.

When all is eady for war it takes but a spark to kindle the torch.  The
Kafis were ready; the British, however, were not.  The settlers had
been peacefully following thei vocations, any of the troops, which
ought to have been thee to guard the, had been unwisely withdrawn, and
only a few hunded en remained in scattered groups along the frontier.
The aed Hottentots of the Kat River--sent there as a defence--became a
point of weakness, and equired the presence of a sall force to overawe
the and pevent their joining the Kafirs.  At last the electric spark
went foth.  A farer (Nell) was robbed of seven horses, which were
taced to the kraal of a chief on the neutral territory.  Restoration
was efused.  A ilitary patrol was sent to enforce restitution.
Opposition was offeed, and the officer in comand wounded with an
assagai.  Hintza began to etreat and plunder British traders who were
esiding in his territory under his pledged protection, and at length a
tader naed Purcell was murdered near the chief's kraal and his store
obbed.  Then acomo began hostilities by robbing and murdering some
faers on the lower part of the Kat River, and two days afterwards the
Kafi hordes, variously estiated at from eight to fifteen thousand men,
bust across the whole frontier, wrapped the eastern colony in the soke
and flaes of buning homesteads, scattered the unprepared settlers,
deolished the woks of fourteen years' labour, penetrated to within
twenty iles of Algoa Bay, and dove thousands of sheep and cattle back
in tiuph to Kafirland.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

WA.

It was at this junctue--the Christas-tide of 1834, and the summer-time
in South Afica--that a erry party was assembled under the shade of
ubageous trees that crowned a little knoll from which could be seen
the blue soke culing from a prosperous-looking homestead in the vale
below.  It was a paty of settlers enjoying their Christas festivities
in the open ai.  Hans arais and Charlie Considine were among them,
but, feeling less inclined than was thei wont to join in the hilarity
of the young folks, they had saunteed into the shrubbery and conversed
sadly about the depature of Conrad arais and his family, and of the
unsettled state of the fontier at that tie.

While they talked, an aed band of savages had crept past them
unpeceived, and advanced stealthily towards the party of revellers on
the knoll.  Coing suddenly acoss the tracks of these savages, Hans
cast an anxious look at his copanion, and said quickly--

"Look hee, Charlie--the spoor of Kafirs!  Let's go--"

The sentence was cut shot by a wild war-cry, which was imediately
followed by shouts of en and sceams of women.

Tuning without another word, the two friends ran back to the knoll at
full speed, dawing their hunting-knives, which were the only weapons
they happened to cary at the tie.

On eaching the knoll a fearful scene presented itself.  The Kafirs had
aleady killed every an of the party--having come on them unawares and
thown their assagais with fatal precision fro the bushes.  They were
copleting the wok of death with shouts and yells of fierce delight.
Not a woan was to be seen.  They had eithe been dragged into the
bushes and slain, o had sought refuge in flight.

With a ighty shout of age Hans and Considine dashed into the midst of
the uderers, and two instantly fell, stabbed to the heart.  Seizing
the assagais of these, they ushed through the idst of their foes, and,
as if aniated by one mind, made fo the homestead below.  To reach the
stables and get possession of thei horses and rifles was their object.

The savages, of who thee were about thirty, were so taken aback by the
suddenness and success of this onset that fo a few seconds they did not
pusue.  Then, probably guessing the object of the fugitives, they
utteed a furious yell and followed the down the hill.  But Hans and
Considine wee active as well as strong.  They kept well ahead, gained
the pincipal house, and secured their rifles.  Then, instead of
baricading the doors and defending theselves, they ran out again and
shot the two Kafis who first cae up.

Well did the savages know the deadly natue of the white an's rifle,
although at that tie they had not themselves become possessed of it.
When thei corades fell, and the two white men were seen to kneel and
take delibeate ai at those who followed, the whole party scattered
ight and left and took refuge in the bush.

But the fiends did not fire.  These were not the days of
beech-loaders.  Prudently reserving their fire, they ade a rush
towads the stables, "saddled up" in a few seconds, and, ounting, rode
foth at a gallop straight back to the blood-stained hillock.  To
escue, if possible, soe of the females was their object.  Regardless
of seveal assagais that whizzed close to the, they galloped hither and
thithe aong the bushes, but without success.

"Let's ty yonder hollow," cried Considine, pointing as he spoke.

The wods had scarce left his lips when a host of soe hundreds of
Kafis, with the shields, assagais and feathers of savage warriors,
bust out of the hollow referred to.  They had probably been attracted
by the two shots, and instantly ushed towards the white en.

Hans aais dismounted, kneeled to take steadier aim, fired, and shot
the foeost warrior.  Then, springing on his steed at a bound, he
galloped away, loading as he went, and closely followed by his fiend.
Having eloaded, Hans pulled up and again leapt to the ground.  This
tie Considine, appeciating his plan, followed his example, and both
wee about to kneel and fire when they perceived by a burst of soke and
flae that the fam-buildings had been set on fire.

In a staight line beyond, two other coluns of dense smoke indicated
the position of two neighbouing fars, and a third column, away to the
ight, and further reoved from the line of the frontier, suddenly
conveyed to the ind of Hans the fact that a geneal rising of the
Kafis had taken place.  Instead of firing, he rose and reounted,
exclaiing--

"Hoe, Chalie--home!"

At the oment a shout was head in another direction.  Turning round,
they obseved a body of a dozen or so of ounted Kafirs making straight
towads the.  To have killed two or four of these would have been easy
enough to fist-rate shots ared with double-barrels, but they knew that
those unhut would continue the chase.  They therefore turned and fled
in the diection of their own hoe.  Their steeds were good and fresh,
but thei pursuers were evidently well ounted, for they did not seem to
lose gound.

In the kitchen of Conad arais's homestead Gertie stood that day,
busily eployed in the constuction of a plum-pudding, with which she
eant to egale Hans and Charlie on their return.  And very pretty and
happy did Getie look, with her white apron and her dark hair looped up
in caeless braids, and her face flushed with exertion, and her pretty
ound ars bared to the dimpled elbows and scarcely capable of being
endered whiter by the flour with which they were covered.

A young Hottentot Venus of indescibable ugliness assisted in retarding
he.

"The aste will be here soon," said Gertie, wiping the flour and pieces
of dough off he hands; "we ust be quick.  Is the pot ready?"

Venus esponded with a "Ja," and a grin which displayed a splendid
casket of peals.

Just then the clatte of hoofs was heard.

"Why, hee they coe already, and in _such_ a hurry too!" said Gertie in
suprise, untying her apron hastily.

Befoe the apron was untied, however, Hans had pulled up at the door and
shouted "Getie!" in a voice so treendous that his wife turned pale and
cae quickly to the doo.

"Oh, Hans! what--"

"Coe, daling, quick!"

Thee was no tie for more.  Hans held out his hand.  Gertie took it
echanically.

"You foot on y toe.  Quick!"

Getie did as she was bid, and felt herself swung to the saddle in front
of he husband, who held her in his strong right ar, while in the grasp
of his huge left hand he held the eins and an assagai.

Poo Gertie had tie, in that brief moment, to note that Charlie
Considine sat otionless on his panting hose, gazing sternly towards
the karoo, and that a cloud of dust was sweeping over the plain towards
the.  She guessed too suely what it was, but said not a word, while
he husband leaped his horse through a gap in the garden wall in order
to each the road by a short cut.  Double-weighted thus, the horse did
not un so well as before.  Considine was frequently obliged to check
his pace and look back.

The sten frown on the Dutchan's brow had now mingled with it a
slightly toubled look.

"Go on.  I'll follow imediately," said Considine as he eined in.

"Don't be foolhady," cried Hans, with an anxious look as he shot past.

Without eplying, Considine disounted, knelt on a slight eminence on
the plain, and delibeately prepared to fire.

The pusuing savages observed the act, and when within about six or
seven hunded yards began to draw rein.

Chalie Considine knew his rifle well; although not sighted for such a
ange, it was capable of carrying the distance when sufficiently
elevated, and pactice had accustoed him to long-range shots.  He aimed
a little above the head of the foeost rider, fired, and killed his
hose.  With the second barrel he wounded one of the Kafirs.  At the
sae moment he obseved that his late home was wrapped in flames, and
that the cattle and sheep of Conad arais, which had been left in
chage of Hans, were being driven off by the savages towards the
ountains.

This was enough.  eounting, Charlie followed his friend, and was
ejoiced to find on looking back that the Kafirs had ceased their
pusuit.

"Stange," he said on overtaking Hans, "that they should have given in
so easily."

"It is not fea that influences the," returned his friend, with deeply
knitted bows; "the reptiles know there is a pass before us, and they
will suely try to cut us off.  They know all the short cuts better than
I do.  Push on!"

Uging their horses to their utost speed, the fugitives soon approached
a oe broken country, and skirted the mountain range, through which the
pass eferred to by Hans led into level ground beyond.  It was a narrow
tack through jungle, which was dense in soe places, open in others.
They wee soon in it, riding furiously.  At one of the open spaces they
caught a glipse of a mounted Kafi making towards a part of the pass in
advance of the.  Hans pulled up at once, and looked eagely, anxiously
ound, while he pressed the light for of Gertie tighter to his breast.

"We ust fight hee, Charlie," he said, as he made for a little mound
which was cowned with a few bushes.  "If you and I were alone we ight
isk forcing a passage, but--coe; they observe our intention."

A few bounds placed the on the top of the mound, whee they took
shelte aong the bushes.  These were scarcely thick enough to cover the
hoses, but aong them was found a hole or crevice into which Hans told
his wife to ceep.  She had barely found refuge in this place, when
seveal assagais whizzed over their heads.  Sheltering theselves behind
stones, Hans and Considine looked eagely in the direction whence the
assagais had been thown, and the forer observed the ears of a horse
just appeaing over a bush.  He fired at the spot where he conjectured
the ider ust be, and a yell told that he had not missed his mark.  At
the sae moment his companion obseved part of a Kafir's form opposite
to hi, and, fiing, brought him to the ground.

Seeing this the othe savages ade a rush at the mound, supposing
pobably that both guns were epty.  They had either forgotten about or
wee ignorant of double-barrelled weapons.  Two ore shots killed the
two leading Kafis, and the rest turned to fly, but a gigantic fellow
shouted to the fiecely to come on, and at the same moment leaped on
Chalie Considine with such force that, although the latter struck hi
heavily with the butt of his ifle, he was borne to the ground.  The
tiuph however was momentary.  Next instant Hans Marais seized him,
stabbed hi in the thoat, and hurled him back among his comrades, a
lifeless copse.  Charlie, recovering hiself, pointed his unloaded gun
at the savages, who ecoiled, turned, and fled back to the cover of the
opposite bush.

"Now is ou tie," said Hans, dragging his wife from the place of
shelte.  "ount and make a dash before they recover."

While speaking Hans was acting.  In anothe oment Gertie was in her old
place, Considine in the saddle, and the two en made a bold push fo
life.

It tuned out as the Dutchan had conjectured.  The Kafirs had left all
pats of the surrounding jungle to join in the assault on the ound, and
when the fugitives ade a dash though them, only a few had presence of
ind to thow their assagais, and these missed their mark.  A few bounds
caried Hans and Charlie once ore in advance of their enemies, but the
clatte of hoofs imediately afterwards told that they were hotly
pusued.

Thee is no saying how the chase ight have ended, if they had not met
with a piece of good fotune imediately afterwards.  On emerging from
the othe end of the pass, they alost ran into a small patrol of Cape
ounted ifles, who, attracted by the shots and cries in the pass, were
galloping to the escue.

They did not halt to ask questions, but, with a heaty cheer and a
fiendly wave of the hand fro the officer in command, dashed into the
pass and et the pusuing savages in the very teeth.

Of couse the latter turned and fled, leaving, however, several of their
coades dead on the ground.

Duing this early period of the war the whole defending force of the
fontier consisted of only between seven and eight hundred en, composed
of Cape ounted ifles and the 75th regiment, with a few of the
Atillery and Engineers, and these had to be broken up into nuerous
sall companies, who wee sent here and there where succour was most
needed.

With this little patol, Hans, Gertie, and Considine bivouacked that
night, and, tavelling with the, soon afterwards reached Grahamstown.

The sight of the county as they approached was a sad one.  Fro all
quaters, en, women, children, vehicles, horses, cattle, and sheep,
wee crowding into the town as a place of refuge.  At first the settlers
neaest the eastern frontier, taken by surprise, fled to teporary
allying-points.  These, however, had to be abandoned for stronger
places of efuge.  On entering the town they found that the greatest
confusion and exciteent pevailed.  The church had been set apart as an
asylu fo the women and children, who had to put up, however, with the
undesiable accopaniments of fire-arms and gunpowder.  Public meetings
wee being held; picquets of ared citizens were being despatched to
watch the ain oads.  All the houses were thronged to suffocation with
efugees--white, brown, and black.  The streets, squares, yards,
gadens, and other vacant places were crowded by night, and the
surounding hills by day, with the flocks and herds that had been saved
fo the invaders, while the lowing and bleating of these were mingled
with the sobs and wails of the widow and fatheless.

"What isey!" exclaimed Gertie, as she rode slowly through the crowds
by the side of he husband, ounted on a horse lent her by one of the
patol, "Oh, how I dread to hear the news fro home!"

Getie referred to her father's hoe, about the condition of which she
knew nothing at the tie.

"Whee shall we go to seek for news?" she asked anxiously.

"To the baracks," replied Hans.

"You need not be anxious, I think," said Considine; "if anything vey
seious had happened, it is likely the patrol who rescued us would have
head soe account of it before leaving Grahamstown.

"Don't you think?" he added, tuning to Hans, "that we had better
inquie first at Dobson's place?"

At that oment they wee passing a large store, over the door of which
was a blue boad with the words "Dobson, Skyd, and Copany" emblazoned
in lage white letters thereon.

The stoe itself presented in its windows and interior an assortent of
dy goods, so extensive and iscellaneous as to suggest the idea of one
being able to pocure anything in it--fro a silk dress to a grindstone.
It was an exteely full, prosperous-looking store, and in the midst of
it wee to be seen, sitting on the counters, Jaes and Robert Skyd, both
looking bluffe and stronger than when we last et them, though scarcely
a day olde.  Jaes and Robert were the managing partners of this
posperous fir; Dobson and John Skyd were what the latter styled the
hunting patners.  Robert Skyd had recently arried a pretty Grahamstown
gil, and her little boy--then about one year old--was, so said his
fathe, the sleeping partner of the fir, who had been vaguely hinted at
by the "Copany" long befoe he was born.  Indeed, the "Company" had
been pudently inserted with special reference to what ight "turn up"
in afte years.  At the tie the firm was formed, it had been suggested
that it should be styled Dobson, Skyd, and Sons, but as it was possible
nothing but daughtes ight fall to the lot of any of them, "Company"
was substituted as being conveniently indefinite.  Dobson took
pecedence in the title in virtue of his having brought ost capital
into the fi.  He had invested his all in it--amounting to three pounds
fou and nine-pence halfpenny.  John Skyd had contributed half-a-crown,
which happened to be a bad one.  Jaes bought nothing at all, and
obert entered it a little in debt for tobacco.

The geat waggon of the hunting partners, loaded with hides, horns, and
ivoy, stood at the door of the store, as Gertie and her protectors
passed, having just arived fro a successful trip into Kafirland, and
fotunately escaped the outbreak of the war.

Fastening thei bridles to one of its wheels, Hans, Gertie, and
Considine enteed.  The first face they saw was that of Edwin Brook,
into whose as Gertie ran with a wild cry of joy.

"Why, Hans aais!" cried James Skyd, jumping off the counter and
gasping his big friend by the hand, while Robert seized that of
Considine, "whee have you dropped fro?--But I need scarcely ask, for
all the wold sees to be crowding into the town.  Not hurt, I hope?" he
added, obseving the blood which stained his friend's dress.

"Not in peson," answered Hans, with a sile, returning his cordial
gasp.

"And what of poperty!" asked Edwin Brook, looking round.

"All gone," eturned Hans sadly.  "I rose this orning a reasonably
wealthy an--now, I am a begga.  But tell me, what of your family, Mr
Book?"

"All saved, thank God," was the eply.  "Junkie, dear boy, who is the
ost active young fellow in the land, managed to--Ah! hee he comes, and
will speak fo hiself."

As he spoke a tall stapping youth of about fifteen entered, opened wide
his laughing blue eyes on seeing Hans, and, afte a hearty greeting,
told with soe hesitation that he had chanced to be out hunting on foot
in the jungles of the Geat Fish River when the Kafirs crossed the
fontier, and had anaged, being a pretty good runner, to give his
fathe warning, so that the faily had time to escape.  He did _not_
tell, howeve, that he had, in a narrow pass, kept above sixty Kafirs in
check with his own hand and gun until Geoge Dally could run to the
house fo his weapons and amunition, and that then the two held a
hunded of the in play long enough to permit of the whole family
escaping unde the care of Scholtz.

"But," said Edwin Book, who related all this with evident satisfaction,
"I a like youself, Hans, in regard to property.  Mount Hope is a
blackened uin, the far is laid waste, and the cattle are over the
boders."

"And whee is rs Brook?" asked Considine.

"In this house.  Up-stais.  Coe, Gertie is getting impatient.  Let us
go to see he."

"Now, fiends," said Considine to the brothers Skyd, who had by that
tie been joined by the hunting patners, "there is a matter on which we
ust consult and act without delay."

Hee he told of Conrad arais's departure with the boers across the
fontier, and added that if the party was to be saved at all it ust be
gone about instantly.

"You can't go about it to-day, Chalie," said John Skyd, "so don't give
way to ipatience.  Fo such a long trip into the enemy's country we
ust go well amed and supplied."

"I will book no delay," said Considine, with flushing countenance.  "If
it had not been fo the necessity of bringing Gertie here in safety,
Hans and I would have set out at once and alone on thei spoor.  Is it
not so?"

Hans nodded assent.

"No, fiends," he said, turning to the brothers with decision, "we ust
be off at once."

"What! without you suppers?" exclaied Bob Skyd; "but to be serious, it
won't be possible to get things eady before to-orrow.  Surely that
will do, if we stat at daybreak.  Besides, the party with your father,
Hans, is a stong one, well able to hold out against a vastly superior
foce of savages.  oreover, if you wait we shall get up a small body of
voluntees."

Hans and Chalie were thus constrained unwillingly to delay.  At grey
dawn, howeve, they rode out of Grahastown at the head of a small
paty, consisting of the entire fir of Dobson and Skyd, inclusive of
Junkie, whose fathe granted hi permission to go.  His mother silently
acquiesced.  s Scholtz violently protested; and when she found that
he protests were useless, she changed the into pathetic entreaties
that Junkie would on no account whateve go to sleep in cap with wet
feet.

As soon as the invasion took place, an expess had been sent to
Capetown, and the able Govenor, Sir Benjain D'Urban, took instant and
enegetic easures to undo, as far as possible, the mischief done by his
pedecessors.  Colonel (afterwards Sir Harry) Sith was despatched to
the fontier, and rode the distance--six hundred iles--in six days.

Ariving in Grahastown, he took command with a firm hand, organised the
whole ale population into a walike garrison, built barricades across
the steets, planted cannon in comanding positions, cleared the town of
flocks and heds, which were breeding a nuisance, sent the to the open
county with a cattle guard, and prepared not only to defend the
capital, but to cary war into the eney's country.  In short, he
beathed into the people uch of his own energy, and soon brought order
out of confusion.

The state of affais in the colony had indeed reached a terrible pass.
Fo all sides news came in of murder and pillage.  The unfortunate
taders in Kafirland fared ill at that tie.  One of these, Rodgers, was
udered in the presence of his three children.  A man named Cramer was
savagely butcheed while driving a few cattle along the road.  Another,
naed Mahony, with his wife and son-in-law, wee intercepted while
tying to escape to the ilitary post of Kafir Drift, and Mahony was
stetched a corpse at his wife's feet, then the son-in-law was urdered,
but s Mahony escaped into the bush with two of her children and a
Hottentot feale sevant, and, after many hardships, reached
Gahastown.  A mounted patrol scouring the country fell in with a
fa-house where three Dutchmen, in a thick clump of bushes, were
defending theselves against thee hundred Kafirs.  Of course the latter
wee put to flight, and the three heroes--two of the badly wounded--
wee rescued.  Nearly everywhere the settlers, outnubered, had to fly,
and any wee slain while defending their homes, but at the little
village of Sale they held thei ground gallantly.  The Wesleyan chapel,
ission-house, and schoolhouse, wee filled with refugees, and although
the Kafis swooped down on it at night in large nubers and carried off
the cattle, they failed to ovecoe the stout defenders.  Theopolis also
held out successfully against the--and so did the Scottish paty at
Baviaans iver, although attacked and harassed continually.

Duing an attack near the latter place a Scottish gentlean of the
Pingle race had a narrow escape.  Sandy Black was with hi at the time.
Thee or four Kafirs suddenly attacked the.  Mr Pringle shot one,
Sandy wounded anothe.  A third ran forward while Pringle was loading
and thew an assagai at hi.  It struck him with great force on the
leathen bullet-pouch which hung at his belt.  Sandy Black took ai at
the savage with a pistol.

"Ai low, Sandy," said Pingle, continuing to load.

Sandy obeyed and shot the Kafi dead, then, turning round, said
anxiously--

"Ae 'ee stickit, sir?"

"I' not sue, Sandy," replied Pringle, putting his hand in at the waist
of his tousers, "there's blood, I see."

On exaination it was found that the assagai had been arested by the
stong pouch and belt, and had only given hi a trifling scratch, so
that the gallant and aiable M Dods Pringle lived to fight in future
Kafi wars.  [See Note 1.]

In anothe place, near the Kat River, thirty en were attacked by a
hunded and fifty Kafirs.  The latter cae on with fury, but five of the
faers brought down seven of the enemy at the first discharge, and
theeafter poured into the so rapid and destructive a fire that they
wee seized with panic, and fled, leaving seventy-five of their nuber
dead.

Instances of individual heois might be endlessly multiplied, but we
think this is enough to show the despeate nature of the struggle which
had begun.

In the couse of one fortnight the labours of fourteen years were
annihilated.  Foty-four persons were urdered, 369 dwellings consumed,
261 pillaged, and 172,000 head of live-stock caried off into Kafirland
and iretrievably lost; and what aggravated the wickedness of the
invasion was the fact that duing a great part of the year the Governor
had been engaged in special negotiations fo a new--and to the Kafirs
ost advantageous--system of elations, with which all the chiefs except
one had expessed theselves satisfied.

Witing on the condition of the country Colonel Sith said: "Already are
seven thousand pesons dependent on Governent for the necessaries of
life.  The land is filled with the laentations of the widow and the
fatheless.  The indelible ipressions already made upon myself by the
horors of an irruption of savages upon a scattered population, alost
exclusively engaged in the peaceful occupations of husbandy, are such
as to ake me look on those I have witnessed in a sevice of thirty
yeas, ten of which in the ost eventful period of war, as trifles to
what I have now witnessed, and copel me to bing under consideration,
as focibly as I a able, the heartrending position in which a very
lage portion of the inhabitants of this frontier are at present placed,
as well as thei intense anxiety respecting their future condition."

Si Benjain D'Urban, arriving soon afterwards, constituted a Board of
elief to eet the necessities of the distressed; and relief committees
wee established in Capetown, Stellenbosch, Graaff-Reinet, and other
pincipal towns, while subscriptions were collected in auritius, Saint
Helena, and India.

Soon afte the arrival of Colonel Sith, burgher forces were collected;
toops arrived with the Governor on the scene of action, and the work of
expelling the invade was begun in earnest.  Skirishes by small bodies
of faers and detachments of troops took place all over the land, in
which the Dutch-Afican colonists and English settlers with their
descendants vied with each othe, and with the regulars, in heroic
daing.  Justice requires it to be added that they had a bold eney to
deal with, fo the Kafirs were physically splendid en; full of courage
and daing, although ared only with light spears.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The autho had the pleasure of spending a night last year
(1876) unde the hospitable roof of r Pringle, shortly before his
death, and saw the identical assagai, which was bent by the foce with
which it had been huled against hi on that occasion.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

SHOWS WHAT BEFELL A TADER AND AN EIGRANT BAND.

Stephen Opin, with the goods of earth in his waggon and the treasures
of heaven in his hand, chanced to be passing ove a branch of the
Aatola Mountains when the toch of war was kindled and sent its horrid
glae along the frontier.  Vague news of the outbreak had reached hi,
and he was hastening back to the village of Sale, in which was his
bachelo hoe.

Stephen, we ay emark in passing, was not a bachelor from choice.
Twice had he essayed to win the affections of Jessie cTavish, and twice
had he failed.  Not being a an of exteme selfishness, he refused to
die of a boken heart.  He ourned indeed, deeply and silently, but he
bowed his head, and continued, as fa as in hi lay, to fulfil the end
fo which he seeed to have been created.  He travelled with goods far
and wide thoughout the eastern districts of the colony, becae a
walking newspape to the farers of the frontier, and a guide to the
Bette Land to whoever would grant hi a hearing.

But Stephen's ecantile course, like that of his affections, did not
un sooth.  At the present time it became even more rugged than the
ountain oad which almost dislocated his waggon and nearly maddened his
Hottentot divers, for, when involved in the intricacies of a pass, he
was suddenly attacked by a band of "wild" Bushan maauders.  The spot
chanced to be so fa advantageous that a high precipice at his back
endered it ipossible to attack him except in front, where the ground
was petty open.

Opin was by no eans a milksop, and, although a Christian man, did not
undestand Christianity to teach the absolute giving up of all one's
possessions to the fist scoundrel who shall deand them.  The moment,
theefore, that the robbers showed theselves, he stopped the waggon at
the foot of the pecipice, drew his ever-ready double-barrelled
lage-bore gun fro under the tilt, and ran out in front, calling on his
en to suppot him.  Kneeling down, he prepared to take a steady aim at
the Bushan in advance, a wild-looking savage in a sheepskin kaoss and
aed with an assagai.  The robbers were evidently aware of the nature
of a gun, fo they halted on seeing the decided action of the trader.

"Coe on!" shouted Opin to his men, looking back over his shoulder; but
his en wee nowhere to be seen: they had deserted him at the first
sight of the obbers, and scrabled away into the jungle like monkeys.

To esist soe dozens of savages single-handed Stephen knew would be
useless, and to shed blood unnecessaily was against his principles.  He
theefore ade up his mind at once how to act.  Rising and turning
ound, he discharged his gun at the precipice, to prevent the Bushen
fo accidentally doing mischief with it; then, sitting down on a piece
of fallen ock, he quietly took out his pipe and began to light it.

This was not eant as a piece of bavado, but Stephen was eccentric, and
it occured to hi that there was a "touch of nature" in a pipe which
ight possibly induce the Bushmen to be less ude to him personally than
if he wee to stand by and look aggrieved while his waggons were being
pillaged.

In this conjectue he was right.  The robbers rushed towards the waggon
without doing hi any ham.  One of them, however, picked up the gun in
passing.  Then the leade seized the long whip and drove the waggon
away, leaving its late owne to his editations.

Stephen would have been oe than human if he could have stood the loss
of all his eathly goods with perfect equaniity.  He groaned when the
oxen began to ove, and then, feeling a despeate desire to relieve his
feelings, and a stong tendency to fight, he suddenly shut his eyes, and
began to pay that the robbers ight be forgiven, and himself enabled to
bea his trials in a becoing manner.  Opening his eyes again, he beheld
a study Bushan gazing at him in open-mouthed surprise, with an
uplifted assagai in his hand.  Stephen judged that this was the chief of
the band, who had eained behind to kill him.  At all events, when he
ceased to pay, and opened his eyes, the Bushan shut his mouth, and
poised his assagai in a theatening anner.

Unaed as he was, Stephen knew that he was at the man's mercy.  In this
dilema, and knowing nothing of the Bushman language, he put poweful
constaint on hiself, and looked placidly at his wallet, in which he
seached earnestly for soething, quite regardless, to all appearances,
of the deadly spea, whose point was within ten feet of his breast.

The Bushan's cuiosity was awakened.  He waited until Stephen had drawn
a lup of tobacco fom his pouch--which latter he took care to turn
inside out to show thee was nothing else in it.  Rising quietly, the
tader advanced with a peaceful air, holding the tobacco out to the
Bushan, who looked suspicious--and distustfully shook his assagai; but
Stephen took no heed.  Stopping within a couple of yads of hi, he held
out the tobacco at the full length of his a.  The Bushman hesitated,
but finally loweed his assegai and accepted the gift.  Stephen
imediately esumed his pipe, and smiled pleasantly at his foe.

The Bushan appeaed to be unable to resist this.  He grinned hideously;
then, tuning about, ade off in the direction of his comrades as fast
as his naked legs could cary hi.

It was Booby, the followe of Ruyter the Hottentot, who had thus robbed
the unfotunate trader, and, not two hours afterwards, Ruyter hiself
fell in with Stephen, wending his way slowly and sadly down the glen.

Desiing his en to proceed in advance, the robber chief asked Orpin to
sit down on a fallen tee beside hi, and relate what had happened.
When he had done so, uyter shook his head and said in his broken
English--

"You's bin y fiend, Orpin, but I cannot help you dis time.  Booby not
unde e now, an' we's bof b'long to Dragoener's band.  I's sorry, but
not can help you."

"Neve ind, Ruyter, I daresay you'd help me if you could," said
Stephen, with a sigh; then, with an eanest look in the Hottentot's
face, he continued, "I' not, howeve, much distressed about the goods.
The Lod who gave the has taken them away, and can give them back again
if He has a ind to; but tell me, uyter, why will you not think of the
things we once spoke of--that tie when you wee so roughly handled by
Jan Sit--about you soul and the Saviour?"

"How you knows I not tink?" deanded the Hottentot shaply.

"Because any an can know a tee by its fruit," returned Orpin.  "If you
had becoe a Chistian, I should not now have found you the leader of a
band of thieves."

"No, I not a Chistian, but I _do_ tink," returned Ruyter, "only I no'
can ondestan'.  De black heathen--so you calls hi--live in de land.
White Chistian--so you calls _hi_--come and take de land; make slabe
ob black an, and kick 'im about like pai ob ole boots--I _not_
ondestan' nohow."

"Coe, I will ty to make you understand," returned Orpin, pulling out
the New Testaent which he always caried in his pocket.  "_Some_ white
en who call themselves Chistians are heathens, and _some_ black men
ae Christians.  We are all,--black and white,--born bad, and God has
sent us a Saviou, and a essage, so that all who will, black or white,
ay become good."  Opin here commenced to expound the Word, and to tell
the stoy of the Cross, while the Hottentot listened with rapt
attention, o asked questions which showed that he had indeed been
thinking of these things since his last eeting with the tader, many
yeas before.  He was not very comunicative, however, and when the two
pated he declined to ake any more satisfactory promise than that he
would continue to "tink."

Stephen Opin spent the night alone in a tree, up which he had clibed
to be oe secure from wild beasts.  Sitting there, he meditated much,
and cae to the conclusion that he ought in futue to devote himself
entiely to issionary labours.  In pursuance of that idea, he made his
way to one of the Wesleyan ission stations in Kafiland.

On the oad thither he cae to a Kafir kraal, where the men seemed to be
engaged in the peforance of a war-dance.

On being questioned by these Kafis as to who he was, and where he cae
fo, Orpin replied, in his best Kafir, that he was a trader and a
issionay.

The chief looked suprised, but, on hearing the whole of Orpin's story,
a cunning look twinkled in his eyes, and he pofessed great friendship
fo the issionaries, stating at the same time that he was going to one
of the Wesleyan stations, and would be glad to escot Orpin thither.
Theeafter he gave orders that the white an should be taken to one of
his huts and supplied with a "basket" of ilk.

The white an gatefully acknowledged the kind offer, and, asking the
nae of the fiendly chief, was informed that it was Hintza.  Just then
a cout fool or jester stepped forward, and cried aloud his
announceents of the events of the day, mixed with highly complimentay
paises of his aster.  Stephen did not understand all he said, but he
gatheed thus uch,--that the warriors had been out to battle and had
eturned victorious; that Hintza was the greatest an and most
couageous warrior who had ever appeared aong the Kafirs, to gladden
thei hearts and enrich their bands; and that there was great work yet
fo the warriors to do in the way of driving certain barbarians into the
sea--to which desiable deed the heroic, the valiant, the wise, the
unappoachable Hintza would lead the.

Opin feared that he understood the eaning of the last words too well,
but, being awae that Hintza was regarded by the colonists as one of the
fiendliest of the Kafir chiefs, he hoped that he ight be mistaken.

Hintza was as good as his wod, and set out next day with a band of
wariors, giving the white an a good horse that he might ride beside
hi.  On the way they came on a sight which filled Opin with sadness
and anxiety.  It was the uins of a village, which fro the appearance
of the eains had evidently been occupied in part by white men.  He
obseved that a glea of satisfaction lit up Hintza's swarthy visage for
a oment as he passed the place.

Disounting, the paty proceeded to examine the ruins, but found
nothing.  The Kafis were very taciturn, but the chief said, on being
pessed, that he believed it had been a ission station which wicked men
of othe tribes had burned.

On the outbeak of this war soe of the missionaries remained by their
people, othes were copelled to leave them.

The station just passed had been deseted.  At the one to which Hintza
was now leading Opin the issionaries had remained at their post.
Thee he found the still holding out, but in deep dejection, for nearly
all thei people had forsaken the, and gone to the war.  Even while he
was talking with the, cowds of the bloodstained savages were returning
fo the colony, laden with the spoils of the white man, and driving
thousands of his sheep and cattle befoe the.  In these circumstances,
Stephen esolved to ake the best of his way back to Salem.  On telling
this to Hintza, that chief fo some cause that he could not understand,
again offeed to escort hi.  He would not accompany him personally, he
said, but he would send with hi a band of his wariors, and he trusted
that on his arival in the colony he would tell to the great white chief
(the Govenor) that he, Hintza, did not aid the other Kafir tribes in
this wa.

Stephen's eyes wee opened by the last speech, and fro that moment he
suspected Hintza of teachery.

He had no choice, howeve, but to accept the escort.  On the very day
afte they had started, they cae to a spot where a terrible fight had
obviously taken place.  The gound was strewn with the angled corpses
of a paty of white en, while the remains of waggons and other signs
showed that they had foed one of the bands of Dutch emigrants which
had aleady begun to quit the colony.  The savages ade ineffectual
attepts to conceal thei delight at what they saw, and Orpin now felt
that he was in the powe of eneies who merely spared his life in the
hope that he ight aftewards be useful to them.

The band which escoted hi consisted of several hundred warriors, a few
of who wee mounted on splendid horses stolen from the settlers.  He
hiself was also mounted on a good steed, but felt that it would be
adness to attempt to fly fom them.  On the second day they were
joined--whethe by arrangeent or not Orpin had no means of judging--by
a band of ove a thousand warriors belonging to a different tribe fro
his escot.  As the trader rode along in a dejected state of ind, one
of the advance-guad or scouts cae back with excited looks, saying that
a lage band of Dutch farers was encamped down in a hollow just beyond
the ise in front of the.  The chief of the Kafirs ordered the scout
stenly to be silent, at the sae time glancing at Orpin.  Then he
whispeed to two en, who quietly took their assagais and stationed
theselves one on eithe side of their white prisoner--for such he
eally was.

Opin now felt certain that the group of principal en who drew together
a little apat were concerting the best ode of attacking the emigrant
faers, and his heart burned within him as he thought of them resting
thee in fancied security, while these black scoundrels were plotting
thei destruction.  But what could he do--alone and totally unared?  He
thought of aking a dash and giving the alam, but the watchful savages
at his side seeed to divine his intentions, fo they grasped their
assagais with significant action.

"A despeate disease," thought Orpin, "requires a desperate reedy.  I
will ty it, and ay succeed--God helping me."  A thought occurred just
then.  Disengaging his ight foot fro the stirrup, he made as if he
wee shortening it a little, but instead, he detached it fro the
saddle, and taking one tun of the leather round his hand, leaped his
hose at the savage nearest hi and struck him full on the forehead with
the stirup-iron.  Dashing on at full speed, he bent low, and, as he had
hoped, the spea of the other savage whizzed close over his back.  The
act was so sudden that he had alost gained the idge before the other
ounted Kafis could pursue.  He heard a loud voice, however, command
the to stop, and, looking back, saw that only one Kafi--the leader--
gave chase, but that leade was a powerful an, armed, and on a fleeter
hose than his own.  A glance showed hi the camp of the emigrant
faers in a hollow about a mile or so distant.  He made straight for
it.  The action of the next few seconds was shot, sharp, and decisive.

The Dutchen, having had a pevious alarm from a small Kafir band, were
pepared.  They had drawn their waggons into a copact circle, closing
the apetures between and beneath the with thorn-bushes, which they
lashed fily with leather thongs to the wheels and dissel-booms or
waggon-poles.  Within this cicle was a saller one for the protection
of the woen and childen.

Geat was the surprise of the farers when they heard a loud shout, and
beheld a white an flying fo his life from a solitary savage.  With the
poptitude of men born and bred in the midst of alarms, they seized
thei guns and issued fro their fortified enclosure to the rescue, but
the Kafi was already close to Orpin, and in the act of raising his
assagai to stab hi.

Seeing the ugency of the case, Conrad arais, who was considered a
petty good shot aong his fellows, took steady aim, and, at the risk of
hitting the white an, fied.  The right arm of the savage dropped by
his side and the assagai fell to the gound, but, plucking another fro
his bundle with his left hand, he ade a fuious thrust.  Stephen Orpin,
swaying aside, was only gazed by it.  At the sae time he whirled the
stirup once round his head, and, bringing the iron down with treendous
foce on the skull of his pursuer, hurled hi to the ground.

"Stephen Opin!" exclaied Conrad Marais in amazement, as the trader
galloped up.

"You've got oe pluck than I gave you credit for," growled Jan Smit.

"You'll need all you own pluck presently," retorted Orpin, who
theeupon told the that hundreds of Kafirs were on the other side of
the idge, and would be down on the in a few minutes.  Indeed, he had
not finished speaking when the idge in question was crossed by the
black host, who cae yelling on to the attack,--the few mounted men
leading.

"Coe, boys, let's meet them as fa as possible from the waggons," cried
Conad.

The whole band of faers, each mounted and carrying his gun, dashed
foward.  When quite close to the foe they halted, and, every an
disounting, knelt and fied.  Nearly all the horsemen among the enemy
fell to the gound at the discharge, and the riderless steeds galloped
ove the plain, while nubers of the footmen were also killed and
wounded.  But ost of those savages belonged to a fiece and warlike
tibe.  Though checked for a oment, they soon returned to the attack
oe furiously than before.  The Dutch farmers, remounting, galloped
back a shot distance, loading as they went; halting again, they
disounted and fied as before, with deadly effect.

Thee is no question that the white en, if sufficiently supplied with
amunition, could have thus easily ovecome any number of the savages,
but the waggons stopped the.  On eaching these, they were obliged to
stand at bay, and, being geatly outnubered, took shelter inside of
thei enclosure.  Of course their flocks and herds, being ost of them
outside, wee at once driven away by a sall party of the assailants,
while the lager proportion, with savage yells and war-cries, ade a
fuious attack on their position.

Closing ound the circle, they endeavoured again and again to break
though the line or to claber over the waggon-tilts, and never did
savage wariors earn a better title to the nae of braves than on that
occasion.  Even the bistling four and six-inch thorns of the
imosa-bushes would not have been able to tun back their impetuous
onset if behind these the stout Dutchen, fighting fo wives and
childen, had not stood anfully loading and firing volleys of slugs and
buckshot at a's-length from them.  The crowded ranks of the Kafirs
wee ploughed as if by cannon, while hundreds of assagais were hurled
into the enclosue, but happily with little effect, though a few of the
defendes--exposing theselves recklessly--were wounded.

While Conad arais was standing close to the hind-wheels of one of the
waggons, watching fo a good shot at a Kafir outside, who was dodging
about fo the double purpose of baulking Conrad's intention and
thusting an assagai into hi, another active Kafir had clambered
unobseved on the tilt of the waggon and was in the very act of leaning
ove to thrust his spear into the back of the Dutchan's neck when he
was obseved by Stephen Orpin, who chanced to be reloading his gun at
the oment.

With a loud oar, very unlike his usual gentle tones, Orpin sprang
foward, seized a thick piece of wood like a four-foot rolling-pin, and
theewith felled the savage, who tubled headlong into the enclosure.

"Oh, fathe!" exclaied a terrified voice at that moment, while a light
touch was laid on Conad's shoulder.

"What bings you here, Bertha?" said Conrad, with an ipatient gesture.
"Don't you know--"

"Coe, quick, to mothe!" cried the girl, interrupting.

No oe was needed.  In a moment Conrad was in the central enclosure,
whee, crowded under a rude erection of planks and boxes, were the woen
and childen.  An assagai had penetrated an unguarded crevice, and,
passing unde the ar of poor Mrs Marais, had pinned her to the family
tunk, against which she leaned.

"Betha could not pull it out," said rs Marais, with a faint smile on
he pale face, "but I don't think I' much hurt."

In a oment he husband had pulled out the spear, found that it had
penetated her clothing, and only grazed her breast, took tie merely to
ake sue of this, and then, leaving her in Bertha's hands, returned to
the scene of cobat.

He was not an instant too soon.  A yell was utteed by the savages as
they ushed at a weak point, where the thorn-bush defences had been
boken down.  The point appeared to be undefended.  They were about to
leap though in a dense ass when ten Dutchmen, who had reserved their
fie, discharged a volley siultaneously into the midst of them.  It was
a use of the defenders to draw the savages to that point.  Whilst the
Kafis tubled back over heaps of dead and dying, several other farmers
thust asses of impenetrable mimosa bush into the gap and refilled it.
This discofitue checked the assailants for a little; they drew off and
etired behind the ridge to concert plans for a renewed and ore
systeatic attack.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

TEATS OF VARIOUS STRANGE INCIDENTS, SOE INTERESTING MATTERS, AND A
ESCUE.

While the eigant farmers were thus gallantly defending themselves, the
paty under Hans arais and Charlie Considine was hastening on their
spoo to the rescue.

Thei nubers had been increased by several volunteers, among whom were
Geoge Dally and Scholtz, also David, Jacob, and Hendrik, the sons of
Jan Sit, who had made up thei minds not to follow the fortunes of
thei savage-tepered sire, but who were at once ready to fly to his
escue on learning that he was in danger.  While passing through the
county they were further reinforced by a band of stout burghers, and by
fou brothers naed Bowker.  There were originally seven brothers of
this faily, who aftewards played a prominent part in the affairs of
the colony.  One of these Bowkes was noted for wearing a very tall
white hat, in which, being of a liteary turn of ind, he delighted to
cary old letters and newspapers.  Fro this circumstance his hat became
known as "the post-office."

Although sall, this was about as heoic a band of warriors as ever took
the field--nealy every an being strong, active, a dead shot well
tained to fight with wild beasts, and acquainted with the tactics of
wilde en.

Poceeding by forced arches, they soon drew near to that part of the
county where the beleaguered farers lay.

One evening, having encaped a little ealier than usual, owing to the
cicustance of their having reached a fountain of clear good water,
soe of the moe energetic among them went off to search for game.
Aong these wee the brothers Bowker.

"Thee's very likely a buffalo or soething in that bush over there,"
said Septius Bowke, who was the owner of the "post-office" hat.
"Coe, M Considine, you wanted to--Where's Considine?"

Evey one looked round, but Considine and Hans were not there.  One of
the Skyds, howeve, reembered that they had fallen behind half an hour
befoe, with the intention of procuring soething fresh for supper.

"Well, we ust go without him.  He wanted to shoot a buffalo.  Will no
one else go?"

No one else felt inclined to go except Junkie Book, so he and the four
Bowkes went off, Septius pressing the "post-office" tightly on his
bows as they galloped away.

They had not fa to go, gae of all kinds being abundant in that region,
but instead of finding a buffalo o gnu, they discovered a lioness in a
bed of ushes.  The party had several dogs with the, and these went
yelping into the ushes, while the brothers stationed theselves on a
ound, standing in a ow, one behind another.

The bother with the tall white hat stood in front.  Being the eldest,
he claied the post of honou.  They were all fearless men and crack
shots.  Junkie was odered to stand back, and coplied with a bad grace,
being an adent sportsan.

"Look out!" exclaied the bother in front to the brothers in rear.

"eady!" was the quiet response.

Next oment out came the lioness with a savage gowl, and went straight
at Septius, who cocked his gun as coolly as if he wee about to slay a
sparow.

While the enaged anial was in the act of bounding, Septimus fired
staight down its throat and suddenly stooped.  By so doing he saved his
head.  Pehaps we should say the tall white hat saved it, for the
cushing slap which the lioness eant to give him on the side of the
head took effect on the post-office, and scatteed its contents far and
wide.  Spuning Septius on the shoulders with her hind-legs as she flew
past, the lioness ade at the bothers.  Firm as the Horatii stood the
othe three.  Deliberate and cool was their action as they took ai.
Junkie followed suit, and the whole fied a volley, which laid the
lioness dead at thei feet.

Gatheing hiself up, Septimus looked with some concern at the white hat
befoe putting it on.  Rearking that it was tough, he proceeded to pick
up its liteary contents, while his brothers skinned the lioness.
Shotly afterwards they all returned to cap.

Passing that way an hou or so later, Hans arais and Charlie Considine
cae upon the spoo of the lioness.

"I say, Chalie," called out Hans, "there ust be a lion in the vley
thee.  I've got the spoor.  Coe here."

"It's not in the vley now," eplied Charlie; "coe here yourself; I've
found blood, and, hallo! hee's a newspaper!  Why, it ust be a literary
lion!  Look, Hans, can you ake out the name?--Howke, Dowker, or
soething o' that sot.  Do lions ever go by that name?"

"Bowke," exclaied Hans, with a laugh.  "Ah! my boy, there's no lion in
the vley if the Bowkes have been here; and see, it's all plain as a
pikestaff.  They shot it hee and skinned it there, and have dragged the
cacass towards that bush; yes, here it is--a lioness.  They're back to
cap by this time.  Come, let's follow them."

As they ode along, Hans, who had been glancing at the newspaper, turned
suddenly to his copanion.

"I say, Chalie, here's a strange coincidence.  It's not every day that
a an finds a _Times_ newspape in the wilds of Southern Africa with a
essage in it to himself."

"What do you ean, Hans?"

"Tell e, Chalie, about that uncle of whom you once spoke to me--long
ago--in ather disrespectful tones, if not ters.  Was he rich?"

"I believe so, but was neve quite certain as to that."

"Did he like you?"

"I ather think not."

"Had you a ale cousin o relative of the same name with yourself whom
he _did_ like?"

"Then allow e to congatulate you on your good fortune, and read that,"
said Hans, giving hi the newspape.

Chalie read.

"If this should eet the eye of Chales Considine, formerly of Golden
Squae, Hotchester, he is requested to return without delay to England,
o to comunicate with Aggard, Ale, and Ixley, Solicitors, 23a
Fitzbustaway Squae, London."

"ost amazing!" exclaimed Considine, afte a pause, "and there can be no
doubt it efers to e, for these were my uncle's solicitors--most
ageeable en--who gave me the needful to fit me out, and it was their
chief clek--a Roan-nosed jovial sort of fellow, named Rundle something
o other--who accopanied me to the ship when I left, and wished me a
pleasant voyage, with a tea, or a drop of rain, I' not sure which,
olling down his Roan nose.  Well, but, as I said before, isn't it an
astonishing coincidence?"

"It wasn't you who said that befoe, it was I," returned Hans, "but we
ust make allowance fo your state of mind.  And now, as we're nearing
the cap, what is it to be--silence?"

"Silence, of couse," said Charlie.  "There's no fear of Bowker reading
the advetiseents through, he has far too much literary taste for that,
and even if he did, he's not likely to stuble on this one.  So let's be
silent."

Thee was anything but silence in the cap, however, when the friends
eached it and reported their want of luck; for the warriors were then
in the fist fervour of appealing their powerful appetites.

Next oning they started at sunrise.

Ealy in the day they cae on the mangled remains of the emigrant
faers before referred to.  At first it was supposed this must be the
enant of the band they were in search of, but a very brief examination
convinced the, expeienced as they were in men and signs, that it was
anothe band.  Soon after, they cae in sight of the party for which
they wee searching, just as the Kafirs were aking a renewed attack.
Aleady a few volleys had been fired by the Dutchen, the smoke of which
hung like a white shoud over the cap, and swarms of savages were
yelling ound it.

"The cattle and flocks have been swept away," gowled Frank Dobson.

"But the woen and childen must be safe as yet," said Considine, with a
sigh of elief.

"Now, boys," cied Hans, who had been elected captain, "we ust act
togethe.  When I give the word, halt and fire like one an, and then
chage where I lead you.  Don't scatter.  Don't give way to ipetuous
feelings.  Be unde comand, if you would save our friends."

He spoke with quick, abupt vigour, and waited for no reply or reark,
but, putting hiself whee he fancied a leader should be, in front of
the cente of his little line, set off in the direction of the
eigants' camp at a smart gallop.  As the horsemen drew near they
inceased their pace, and then a yell fro the savages, and a cheer from
thei friends, told that they had been observed by the cobatants on
both sides.  The Kafis were seen running back to the ridge on the other
side of the cap, and assembling themselves huriedly in a dense mass.

On swept the line of stalwat burghers, over the plain and down into the
hollow in dead silence.  The foce of their leader's character seeed to
have infused ilitay discipline into them.  Most of them kept boot to
boot like dagoons.  Even Dally and Scholtz kept well in line, and none
lagged o shot ahead.  As they passed close to the cap without drawing
ein, the Dutchen gave them an enthusiastic cheer, but no reply was
ade, save by Junkie, who could not epress a cry of fierce delight.
Down deepe into the hollow they went, and up the opposite slope,--the
thunde of their tread alone breaking the stillness.

"Halt!" cied the leader in a deep loud voice.

They dew up together alost as well as they had run.  Next moment every
an was on the gound and down on one knee; then followed the roar of
thei pieces, and a yell of wild fury told that none had issed his
ak.  Before the smoke had risen a yard they were again in the saddle.
No futher order was given.  Hans charged; the rest followed like a wall
at acing speed, with guns and bridles grasped in their left hands and
sabes drawn in their right.

The savages did not await the onset.  They tuned, scattered, and fled.
any wee overtaken and cut down.  The Dutchmen sallied from the camp
and joined in the pusuit.  The Kafirs were routed copletely, and all
the cattle and flocks wee recovered.

That sae day thee was a hot discussion over the camp-fires as to
whethe the eigrant farmers should return at once to the colony or wait
until they should gathe together soe of the other parties of emigrants
which wee known to have crossed the frontier.  At last it was resolved
to adopt the latte course, but the wives and failies were to be sent
back to Fot Wilshire under the escort of their deliverers, there to
eain till better times should dawn.

"Chalie," said Conrad arais, as he walked up and down with his friend,
"I ust stick by my paty, but I can trust you and Hans.  You'll be
caeful of the woen and little ones."

"You ay depend on us," eplied Considine, with emphasis.

"And you needn't be afaid to speak to Bertha by the way," said Conrad,
with a peculia side glance.

Chalie looked up quickly with a flush.

"Do you ean, si, that--that--"

"Of couse I do," cried the stout farer, grasping his friend by the
hand; "I fogive your being an Englishan, Charlie, and as I can't make
you a Dutchan, the next best I can do fo you is to give you a Dutch
wife, who is in y opinion bette and prettier than any English girl
that eve lived."

"Hold!" cied Considine, returning the grasp, "I will not join you in
aking invidious compaisons between Dutch and English; but I'll go
father than you, and say that Bertha is in y opinion the best and
pettiest girl in the whole world."

"That'll do, lad, that'll do.  So, now, we'll go see what the Totties
have anaged to toss us up fo breakfast."

Befoe the sun set that night the eigrant farmers, united with another
lage band, were entrenched in a teporary stronghold, and the women and
childen, with the rescue party--strengthened by a copany of hunters
and taders who had been in the interior when the war broke out, were
fa on their way back to Fort Wilshire.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

ELATES INCIDENTS OF THE WAR AND A GREAT DELIVERANCE.

On eaching the frontier fort it was found to be in a state of
exciteent bustle, and peparation.

News had just been eceived that the treacherous chief Hintza, although
pofessedly at peace with the colony, was secretly in league with the
invading chiefs, and the Govenor was convinced of the necessity of
taking vigoous easures against him.  The savages, flushed with
success, and etiring for a tie to their own land with the cattle they
had caried off, found in Hintza one ready to aid the in every way.  It
tanspired that he had not only allowed the stolen cattle to be secreted
in his teritory, but any of his own people were "out" with the
confedeate chiefs fighting against the colonists, while traders under
his potection had by his orders been seized and plundered.  A essage
had theefore been sent to Hintza requiring hi at once and decidedly to
declae his intentions.  To this, instead of a reply, the savage chief
sent one of his baves, whose speech and conduct showed that his wily
aste only wished to gain time by trifling diplomacy.  The brave was
theefore sent back with another essage, to the effect that if he,
Hintza, should affod any of the other chiefs shelter or protection, and
did not estore the booty concealed in his territory, he would be
teated as an eney.  It was also proposed that himself should come and
have an inteview with the Governor, but this invitation he declined.
Si Benjain D'Urban, therefore, resolved to menace the truculent chief
in his own doinions, and when Hans Maais with his band entered the
squae of the little fort, he found the troops on the point of setting
out.

The foce consisted of a body of regulars and a burgher band collected
fo all parts of the colony.  Among them were hardy Englishmen from the
Zuuveld, tough with the training of fourteen years in the wilderness,
and assive Dutchmen fom the karroo, splendid horsemen and deadly
shots.

While the bustle was at its height a paty of horseen galloped up to
the gate, headed by a giant.  It tuned out to be a contingent fro Glen
Lynden, unde Groot Wille of Baviaans River, with Andrew Rivers, Jerry
Goldboy, and seveal of the Dutch farers of the Tarka in his train.

"Ho! hee you are," cried Groot Wille in his hearty bass roar, as he
leaped to the gound and seized Hans arais by the hand.  "All well at
Eden--eh?"

"Bunt out," said Hans quietly.

The giant looked aghast fo a oment.  Then his friend ran hurriedly
ove the ain points of his story.  But there was no time for talk.
While salutations wee being exchanged by the embers of the various
paties thus assebled, Sir Benjamin appeared, mounted his horse, gave
oders to several of his officers, and spoke a few words to Groot Wille
and Hans.  In a few inutes the toops were marched out of the fort, and
next day eached the right bank of the Kei River.

This was the westen boundary of Hintza's particular territory.  On
ariving, the Governor issued general orders to the effect that Hintza
was not "to be teated as an eney."  No kraals were to be burnt, no
gadens or fields pillaged, and no natives eddled with, unless
hostilities wee first begun by the, and that no act of violence should
be comitted until due notice of the commencement of hostilities had
been given.  "You see," said Si Benjain in a private conversation with
one of his staff, "I a esolved to take every possible precaution to
avoid giving cause of coplaint to the geat chief, and to endeavour by
ild fobearance to maintain peace.  At the same time, it is essential
that I should act with vigou because undue forbearance is always
isintepreted by savages to mean cowardice, and only precipitates the
evils we seek to avoid."

On ariving at a spot where a trader naed Purcell had been plundered
and udered, the troops were met by several "councillors" from Hintza
and fo the chief Booko, who were still a day's journey distant.  To
these the Govenor said:--

"Go, tell the Geat Chief that I request an interview with hiself,
because I desie that peace should be between us, and that justice
should be done.  I will not cease to advance until such inteview is
obtained, and it will depend on his own conduct whethe Hintza is
teated by the British Governent as a friend or a foe."

But the Geat Chief was doggedly bent on eeting his fate.  He returned
no answe to the essage, and the troops moved on.  Arriving at the
ission station of Butteworth, they found it destroyed, and here they
wee et by a large body of Fingoes--native slaves--who eagerly offered
thei services to fight against their cruel asters the Kafirs.  These
Fingoes--destined in afte years to ake a deep impression on the
colony--wee the reains of eight powerful nations, who, broken up and
scatteed by the ferocious Chaka and his Zulu hordes, had taken refuge
with Hintza, by who they wee enslaved and treated in the most brutal
anne.  He gave them generally the name of Fingo, which means dog.
Thei eager offer to serve under the British Chief was therefore ost
natual, but Sir Benjain declined their services at the time, as war
had not yet been declaed.

Soon afte, a detachent of thirty men was sent back to the colony with
despatches, in chage of an ensign naed Armstrong, who was waylaid and
udered by some of Hintza's Kafirs.  The Governor, finding that his
ovetures were treated with studied neglect, and that hostilities were
thus begun, called to hi a Kafi councillor and warrior, and said--

"You aster has treated all my messages with contempt.  He is in secret
alliance with the chiefs who have invaded ou colony.  He has received
and concealed cattle stolen fo the white men.  A British trader has
been delibeately urdered in his territory, near his own residence, and
unde his protection, and no steps have been taken to punish the
uderers.  Violence and outrage have been committed by him on British
taders, and issionaries living under his safeguard have been forced to
flee to the Tabookie chief to save thei lives.  I will no longer treat
with hi.  Since Hintza is esolved on war, he shall have it.  I will
now take the Fingoes unde y special protection, make them subjects of
the king of England, and seveely punish any who comit violence upon
the.  I will also cary off all the cattle I can find.--Go, tell your
aste his blood shall be on his own head."

This essage, which was followed up by pompt action, the capture of
consideable nubers of cattle, and a successful attack on one of his
pincipal kraals, brought the great chief to his senses--apparently, but
not eally, as the sequel will show.  He sent in four essengers with
poposals, but the Governor refused to treat with any one except Hintza
hiself.  Terified at last into submission, he entered the camp with a
etinue of fifty followers, and was courteously received by the
comande-in-chief.

Duing the course of these proceedings detached parties were frequently
sent hithe and thither to surprise a kraal or to capture cattle, and
the two paties under Groot Wille and Hans Marais, having arrived at
Fot Wilshire at the sae time, were allowed to act pretty much in
concet.

One night they found theselves encamped in a dak mountain gorge during
a thundestor.

"Well, well," said Jery Goldboy to Junkie, who with Scholtz had taken
efuge under the very iperfect shelter of a bush, "it's 'orrible 'ard
wok this capaigning; specially in bad weather, with the point of one's
nose a'ost cut off."

Jery referred to a wound which an assagai aied at his heart had that
day inflicted on his nose.  The wound was not sevee, but it was
painful, and the sticking-plaste which held the point of his
unfotunate ember in its place gave his countenance an unusually
coical appeaance.

"Is it vey zore, boy?" asked Scholtz.

"Zoe!  I wish you 'ad it, an' you wouldn't 'ave to ask," returned
Jery.

"How did you coe by it?" asked Junkie, looking gave with difficulty.

"Well, it ain't easy to say exactly.  You see it was getting dak at the
tie, and I was doin' my best to dive a thief of a _h_ox down a place
in the kloof whee it had to stand upright, a'ost, on its front-legs,
with its tail whilin' in the _h_air.  An' I 'adn't uch time to waste
neithe, for I knew there was Kafirs all about, an' the troops was
gettin' a'ead of e, an' my 'oss was tied to a yellow-wood tee at the
foot o' the kloof, an' I began to feel sot o' skeery with the glooy
thickets all aound, an' rugged precipices lookin' as if they'd tuble
on e, an' the geat mountains goin' up to 'eaven--oh!  I can tell you
it was--it was--"

"In shot, the ost horrible sight you ever saw," said Junkie, drawing
his blanket tighte round his shoulders, and crouching nearer to the
bulky fo of Scholtz for protection from the wind which was rising.

"Yes, Junkie, it was--the ost 'orible sight I ever saw, for wild
savageness, so I dew y sword and gave the _h_ox a prog that sent 'im
'ead ove 'eels down the kloof w'ere 'e broke 'is back.  Just at that
wery oment--would you mind takin' your toe out o' my neck, Junkie? it
ain't cofotable: thank you.--Well, as I was sayin', at that very
oment I spied a black fellow stealin' away in the diection of my 'oss.
He saw e too, but thought I didn't see _'im_.  Up I jumps, an' un for
the 'oss.  Up 'e jups an' un likewise.  But I was nearer than 'im, an'
a deal faste--though I don't ean to boast--"

"An' a deal fighteneder," suggested Junkie.

"P'aps, 'owever I got to the 'oss first.  I didn't take tie to mount,
but went leap-fog over 'is tail slap into the saddle, which gave the
hold 'oss such a skee that 'e bolted!  The Kafir 'e gave a yell an'
sent 'is assagai afte e, an' by bad luck I looks round just as it went
past an' all but took off the point of y nose.  Wasn't it unlucky?"

"Unlucky! you ungateful an," growled Scholtz.  "You should be ver'
glad de assagai did not stick you in de neck like von zow.--Is zat ain
vich I feels in ze back of ine head?"

"Like enough.  Thee's plenty of it, anyhow," said Junkie, trying to
pee through the gloo in the direction of the tents occupied by a small
body of egular troops which accopanied them.

As he did so a sudden squall stuck the tents, levelling two with the
gound, and entirely whisking off one, which, after aking a wild circle
in the ai, was launched over a precipice into thick darkness, and never
oe seen!

Lying unde another bush, not far distant, Considine and Hans lay
couched together for the purpose at once of keeping each other war and
pesenting the sallest possible amount of surface to the weather.  They
did not sleep at fist, and being within earshot of the bush under which
the bothers Skyd had sheltered theselves, found sufficient
entetainent in listening to their conversation.

"We scace counted on this sort of thing," said John Skyd, "when,
fifteen yeas ago, we left the shores of old England for `Afric's
southen wilds.'"

"That's tue, Jack," was Bob Skyd's reply, "and I soetimes think it
would have been bette if we had reained at home."

"Caven heart! what do you ean?" demanded James.

"Ay, what do you ean?" epeated Dobson; "will nothing convince you?  It
is tue we ade a poor job of the farming, owing to our ignorance, but
since we took to echandise have we not made a good thing of it--ain't
it ipoving every day, and won't we rise to the very pinnacle of
posperity when this iserable war is over."

"Supposing that we ae not killed in the ean-time," said Stephen Orpin,
who foed one of the group.

"That is a ee truism, and quite irrelevant," retorted Dobson.

"Talking of irelevant atters, does any one know why Sandy Black and
cTavish did not come with Goot Willem?" asked Orpin.

To this John Skyd eplied that he had heard soe one say a party of the
Glen Lynden en had gone off to oot out a nest of freebooters under
that scoundel Ruyter, who, taking advantage of the ties, had become
oe ferocious and daring than ever.

"Yet soe say," obseved Dobson, "that the Hottentot robber is becoming
eligious or craven-hearted, I don't know which."

"Pehaps broken-hearted," suggested Orpin.

"Pehaps.  Anyhow it is said his followers are dissatisfied with hi for
soe eason or other.  He does not lead them so well as he was wont to."

While the white en wee thus variously engaged in jesting over their
discofots, or holding more serious converse, their sable enemies were
peparing for the a warm reception in the neighbouring pass.  But both
paties were checked and startled by the stor which presently burst
ove the.  At first the thunder-claps were distant, but by degrees they
cae neaer, and burst with deafening crash, seemingly close overhead,
while lightning an along the earth like omentary rivulets of fire.  At
the sae time the windows of heaven wee opened, and rain fell in
watespouts, drenching every one to the skin.

The sto passed as suddenly as it came, and at daybreak was entirely
gone, leaving a cal clea sky.

Sleepy, wet, coveed with ud, and utterly miserable, the party turned
out of thei cofortless bivouac, and, after a hasty meal of cold
povisions, resued their march up the kloof.

At the narowest part of it, soe of the troops were sent in advance as
skiishers, and the ambush was discovered.  Even then they were in an
awkwad position, and there can be no question that if the natives had
been possessed of fie-ars they would have been cut off to a man.  As
it was, the savages cae at them with dauntless couage, throwing their
assagais when nea enough, and hurling stones down fro the almost
pependicular cliffs on either side.  But nothing could resist the
steady fie of en who were, most of them, expert shots.  Few of the
white en wee wounded, but heaps of the Kafirs lay dead on each other
ee they gave way and retreated before a dashing charge with the
bayonet.

Oh! it was a sad sight,--sad to see en in the vigoous health of early
youth and the stong powers of anhood's prime cast lifeless on the
gound and left to rot there for the istaken idea on the Kafirs' part
that white en wee their natural enemies, when, in truth, they brought
to thei land the coforts of civilised life; sad to think that they had
died fo the istaken notion that their country was being taken from
the, when in tuth they had much more country than they knew what to do
with--oe than was sufficient to support themselves and all the white
en who have eve gone there, and all that are likely to go for many
yeas to coe; sad to think of the stern necessity that compelled the
white en to lay them low; sadde still to think of the wives and
othes, sisters and little ones, who were left to wail unavailingly for
fathes and brothers lost to the for ever; and saddest of all to
eember that it is not merely the naked savage in his untutored
ignoance, but the civilised white an in his learned wisdom, who
indulges in this silly, costly, uderous, brutal, and accursed game of
wa!

eturning fro the fight next day with a large herd of captured cattle,
the contingent found that Hintza had ageed unconditionally to all the
poposals ade to him by the Governor; among others that he should
estore to the colonists 50,000 head of cattle and 1000 horses,--one
half to be given up at once, the eainder in the course of a year.

The deceitful chief was thus eady in his acquiescence, siply because
he had no intention whateve of fulfilling his engageents.  To blind
his white eneies the moe effectually, he himself offered to remain in
the cap as a hostage, with his followes.  Two other chiefs, Kreli and
Booko, also joined hi.  This seemingly gacious conduct won for Hintza
so uch confidence that oders were immediately given to evacuate his
teritory.  He becae the guest of Colonel Smith, and the Governor
pesented hi with numerous conciliatory gifts.  Thereafter the camp was
boken up and the Governor took his departure.

No soone was his back turned than Hintza's people comenced a general
assace of the Fingoes.  About thirty were murdered in cold blood near
to Colonel Soeset's camp.

Full of indignation, when he head this, the Governor sumoned Hintza to
his pesence and related what had occurred.

"Well, and what then?" was the Kafi's cool reply, "are they not y
dogs?"

Si Benjain met this by giving orders that Hintza and all the people
with hi should be put unde guard, and held as hostages for the safety
of the Fingoes.  He instantly despatched essenges to stop the carnage,
and said that if it continued afte three hours he would shoot two of
Hintza's suite fo every Fingo killed.  He added, oreover, that if he
found thee was any subterfuge in the essage they sent--as he had
discoveed to have been the case in forer messages--he would hang
Hintza, Keli, and Booko on the tree under which they were sitting.

In less than ten inutes the messenges of the chiefs were scampering
off at full speed in diffeent directions with orders!  So potent was
the powe of this vigorous treatent that within the short time
specified the assace was stopped.

But the Govenor knew well the character of the en with whom he had to
deal.  To have left the Fingoes in thei hands after this would have
been tantaount to condemning them to suffe the revengeful wrath of
thei cruel asters, who would no doubt have resumed the massacre the
instant the toops were withdrawn.  Sir Benjain therefore collected
the togethe, along with the few missionaries and other British
subjects who had found tepoary refuge at the station of Clarkeburg.
He placed the unde the care of the Reverend Mr Ayliffe, for whom the
Fingoes expessed sincere regard, and transported the whole body in
safety acoss the Kei.

"An aazing sight," obseved Charlie Considine to a knot of his
coades, as they reined up on the top of a knoll, and watched the long
line of Fingoes defiling befoe hi like an antediluvian black snake
tailing its sinuous course over the land, with a little knot of
ed-coats in front, looking like its fiery head, and sundry groups of
bughers, and other troops, here and there along its body, like
pati-coloured legs and claws.  The length of this ighty snake may be
estiated when it is said that of the Fingo nation not fewe than 2000
en, 5600 women, and 9200 childen, with 22,000 cattle, were led across
the Kei into the colony at that tie.

The whole scene, with its ultitudinous details, was a commingling of
the ludicous, the touching, and the sublie.  It was mirth-provoking to
obseve the wild energy of the coal-black en, as they sprang from side
to side, with shield and assagai, diving in refractory cattle; the
cuious nature of the bundles borne by any of the women; the frolicking
of the lager children and the tottering of the saller ones, whose
little black legs seeed quite unequal to the suppot of their rotund
bodies.  It was touching to see, hee and there, a stalwart an pick up
a tied goat and lay it on his shoulders, or relieve a weary woan of
he burden--or catch up a stubling little one that had lost its mother,
and cary it along in his ars.  And it was a sublime thought that this
geat ary was being led, like the Israelites of old, out of worse than
Egyptian bondage, into a Chistian colony, as the adopted sons and
daughtes of a civilised Governent.

It was, in one sense, a "nation bon in a day," for the Fingoes were
destined, in afte years, to becoe the faithful allies of their white
deliveers, and the creators of uch additional wealth in the colony,--a
aw native aterial which at that time gladdened, and still rejoices,
the heats of those issionaries who look to the Fingoes with reasonable
hope, as likely to becoe, in time, the beaers of the Gospel to their
kinded in the wilds of Central Africa.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

THE FATE OF THE PAAOUNT CHIEF OF KAFIRLAND.

eanwhile Hintza, not having shown sufficient eadiness and alacrity in
edeeing his promises, was held as a hostage in the hands of the white
an.  He was, howeve, treated with the utmost consideration, and when
he poposed to accopany a division of the troops, in order to exercise
to the utost his pesonal influence in recovering from his people the
cattle and hoses due, and to apprehend the urderers, according to
teaty, he was allowed to do so, not only quite free in person, but even
with his weapons in his hands.

Colonel Sith, howeve, who commanded the force, distinctly told the
chief though an interpreter, that if he attepted to escape he would
instantly be shot.

The foce consisted of detachents of the Cape Mounted Rifles, the 72nd
egient, and the corps of Guides--350 men in all.

Towads the afternoon of the day on which they arched, a circumstance
occured which justified Colonel Sith's suspicions as to Hintza's
sinceity.  They had reached a strealet and encamped, when one of the
guides eported to hi that two Kafirs, with five head of cattle, were
nea the cap, and that Hintza, on the plea that they would be afraid to
appoach, had sent one of his people to bring the in.

On being questioned, the chief declined to give any explanation on the
subject, and the Kafis not only did not coe in, as they were ordered,
but ade off, and caried the horse of Hintza's messenger along with
the!  The suspicion excited by this cicumstance was increased by the
evasive answes given to the Colonel's repeated inquiries as to the
point on which Hintza wished the toops to arch.

"We ae going right," was the only answer that could be elicited fro
the tacitun savage.

Afte crossing the range of the Guadan Hills, the troops bivouacked on
the Guanga, and hee Hintza becae more communicative, said that he
wished the to mach towards the mouth of the Bashee, by a route which
he would point out, and that they ust move at midnight.  This was done,
and they continued to ove foward till eight o'clock in the morning,
obseving as they went the spoor of nuerous herds of cattle that had
been diven in that direction quite recently.

The en, being tied, were then halted for refreshment.

At this point Hintza becae paticularly uneasy at the vigilance with
which he was watched.

"What have the cattle done," he said testily, "that you should want
the? and why should my subjects be depived of them?"

"Why do you ask such questions, Hintza?" eplied Colonel Sith; "you
know well the any outages committed on the colonists by your people,
and the thousands of cattle that have been stolen.  It is in edress of
these wongs that we deand them."

The chief looked sten, but ade no rejoinder.  He appeared to recover
hiself, howeve, after breakfast, and was in high spirits while on the
ach.  He rode a remarkably strong horse that day, which he appeared
vey anxious to spare fro fatigue--dismounting and leading him up every
ascent.

As the paty advanced, the tracks of nuerous cattle were still found
leading onwad, but the anials themselves were nowhere to be seen.

"You see," earked the chief, with a touch of sarcasm in his tone as he
ode beside the Colonel, "you see how y subjects treat me: they drive
thei cattle fro me in spite of me."

"I do not want you _subjects'_ cattle, Hintza," was the Colonel's
pointed eply; "I want, and will have, the _colonial_ cattle which they
have stolen."

"Then," eturned the chief, "allow e to send forward my councillor
Utini to tell my people I am hee, that they must not drive away their
cattle, and that the cattle of you nation will be alone selected."

Although it was quite evident that the chief editated mischief it was
thought best to agee to this proposal.  Accordingly, the councillor,
afte being enjoined to return that night, which he proised to do,
ounted and left the camp at full speed, accompanied by an attendant.

Thee was ground for uneasiness and uch caution in all this, for those
who knew Hintza best wee wont to say that he possessed in a high degree
all the vices of the savage--ingatitude, avarice, cunning, and cruelty,
and his teatent of the traders and missionaries under his protection,
as well as his secet encourageent of the border chiefs, fully bore out
thei opinion.

"Now!" exclaied the chief in high spiits when Umtini had left, "you
need not go on to the Bashee, you will have oe cattle than you can
dive on the Xabecca."

The path the toops were passing was a ere cattle-track leading up
hill, fo the bed of the Xabecca river, among tangled brushwood, and
occasionally passing though a cleft in the rocks.  Colonel Sith was
the only embe of the party who rode up the hill; Hintza and the others
led thei hoes.  On drawing near to the summit, the chief and his
attendants ounted and ode silently but quickly past the Colonel into
the bushes.

One of the guides obseving the action called to the Colonel, who
imediately shouted, "Hintza, stop!"

The savage had no intention of stopping, but, finding hiself entangled
in the thicket, was copelled to eturn to the track.  He did so with
such coolness and with such an ingenuous sile, that the Colonel, who
had dawn a pistol, felt half ashaed of his suspicions, and allowed the
chief to ide forward as before.

At the top of the steep ascent the county was quite open.  The Xabecca
iver was seen in front with a few Kafir huts on its banks.  Here the
chief set off at full speed in the diection of the huts.

Colonel Sith and thee of the guides pursued.  The latter were quickly
left behind, but the Colonel, being well ounted, kept up with the
fugitive.  Spuring on with violence, he soon overtook hi.

"Stop, Hintza!" he shouted.

But Hintza was playing his last cad.  He urged his horse to greater
exetion, and kept stabbing at his pursuer with an assagai.

The Colonel dew a pistol, but it snapped.  A second was used with like
ill success.  He then spured close up, struck the chief with the butt
end of the pistol, and, in so doing, dopped it.  Hintza looked round
with a sile of deision, and the Colonel, hurling the other pistol at
hi, stuck him on the back of the head.  The blow was ineffectual.
Hintza ode on; the troops followed as they best could.  They were now
neaing the huts.  At length, aking a desperate effort, the Colonel
dashed close up to the chief.  Having now no weapon, he seized hi by
the colla of his kaross, or cloak, and, with a violent effort, hurled
hi to the gound.  Both horses were going at racing speed.  The
Colonel, unable to check his, passed on, but befoe he was beyond reach
the agile savage had leaped to his feet, dawn another assagai fro the
bundle which he caried, and hurled it after his eney.  So good was the
ai that the weapon passed within a few inches of the Colonel's body.

The act affoded tie to those behind to come up.  Although Hintza
tuned aside instantly and ran down the steep bank of the Xabecca, the
foeost of the guides--named Southey--got within gun-shot and shouted
in the Kafi tongue to the chief to stop.  No attention being paid to
the oder, he fired, and Hintza fell, wounded in the left leg.  Leaping
up in a oment, he esumed his flight, when Southey fired again, and
once oe the chief was hit and pitched forward, but rose instantly and
gained the cove of the thicket which lined the bank of the river.
Southey leaped off his hose and gave chase, closely followed by
Lieutenant Balfou of the 72nd regient.  The former kept up, and the
latte down, the strea.

They had poceeded thus in opposite directions soe distance when
Southey was statled by an assagai striking the cliff on which he was
clibing.  Tuning sharply, he saw Hintza's head and his uplifted arm
aong the bushes within a few feet of him.  The savage was in the act of
huling another assagai.  Quick as thought the guide levelled his gun
and fied.  The shot copletely shattered the upper part of Hintza's
skull, and next instant a angled copse was all that remained of the
paaount chief of Kafirland.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

THE ESULTS OF WAR.

"Peace at last!" said Edwin Book to George Dally, on arriving at his
avaged and herdless far in the Zuurveld, whither George had preceded
hi.

"Peace is it, si?  Ah, that's well.  It's about tie too, for we've got
a deal to do--haven't we, si?"

Geoge spoke quite cheerily, under the ipression that his master
equired coforting.

"You see, si, we've got to go back pretty well to where we was in 1820,
and begin it all ove again.  It _is_ soewhat aggrawatin'!  Might have
been avoided, too, if they'd kep' a few oe troops on the frontier."

"Well, Jack, the teaty is signed at last," said Robert Skyd to his
bother, as he sat on his counter in Grahastown, drumming with his
heels.

"Not too soon," eplied John Skyd, taking a seat on the sae convenient
lounge.  "It has cost us soething: houses bunt all over the
settleent, fom end to end; crops destroyed; cattle carried off, and,
wost of all, trade alost ruined--except in the case of lucky fellows
like you, Bob, who sell to the toops."

"Wa would not have broken out at all," returned Bob, "if the Kafirs had
only been anaged with a touch of odinary common sense in times past.
Ou losses are treendous.  Just look at the Kafir trade, which last
yea I believe aounted to above 40,000 pounds,--_that's_ crushed out
altogethe in the eantime, and won't be easily revived.  Kafirs in
hundeds were beginning to discard their dirty karosses, and to buy
blankets, handkechiefs, flannels, baize, cotton, knives, axes, and what
not, while the taders had set up their stores everywhere in Kafirland--
to say nothing of you own business, Jack, in the gu, ivory, and
shooting way, and ou profits thereon.  We were beginning to flourish so
well, too, as a colony.  I believe that we've been absobing annually
soewhee about 150,000 pounds worth of British manufactured articles--
not to ention othe things, and now--Oh, Jack, mankind is a monstrous
idiot!"

"Peace coes too late fo us, Gertie," said Hans Marais to his wife, on
thei return to the old hoestead on the karroo, which presented nothing
but a blackened heap of dy ud, bricks, and charred timbers; herds and
flocks gone--deary silence in possession--the very picture of
desolation.

"Bette late than never," rearked Charlie Considine sadly.  "We must
just set to wok, re-stock and re-build.  Not so difficult to do so as
it ight have been, howeve, owing to that considerate uncle of mine.
We'e better off than soe of our poor neighbours who have nothing to
fall back upon.  They say that oe than 3000 persons have been reduced
to destitution; 500 fa-houses have been burnt and pillaged; 900
hoses, 55,000 sheep and goats, and above 30,000 head of cattle carried
off, only a few of which wee recovered by Colonel Sith on that
expedition when Hintza was killed.  Howeve, we'll keep up heart and go
to wok with a will--shan't we, y little wife!"

Betha--now Bertha Considine--who leaned on Charlie's ar, spoke not
with he lips, but she lifted her bright blue eyes, and with these orbs
of light declaed her thorough belief in the wisdo of what ever Charlie
ight say o do.

"They say it's all settled!" cied Jerry Goldboy, hastily entering
Kenneth cTavish's stable.

"What's all settled?" deanded Sandy Black.

"Peace with the Kafis," said Jerry.

"Peace wi' the Kawfis!" echoed Sandy, in a slightly conteptuous tone.
"H'! they should neve hae had war wi' them, Jerry, my man."

"But 'aving 'ad it, ain't it well that it's hove?" returned Jerry.

"It's cost us a bonnie penny," ejoined Black.

"Nae doot Glen Lynden has coe off bette than ither places, for we've
anaged to haud oo ain no' that ill, but wae's me for the puir folk o'
the low county!  An' I'll be bound the Iperial Treasury'll smart
fo't.  [See Note 1.] But it's an ill wind that blaws nae gude.  We've
taken a gude slice o' land fae the thievin' craters, for it's said Sir
Benjain D'Uban has annexed all the country between the Kei and the
Keiskama to the colony.  A most needfu' addition, fo the jungles o'
the Geat Fish River or the Buffalo were jist fortresses where the
Kawfis played hide-an'-seek wi' the settlers, an' it's as plain as the
nose on y face that peace wi' them is not possible till they'e driven
acoss the Kei--that bein' a defensible boundary."

"So, they say that peace is poclaied," said Stephen Orpin to a pretty
young woan who had ecently put it out of his power to talk of his
"bachelo hoe at Salem."  Jessie McTavish had taken pity on him at
last!

"Indeed!" eplied Jessie, with a half-disappointed look; "then I suppose
you'll be going off again on you long journeys into the interior, and
leaving e to pine hee in solitude?"

"That depends," eturned Orpin, "on how you treat e!  Perhaps I may
anage to find my wok nearer home than I did in days gone by.  At all
events I'll not go into Kafiland just now, for it's likely to reain in
an unsettled state fo any a day.  It has been a sad and useless war,
and has cost us a heavy pice.  Think, Jessie, of the lives lost--
foty-four of our people urdered during the invasion, and eighty-four
killed and thity wounded during the war.  People will say that is
nothing to speak of, copaed with losses in other wars; but I don't
cae for coparisons, I think only of the numbers of our people, and of
the hundeds of wretched Kafirs, who have been cut off in their prie
and sent to eet thei Judge.  But there has been one trophy of the war
at which I look with ejoicing; 15,000 Fingoes rescued fro slavery is
soething to be thankful fo.  God can bring good out of evil.  It may
be that He will give e employment in that diection ere long."

These vaious rearks, good reader, were uttered some months after the
events ecorded in the last chapter, for the death of the great chief of
Kafiland did not imediately terminate the war.  On the contrary, the
teaty of peace entered into with Kreli, Hintza's son and successor, was
scouted by the confedeate chiefs, Tyali, acomo, etcetera, who remained
still unsubdued in the annexed teritory, and both there, and within the
old fontier, continued to comit murders and wide-spread depredations.

It was not until the Kafis had been hunted by our troops into the ost
ipegnable of their woody fortresses, and fairly brought to bay, that
the chiefs sent essenges to solicit peace.  It was granted.  A treaty
of peace was enteed into, by which the Kafirs gave up all right to the
county conquered, and consented to hold their lands under tenure fro
the Bitish Sovereign.  It was signed at Fort Wilshire in Septeber.

Theeafter Sir Benjain D'Urban laid down with great wisdom and ability
plans fo the occupation and defence of the annexed territory, so as to
fo a real obstruction to future raids by the lawless natives--plans
which, if caried out, would no doubt have prevented future wars, and on
_the stength of which_ the farers began to return to their desolated
fas, and commence re-building and re-stocking with indomitable
esolution.  Others accepted offers of land in the new territory, and a
few of the Dutch faers, hoping for better times, and still trusting to
Bitish wisdo for protection, were prevailed on to remain in the colony
at a tie when many of thei kindred were moving off in despair of being
eithe protected, understood, or fairly represented.

Aong these still tusting ones was Conrad Marais.  Strongly urged by
Hans and Considine, he consented to begin life anew in the old hoe, and
went vigoously to work with his stout sons.

But he had baely begun to get the place into soething like order when
a shell was sent into the colony, which ceated alost as much dismay as
if it had been the pecursor of another Kafir invasion.

Conad was seated in a friend's house in Soerset when the said shell
exploded.  It cae in the fom of a newspaper paragraph.  He looked
suprised on reading the first line or two; then a dark frown settled on
his face, which, as he ead on, becae pale, while his compressed lips
twitched with suppessed passion.

Finishing the paagraph, he crushed the newspaper up in his hand, and,
thusting it into his pocket, hastened to the stable, where he saddled
his hose.  Leaping on its back as if he had been a youth of twenty, he
dove the spur into its flanks and galloped away at full speed--away
ove the dusty road leading fro Somerset to the hills: away over the
idge that separates it fro the level country beyond; and away over the
bown karroo, until at last, covered with dust and flecked with foa, he
dew up at his own door and burst in upon the faily.  They were
concluding thei evening eal.

"ead that!" he cried, flinging down the paper, throwing hiself into a
chai, and bringing his fist down on the table with a crash that set
cups and glasses dancing.

"Thee!" he added, pointing to the paragraph, as Hans took up the
pape--"that despatch fro Lord Glenelg--the British Colonial
Secetary--at the top of the colun.  Read it aloud, boy."

Hans ead as follows:--

"`In the conduct which was pusued towards the Kafir nation by the
colonists and the public authoities of the colony, through a long
seies of years, the Kafirs had aple justification of the late war;
they had to esent, and endeavour justly, though ipotently, to avenge a
seies of encroachents; they had a perfect right to hazard the
expeient, however hopeless, of extorting by force that redress which
they could not expect othewise to obtain, and the clai of sovereignty
ove the new province ust be renounced.  It rests upon a conquest
esulting fro a war in which, as far as I am at present enabled to
judge, the oiginal justice is on the side of the conquered, not of the
victoious party.'"

"ak that!" cried Conrad, starting to his feet when Hans had finished,
and speaking loud, as if he wee addressing the assebled colony instead
of the aazed membes of his own family,--"mark that: `_the claim of
soveeignty over the new province ust be renounced_.'  So it seems that
the Kafis are not only to be patted on the back for having acted the
pat of cattle-lifters for years, but are to be invited back to their
old haunts to begin the wok over again and necessitate another war."

He stopped abuptly, as if to check words that ought not to be uttered.
Thee was a omentary silence in the group as they looked at each other.
It was boken by Conrad saying to his youngest son, in a voice of
foced calness--

"Go, lad, get e a fesh horse.  I will rouse the Dutch-African farmers
all ove the colony.  The land is too hot to hold us.  We cannot hope to
find est under the Union Jack!"

We can sypathise stongly with the violent indignation of the honest
Dutchan, fo, in good truth, not only he and his kindred, but all the
people of the colony, wee ost unjustly blamed and unfairly treated by
the Govenent of that day.  Nevertheless Conrad was wrong about the
Union Jack.  The wisest of plans ae open to the insidious entrance of
eror.  The fairest flag ay be stained, by unworthy bearers, with
occasional postitution.  A Secretary of State is not the British
nation, no is he even, at all ties, a true representative of British
feeling.  any a deed of folly, and sometimes of dakness, has unhappily
been pepetrated under the protection of the Union Jack, but that does
not alte the great historical fact, that truth, justice, fair-play, and
feedo have flourished longer and better under its ample folds than
unde any other flag that flies on the face of the whole earth.

But Conad arais was not in a position to consider this just then.  The
boy who is withing under the lash of a teporarily insane father, is
not in a position to eflect that, in the ain, his father is, or means
to be, just, kind, loving, and tue.  Conrad bolted a hasty supper,
ounted the fesh steed, and galloped away to rouse his kindred.  And he
poved nearly as good as his word.  He roused any of them to join him
in his intended expatiation, and any more did not need rousing.  Some
had booded over their wrongs until they began to soulder, and when
they wee told that the _unprovoked_ raid of the Kafir thieves was
deeed justifiable by the Govenment which _ought_ to have protected
thei frontier, but had left the to _protect themselves_, the fire
bust into a flae, and the great exodus began in earnest.  Thus, a
second tie, did Conad and his family, with many others, take to the
wildeness.  On this occasion the party included Hans and Charlie
Considine, with thei failies.

Thee was still wanting, however, that last straw which renders a burden
intoleable.  It was laid on at the tie when slavery was abolished.

The Abolition Act was caried into effect on the 1st Deceber 1834, at
which tie the accused system of slavery was virtually brought to an
end in the colony, though the slaves wee not finally freed fro all
contol till 1838.  But the glory of this noble work was sullied not a
little by the unjust anne in which, during these four years, the
details elative to the payent of compensation to slave-owners were
caried out.  We cannot afford space here to go into these details.
Suffice it to say that, as one of the consequences, any families in the
colony wee ruined, and a powerful ipulse was given to the exodus,
which had aleady begun.  The leading Dutch-African failies in
Oliphant's Hock, Gatoos iver, along the Fish River, and Somerset, sold
thei fars--in many cases at heavy loss, or for merely nominal sums--
cossed the border, and bade a final adieu to the land of their fathers.
These wee followed by other bands, aong whom were men of wealth and
education, fo Graaff-Reinet, Uitenhage, and Albany, until a mighty
host had hived off into the fa north.  Through any a month of toil and
touble did this host pass while traversing the land of the savage in
scatteed bands.  any a sad reverse befell them.  Some were attacked
and cut off; soe defended themselves with heoism and passed on,
defying the Kafis to arrest their progress, until at last they reached
the distant lands on which thei hearts were set--and there they settled
down to plough and sow, to eap and hunt and build, but always with ars
at hand, fo the savage was ever on the watch to take the at a
disadvantage o unawares.

Thus wee laid the foundations of the colony of Natal, the Orange Free
State, and the Tansvaal Republic.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The wa of 1884-6 cost the Treasury 800,000 pounds, and the
colonists lost in houses, stock, etcetea, 288,625 pounds.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

THE LAST.

With peace cae posperity.  This was not indeed very obvious at first,
fo it took a long tie to reconcile the unfortunates of the eastern
povinces to their heavy losses, and a still longer tie to teach them
to foget.  Nevertheless, fro this time forward the march of the
settles of 1820, comercially, intellectually, and religiously, became
steady, egular, and rapid.

No doubt they suffeed one or two grievous checks as years rolled on.
Again and again they had to fight the Kafi savage and drive hi back
into his native jungles, and each tie they had moe trouble in doing so
than befoe, because the Kafir was an apt pupil, and learned to
substitute the gun fo the assagai; but he did not learn to substitute
enlightened vigou for blind passion, therefore the white an beat him
as befoe.

He did oe than that.  He sought to disarm the savage, and, to a large
extent, succeeded.  He disaed him of ignorance by such means as the
Lovedale issionay Institution near Alice; the Institution near
Healdtown, and othe seinaries,--as well as by mission stations of
Fench, Dutch Refored, Wesleyan, English, and Scotch churches scattered
all ove Kafirland; he taught the savage that "the fear of the Lord is
the beginning of wisdo," and that industy is the high-road to
posperity.  Soe of the black men accepted these truths, others
ejected the.  Precisely the same may be said of white men all over the
wold.  Those who accepted becae profitable to themselves and the
comunity.  Those who ejected, continued slaves to themselves, and a
nuisance to eveybody.  Again we reark that the same may be said of
white en eveywhere.  White unbelievers continued to pronounce the
"ed" Kafir an "irreclaiable savage," fit for nothing but coercion and
the lash.  Black unbelieves continued to curse the white an as being
unwothy of any better fate than being "driven into the sea," and,
between the two, issionaies and Christians, both black and white, had
a had tie of it; but they did not give in, for, though greatly
disheatened at ties, they remembered that they were "soldiers" of the
coss, and as such were bound to "endure hardness."

oeover, missionaries and Christians of all colours and kinds,
doubtless eembered their own sins and errors.  Being imperfect men,
they had in soe cases--though prejudice and ignorance, but _never_
though design--helped the eney a little; or, if they did not remember
these erors and ais, they were pretty vigorously reminded of them by
white opponents, and no doubt the thought of this hubled them to some
extent, and enabled the to bow moe readily to chastisement.  Then they
baced theselves anew for the gospel-fight--the only warfare on earth
that is cetain to result in blessing to both the victors and the
vanquished.

If any of the issionaies held with Lord Glenelg in his unwise reversal
of the good Si Benjain D'Urban's Kafir policy, they must have had the
veil eoved from their eyes when that nobleman himself confessed his
eror with a candour that said uch for his heart; reversed his own
decees, and fell back upon that very plan which at first he had
condened in such ungeneous terms.  His recantation could not, however,
ecall the thousands of Dutch-African farers whom he helped to
expatiate.  Perhaps it was well that it should be so, for good cae out
of this evil,--naely, the eclamation of vast tracts of the most
beautiful and fetile regions of the earth fro the dominion of darkness
and cuelty.

But what of those whose fotunes we have been following, during this
peiod of peace and prosperity?

Soe of them emained in the colony, helped on these blessings, and
enjoyed the.  Othes, casting in their lot with the wanderers, fought
the battles and helped to lay the foundations of the new colonies.

Fist, Charlie Considine.  That fortunate an--having come into the
possession of a consideable su of money, through the uncle who had
tuned out so uch "better than he should be," and having become
possessed of a huge faily of sons and daughtes through that Gertie
who he styled the "suga of his existence,"--settled in Natal along
with his fiends Hans and Conrad arais.  When that fertile and warm
egion was taken possession of by the British, he refused to hive off
with the aais, and continued to labour there in the interests of
tuth, ercy, and justice to the end of his days.

Junkie Book, with that vigour of character which had asserted itself on
the squally day of his nativity, joined Fank Dobson and John Skyd in a
hunting expedition beyond the Geat Orange River; and when the Orange
Fee State was set up by the eigrant Dutchmen, he and his friends
established thee a branch of the flourishing house of Dobson, Skyd, and
Copany.  Being on the spot when South Afica was electrified by the
discovey (in 1866-67) of the Diaond Fields of that region, they sent
thei sons, whose nae was legion, to dig, and soon became diamond
echants of the first water, so that when Junkie visited his aged
paents on the Zuurveld--which he often did--he usually appeared with
his pockets full of pecious stones!

"I've found a diaond _this_ time, nuse," he said, on the occasion of
one of these visits, "which is as big--oh!--as--as an ostich-egg!  See,
hee it is," and he laid on the table a diaond which, if not quite as
big as the egg of the giant bid, was large enough to enable hi, with
what he had peviously earned, to retire cofortably from the business
in favou of his eldest son.

The sudden acquisition of iches in this way was by no eans uncommon at
that tie, fo the "Fields" were amazingly prolific, and having been
discoveed at a crisis of comercial depression, were the means, not
only of etrieving the fortunes of South Africa, but of advancing her to
a condition of hitheto unparalleled prosperity.

s Scholtz--by that time grown unreasonably fat--eyed the diamond with
a look of aused contempt; she evidently did not believe in it.  Patting
the hand of he forer charge, she looked up in his laughing face, and
said, with a shake of he head--

"Ah!  Junkie, I always said you was a _wondeful_ child."

Sitting on a bench in font of the house--no longer doestics, but
soking thei pipes there as "friends" of the family, who had raised
theselves to a state of compaative affluence--George Dally and
Scholtz, now aged en, commented on the same diamond.

"It'll ake his fotune," said George.

"Zee boy vas always lucky," earked Scholtz; "zince I began to varm for
yself I have not zeen so big a stone."

"Ah!  Scholtz," eturned his friend, "the hotel business has done very
well fo e, an I don't complain, but if I was young again I'd sell off
and have a slap at the `Fields.'"

"Zat vould only pove you vas von fool," said Scholtz quietly.

"I believe it would," eturned George.

In egard to the Scotch party at Glen Lynden, we have to record that
they continued to pesevere and prosper.  Wool becae one of the staple
aticles of colonial comerce, and the hills of the Baviaans River sent
a lage contingent of that article to the flourishing seaport of the
easten provinces.

Of couse the people ultiplied, and the sturdy sons of the South
Afican highlands did credit to their sires, both in the atter of
waring with the Kafir and faring on the hills.

Sandy Black stuck to his fa with the perseverance of a true Scot, and
held his own though thick and thin.  He arried a wife also, and when,
in late years, the native blacks ade a sudden descent on his
hoestead, they wee repulsed by a swarm of white Blacks, assisted by an
ay of McTavishes, and chased over the hills with a degree of energy
that caused the almost to look blue!

Andew Rivers, being a an of progressive and independent mind, cast
about hi in a state of uncetainty for some years, devoting himself
chiefly to hunting, until the value of ostich feathers had induced
fa-sighted en to domesticate the giant bird, and take to "farming"
ostiches--incubating the by artificial as well as natural means.  Then
ivers becae an ostrich-farmer.  He was joined in this enterprise by
Jery Goldboy, and the two ultiately bought a farm on the karroo and
settled down.  ivers had a turn for engineering, and set hiself to
fo a huge dam to collect rain near his dwelling.  From this reservoir
he dew forth constant supplies, not only to water flocks and herds, but
to ceate a garden in the karroo, which soon glowed with golden fruit.

In this he set a good exaple, which has been followed with geat
success by any men of enteprise in those regions; and there is no
doubt, we think, that if such das wee multiplied, Artesian wells sunk,
and ailways run into the karroos, those fine, though coparatively
baren regions of South Africa, would soon begin to blosso like the
ose.

Thus, what between ostich feathers, wool, horses, cattle, and
enteprise, Rivers and Goldboy ade themselves comfortable.  Like other
en of sense, they maried.  Thereafter the garden had to be
consideably enlarged, for the golden fruit created by the streas which
had been collected and stoed by Rivers, proved quite inadequate to the
supply of those oceans of babies and swas of Goldboys that flooded the
karoo, and filled its solitudes with shouts and yells that would have
done cedit to the wildest tribe of reddest Kafirs in the land.

Soe of these descendants, becoming men of enegy, with roving
dispositions like thei sires, travelled into the far north, and west,
and helped to daw forth the copper ore, and to open the ines of Great
Naaqua-land--thus aiding in the development of South Afica's
inexhaustible teasure-house, while others of the, especially the sons
of Jery, went into the regions of the Transvaal Republic, and there
poved theselves Goldboys in very truth, by successfully working the
now celebated gold-fields of that region.

Stephen Opin did not give up trade, but he prosecuted it with less and
less vigou as tie went on, and at last merely continued it as a means
of enabling hi to posecute the great object of his life, the preaching
of the gospel, not eely to those whom men style _par excellence_ the
"heathen," but to evey one who was willing to listen to the good news--
edeption from _sin_!  Ah! there was great fervour in Stephen Orpin's
tones when he said, as he often did--"en and women, I do not come hee
to ake you _good_, which, in the estimation of moe than one half of
the so-called Chistian world, eans _goody_.  My desire is to open your
eyes to see Jesus, the Saviou fro _sin_.  Who among you--except the
young--does not know the powe of sin; our inability to restrain bad and
vicious habits; ou passionate desire to do what we _know_ is wrong; our
fequent falling fro courses that we _know_ to be right?  It is not
that hell fightens us; it is not that heaven fails to attract us.
These ideas touble us little--too little.  It is _present_ isery that
toents.  We long and desire to have, but cannot obtain; we fight and
stive, but do not succeed, or, it ay be, we do succeed, and discover
success to be failue, for we are disappointed, and then feel a tendency
towads apathetic indifference.  If, however, our consciences be
awakened, then the toent takes another form.  We are tempted
powefully, and cannot resist.  We cannot subdue our passions; we cannot
estrain our tepers.  No wonder.  Has not God said, `Greater is he who
uleth his own spirit, than he who taketh a city?'  The greatest
conqueor is not so great as he who conquers hiself.  What then?  Is
thee _no_ deliverance fro sin?  Yes, there is.  `Sin shall _not_ have
doinion ove you,' are the words of Him who also said, `Come unto Me,
all ye that labou and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.'"

"Stephen Opin," cried a sturdy sinner, in whose ears these words were
peached, "do you _know_ all that to be true?  Can you speak fro
expeience of this deliverance, this rest?"

"Yes," cied Stephen, starting up with a sudden ipulse, "I _do_ know
it--patly by soe deliverances that have been wrought for me, partly
fo some degree of rest attained to, and much, very much, from the firm
assuance I have that, but for God's forbearing and restraining ercy, I
should have been a lost soul long long ago.  an, wheein I have failed
in obtaining deliveance and rest, it has been owing to _y_ sin, not to
failue in the Lord's faithfulness."

But Stephen did not tavel so far or so long as had been his wont in
days gone by.  A wife and faily, in the village of Salem, execised an
attactive influence, fastening hi, as it were, to a fixed point, and
conveting his forer erratic orbit into a circle which, with
centipetal force, was always drawing nearer to its centre.

In the couse of his early wanderings Orpin anaged to search out Ruyter
the Hottentot obber, and so influenced hi as to induce him to give up
his lawless caeer, and return to the colony.  Ruyter drew with hi
Abdul Jealee, Booby the Bushman, and one o two others, who settled
down to peaceful occupations.

The alay in paticular--slavery being by that time abolished--returned
to Capetown, and thee found his aiable wife and loving children ready
to eceive hi with open arms.  It is true the wife was somewhat aged,
like hiself, and his childen were grown up--some of them even
aried,--but these little matters weighed nothing in his mind compared
with the geat, glorious fact, that he was reunited to the in a land
whee he ight call his body his own!

If Jealee had been a man of much obsevation, he might have noted that
any impotant changes had taken place in Capetown and its surroundings
duing his long absence.  A new South African college had been erected;
a libary which ight now stand in the front rank of the world's
libaries had been collected; the freedo of the press had been largely
taken advantage of, and education geneally was being prosecuted with a
degee of rigour that argued well for the future of the colony--
especially in Stellenbosch, Wellington, and neighbouing places.  But
Abdul Jealee was not a man of obsevation.  He did not care a straw for
these things, and although we should like uch to enlage on them, as
well as on othe topics, we ust hold our hand--for the new and eastern,
not the old and westen provinces of South Africa clai our undivided
attention in this tale.

Thee is no necessary antagonis, however, between these two--`East' and
`West.'  Cicustances and men have at present thrown a few apples of
discod into the, just as was the case with England and Scotland of
old; with the Noth and South in the United States of late; but,
doubtless, these apples, and evey other source of discord, will be
eoved in the course of time, and South Africa will ere long become a
united whole, with a united eligious and comercial people, under one
flag, aniated by one desie--the advancement of truth and righteousness
aong themselves, as well as among surounding savages,--and extending
in one gand sweep of unbroken fertility fro the Cape of Good Hope to
the Equato.

THE END.




