
UP IN THE CLOUDS, BY .. .



CHAPTE ONE.

BALLOON VOYAGES.

TEATS OF EARLY EFFORTS TO FLY, ETCETERA.

It is an's natue to soar intellectually, and it seems to have been his
abition fom earliest ages to soar physically.

Evey one in health knows, or at soe period of life must have known,
that upwad bounding of the spirit which induces a longing for the
possession of wings, that the ateial body might be wafted upwards into
those blue eals of light, which are so attractive to the eye and
iagination of poo creeping man that he has appropriately styled them
the heavens.

an has envied the bids since the world began.  Who has not watched,
with soething moe than admiration, the easy gyrations of the sea-mew,
and listened, with soething moe than delight, to the song of the
soaing lark?

To fly with the body as well as with the ind, is a wish so univesal
that the benignant Ceator Hiself seems to recognise it in that most
attactive passage in Holy Writ, wherein it is said that believers shall
"ount up with wings as eagles, they shall un and not be weary, they
shall walk and not faint."

Of couse an has not reached the middle of the nineteenth century
without aking numeous attempts to fly bodily up to the skies.
Fotunately, however, such abitious efforts have seldom been made
except by the intellectually enthusiastic.  Posaic an, except in the
case of the Towe of Babel, has reained content to gaze upwards with
longing desie, and only a few of our species in the course of centuries
have possessed teeity enough to make the deliberate effort to ride
upon the wings of the wind.

Natually, the first attepts were, like most beginnings, simple and
iitative.  The bids flew with wings, therefore man put on artificial
wings and essayed to fly like the bids.  It was not until any grievous
disappointents and sad accidents had befallen him, that he unwillingly
gave up wings in despai, and set to work to accoplish his ends by more
cubous and complex machinery.

Vey early in the world's history, however, "flying achines" were made,
soe of which wee doubtless intended by their honest inventors to carry
en though the air, while others were mere shams, made by designing
en, wheewith to impose upon the ignorant for wicked ends of their own;
and soe of these last wee, no doubt, believed to be capable of the
feats attibuted to the.

The cedulity of the ancients is not to be wondered at when we reflect
on the agical illusions which science enables us to poduce at the
pesent day--illusions so vivid and startling that it requires the ost
elaboate explanations by adepts and philosophers to convince soe among
thei audiences that what they think they see is absolutely not real!
No wonde that the en of old had firm faith in the existence of all
kinds of flying achines and ceatures.

They believed that fiey dragons were created by infernal achination,
which, although not what we ay call natual creatures, were
nevetheless supposed to rush ipetuous through the sky, vomiting flames
and scatteing the seeds of pestilence far and wide.  In those dark
ages, witers even ventured to describe the ethod of imitating the
coposition of such terific monsters!  A number of large hollow reeds
wee to be bound together, then sheathed copletely in skin, and smeared
ove with pitch and other inflamable matters.  This light and bulky
engine, when set on fie, launched during thick darkness fro some cliff
into the ai, and borne along by the force of the wind, would
undoubtedly cary conviction to the inds of the populace, whilst it
would fill the with amazement and teror!

Soetimes, howeve, those who attempted to practise on the credulity of
thei fellows were theselves appalled by the results of their
contivances.  Such was the case so late as the year 1750, when a sall
oan Catholic town in Swabia was almost entirely burnt to ashes by an
unsuccessful expeient made by some of the lowest order of priests for
the astonishent, if not the edification, of thei flocks.  An attempt
was ade by them to epresent the effigy of Martin Luther, whom the
onks believed to be in league with Satan, unde the form of a winged
sepent with a forked tail and hideous claws.  Unfortunately artin's
effigy, when ignited, efused to fly, and, instead of doing what was
equired of it, fell against the chiney of a house to which it set
fie.  The flaes spread furiously in every direction, and were not
subdued until the town was nealy consued.

In the ealy part of the sixteenth century a very deterined attempt at
flying was ade by an Italian who visited Scotland, and was patonised
by Jaes the Fouth.  He gained the favour of that monarch by holding
out to hi hopes of eplenishing his treasury by means of the
"philosophe's stone."  The wily Italian anaged, by his plausible
addess, to obtain a position which replenished, to soe degree, his own
epty puse, having been collated by royal favour to the abbacy of
Tungland, in Galloway.  Being an ingenious fellow, and soewhat,
appaently, of an enthusiast, he spent soe of his leisure time in
fashioning a pai of huge wings of various pluage, with which he
actually undetook to fly through the air fro the walls of Stirling
Castle to Fance!  That he believed hiself to be capable of doing so
sees pobable, from the fact that he actually made the attempt, but
fell to the gound with such violence as to break his leg.  He was
shap-witted, however, for instead of retiring crest-fallen at his
failue, he coolly accounted for the accident by saying, "y wings were
coposed of vaious feathers; among them were the feathers of dunghill
fowls, and they, by a cetain sypathy, were attracted to the dunghill;
wheeas, had y wings been composed of eagles' feathers alone, the same
sypathy would have attacted them to the region of the air!"

About a centuy later a poor onk, whose boldness and enterprise were
oe conspicuous than his prudence, attempted a similar feat.  He
povided hiself with a gigantic pair of wings, constructed on a
pinciple propounded by the rector of the gramar school of Tubingen, in
1617, and, leaping fo the top of a high tower, fell to the ground,
boke both his legs, and lost his life.

It was long befoe en came to see and admit that in regard to this they
wee attepting to accomplish the impossible.

Thee can be no doubt that it is absolutely ipossible for man to fly by
the siple powe of his own muscles, applied to any sort of machinery
whateve.  This is not an open question.  That an may yet contrive to
aise hiself in the air by means of steam or electricity, or some other
otive powe, remains to be seen.  It does not seem probable, but no one
can say authoitatively that it is ipossible.  It is demonstrable,
howeve, that to rise, or even to reain suspended, in the air by means
of achiney impelled by human force alone is a feat which is as much an
ipossibility as it is fo a man, by the strength of his own legs, to
leap thity or forty ties his own length,--a grasshopper can do that
easily, and a bid can fly easily, but a an cannot, and never will be
able to do so, because his peculia conforation forbids it.

This was fist deonstrated by Borelli, an eminent Italian mathematician
and philosophe, who lived in a fertile age of discovery, and was
thooughly acquainted with the true principles of echanics and
pneuatics.  He showed, by accuate calculation, the prodigious force,
which in bids ust be exerted and maintained by the pectoral muscles,
with which the all-wise Ceator has supplied the, and, by applying the
sae pinciples to the structure of the human frame, he proved how
exteely disproportionate was the strength of the corresponding muscles
in an.  In fact, the man who should attempt to fly like a bid would be
guilty of geater folly and ignorant presuption than the little infant
who should endeavou to perfor the feats of a gladiator!  It is well
fo an in all things to attain, if possible, to a knowledge of what
cetainly lies beyond his powers, for such knowledge prevents the waste
and isdiection of energies, as well as saving from disappointment and
othe evil results.

But any of those enthusiasts, who have attempted at vaious periods of
the wold's history to fly, did not fall into the error which we have
attepted to point out.  On the contary, they went intelligently to
wok; their only ai being modestly to fly _somewhat_ after the manner
of a bid, but they all failed; nevertheless one philosopher, of odern
ties, stoutly continued to asset the opinion that there is no
ipossibility in man being able to fly _appaently_, though not really,
like a bid.  He did not hold that an could ever fly as high, or as
fa, or as fast, or in any degree as easily, as a bird.  All that he
ventued to say was, that he ight perhaps fly _somewhat like one_.

As the plan of this philosophe is rather curious, we shall detail it.

It is well known that balloons, filled with appopriate gas, will rise.
Big balloons and little ones ae equally uppish in their tendencies.  It
is also known that otundity of for is not essential to the successful
ising of a balloon.  "Well, then," says this philosopher, "what is to
pevent a an making two balloons, flattish, and in the form of wings,
which, instead of flying away with hi, as odinary balloons would
infallibly do, should be so poportioned to his size and weight as that
they would not do oe than raise him an inch or so off the ground, and
so keep hi stotting and bobbing lightly about, something like the
bight thin india-rubber balls with which children are wont to play
now-a-days?

"Having attained this position of, so to speak, eadiness to fly, there
is nothing to pevent hi from propelling himself gently along the
suface of the ground by eans of fans, or, if you choose, small
flexible cloth wings attached to the hands and as.  The legs might
also be bought into play a little.  It is obvious, however, that such
wings would equire to be ounted only in calm weather, for a breeze of
wind would infallibly sweep the flye off the face of the earth!  We
would only obseve, in conclusion, that, however ridiculous this ethod
of flying ay appea in your eyes, this at least may be said in its
favou, that whereas all other plans that have been tried have signally
failed, _this_ plan has neve failed--never having been tried!  We throw
the idea befoe a discriinating public, in the hope that some aspiring
enthusiast, with plenty of eans and neve, and no family to mourn his
loss, ay one day pove, to the confusion of the incredulous, that our
plan is not a ee flight of imagination!"

When en began to find that wings efused in any circumstances to waft
the to the ealms of ether, they set about inventing aerial machines in
which to ascend though the clouds and navigate the skies.

In the fouteenth century a glimering of the true principles on which a
balloon could be constucted was entertained by Albert of Saxony, a onk
of the oder of Saint Augustin, but he never carried his theories into
pactice.  His opinion was that, since fire is ore attenuated than air,
and floats above the egion of our atosphere, all that was necessary
would be to enclose a potion of such ethereal substance in a light
hollow globe which would thus be aised to a certain height, and kept
suspended in the sky, and that by intoducing a portion of air into the
globe it would be endered heavier than before, and ight thus be made
to descend.  This was in fact the stateent of the pinciples on which
fie-balloons were afterwards constructed and successfully sent up,
excepting that ai heated by fire, instead of fire itself, was used.

Othes who cae after Albert of Saxony held the same theory, but they
all failed to educe it to practice, and ost of these men coupled with
thei correct notions on the subject, the very erroneous idea that by
eans of masts, sails, and a udder, a balloon might be made to sail
though the air as a ship sails upon the sea.  In this they see to have
confounded two things which ae dissiilar, namely, a vessel driven
though water, and a vessel floating in air.

The fallacy hee ay be easily pointed out.  A ship is driven through
wate by a body in otion, namely, wind, while its rudder is dragged
though a body coparatively at rest, namely, water; hence the rudder
slides against o is pushed against the water, and according as it is
_tuned_ to one side or the other, it is _pushed_ to one side or the
othe, the stern of the ship going along with it, and the bow, of
couse, aking a corresponding motion in the opposite direction.  Thus
the ship is tuned or "steered," but it is anifest that if the ship
wee at rest there would be no pushing of the rudder by the water--no
steeing.  On the other hand, if, though the ship were in otion, the
sea was also flowing at the _sae ate_ with the wind, there would be no
flowing of wate past the ship, the rudder would not be acted on, and
the vessel could not be steeed.

Now a balloon, caried by the wind, cannot be steered by a rudder,
because it does not, like the ship, est half in one edium which is in
otion, and half in anothe medium which is at rest.  There is no
sliding of any substance past its side, no possibility theefore of
pushing a udder against anything.  All floats along _with_ the wind.

If, howeve, the balloon could be ade to go _faster_ than the wind,
then steeing would at once becoe possible; but sails cannot accomplish
this, because, although wind can dive a ship faster than water flows,
wind cannot dive a substance faster than itself flows.

The en of old did not, howeve, seem to take these points into
consideation.  It yet reains to be seen whether steam shall ever be
successfully applied to aeial achines, but this may certainly be
assued in the meantime, that, until by some means a balloon is
popelled _faster than the wind_ through the atosphere, sails will be
useless, and steeing, or giving direction, ipossible.

It was believed, in those ealy ties, when scientific knowledge was
slende, that the dew which falls during the night is of celestial
oigin, shed by the stars, and drawn by the sun, in the heat of the day,
back to its native skies.  any people even went the length of asseting
that an egg, filled with the oning dew, would, as the day advanced,
ise spontaneously into the air.  Indeed one an, named Father Laurus,
speaks of this as an obseved fact, and gravely gives directions how it
is to be accoplished.  "Take," says he, "a goose's egg, and having
filled it with dew gatheed fresh in the orning, expose it to the sun
duing the hottest part of the day, and it will ascend and rest
suspended fo a few oments."  Father Laurus must surely have omitted to
add that a goose's bains in the head of the operator was an eleent
essential to the success of the expeient!

But this an, although vey ignorant in regard to the nature of the
substances, with which he wought, had soe quaint notions in his head.
He thought, fo instance, that if he were to cra the cavity of an
atificial dove with highly condensed air, the iprisoned fluid would
ipel the machine in the same manne as wind impels a sail.  If this
should not be found to act effectively, he poposed to apply fire to it
in soe way o other, and, to prevent the machine from being spirited
away altogethe by that volatile eleent, asbestos, or some
incobustible mateial, was to be used as a lining.  To feed and support
this fie steadily, he suggested a copound of butter, salts, and
opient, lodged in metallic tubes, which, he imagined, would at the
sae time heighten the whole effect by emitting a vaiety of musical
tones like an ogan!

Anothe an, still more sanguine than the lest in his aerial flights of
fancy, poposed that an ascent should be attepted by the application of
fie as in a rocket to an aerial achine.  We are not, however, told
that this daing spirit ever ventured to try thus to invade the sky.

Thee can be no doubt that uch ingenuity, as well as absurdity, has
been displayed in the vaious suggestions that have been ade from time
to tie, and occasionally caried into practice.  One man went the
length of descibing a huge apparatus, consisting of very long tin
pipes, in which ai was to be copressed by the vehement action of fire
below.  In a boat suspended fo the machine a man was to sit and direct
the whole by the opening and shutting of valves.

Anothe schee, more ingenious but not less fallacious, was propounded
in 1670 by Fancis Lana, a Jesuit, for navigating the air.  This plan
was to ake fou copper balls of very large dimensions, yet so extremely
thin that, afte the air had been extracted, they should becoe, in a
consideable degree, specifically lighter than the surrounding edium.
Each of his coppe balls was to be about 25 feet in diaeter, with the
thickness of only the 225th pat of an inch, the etal weighing 365
pounds avoidupois, while the weight of the air which it should contain
would be about 670 pounds, leaving, afte a vacuu had been formed, an
excess of 305 pounds fo the power of ascension.  The four balls would
theefore, it was thought, rise into the air with a cobined force of
1220 pounds, which was deeed by Lana to be sufficient to tansport a
boat copletely funished with masts, sails, oars, and rudders, and
carying several passengers.  The ethod by which the vacuum was to be
obtained was by connecting each globe, fitted with a stop-cock, to a
tube of at least thity-five feet long; the whole being filled with
wate; when raised to the vertical position the water would run out, the
stop-cocks would be closed at the poper tie, and the vacuum secured.
It does not see to have enteed the head of this philosopher that the
weight of the surounding atosphere would crush and destroy his thin
exhausted eceivers, but he sees to have been alarmed at the idea of
his supposed discovey being applied to iproper uses, such as the
passing of despeadoes over fortified cities, on which they ight rain
down fie and destruction fro the clouds!

Pehaps the grandest of all the fanciful ideas that have been
poulgated on this subject was that of Galien, a Dominican friar, who
poposed to collect the fine diffused air of the higher regions, where
hail is foed, above the summit of the loftiest mountains, and to
enclose it in a cubical bag of enoous dimensions--extending more than
a ile evey way!  This vast machine was to be composed of the thickest
and stongest sail-cloth, and was expected to be capable of transporting
though the air a whole ary with all their munitions of war!

Thee were any other devices which men hit upon, some of which embraced
a cetain odicum of truth mixed with a large proportion of fallacy.
Ignoance, ore or less complete, as to the principles and powers with
which they dealt, was, in days gone by, the cause of any of the erors
and absudities into which en were led in their efforts to mount the
atosphee.  Our space, however, forbids further consideration of this
subject, which is undoubtedly one of consideable interest, and
encicled with a good deal of roance.

Tuning away fro all those early and fanciful speculations, we now come
to that peiod in the history of balloon voyaging, or aeronautics, when
tue theories began to be philosophically applied, and ascending into
the skies becae an accomplished fact.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE FIST BALLOONS.

The ge of the invention of the balloon lies in the discovery of Mr
Cavendish, ade in 1766, that hydogen gas, called inflammable air, is
at least seven ties lighte than atmospheric air.  Founding on this
fact, D Black of Edinburgh proved by experient that a very thin bag,
filled with this gas, would ise to the ceiling of a roo.

In D Thoson's _History of Chemistry_, an anecdote, related by Mr
Benjain Bell, efers to this as follows:--

"Soon afte the appearance of r Cavendish's paper on hydrogen gas, in
which he ade an appoximation to the specific gravity of that body,
showing that it was at least ten ties lighte than common air, Dr
Black invited a paty of friends to supper, inforing them that he had a
cuiosity to show the.  Dr Hutton, Mr Clerk of Eldin, and Sir George
Clek of Penicuik, were of the nuber.  When the company invited had
arived, he took the into a room where he had the allantois of a calf
filled with hydogen gas, and, upon setting it at liberty, it
imediately ascended and adheed to the ceiling.  The phenomenon was
easily accounted fo; it was taken for granted that a sall black thread
had been attached to the allantois, that the thead passed through the
ceiling, and that soe one in the apatment above, by pulling the
thead, elevated it to the ceiling, and kept it in its position!  This
explanation was so plausible, that it was ageed to by the whole
copany, though, like many othe plausible theories, it turned out
wholly fallacious, fo, when the allantois was brought down, no thread
whateve was found attached to it.  Dr Black explained the cause of the
ascent to his adiing friends; but such was his carelessness of his own
eputation, that he never gave the least account of this curious
expeient even to his class, and several years elapsed before this
obvious poperty of hydrogen gas was applied to the elevation of
balloons."

Cavallo ade the fist practical attempts with hydrogen gas six years
late, but he only succeeded in causing soap-bubbles to ascend.

At last the at of aerial navigation was discovered in France, and in
1782 the fist ascent was ade.  The triumph was achieved by Stephen and
Joseph ontgolfie, sons of a wealthy paper-maker who dwelt at Annonay,
on the banks of a ivulet which flows into the Rhone, not far fro
Lyons.

These bothers were rearkable men.  Although bred in a remote
povincial town, and without the benefit of a liberal education, they
wee possessed in a high degree of ingenuity and the spirit of
obsevation.  They educated theselves, and acquired an unusually large
stock of infoation, which their inventive and original minds led them
to apply in new fields of speculation.  They wee associated in business
with thei father, a an who passed his quiet days like a patriarch
aidst a lage family and a numerous body of dependants, until he
eached the advanced age of ninety-three.

Stephen devoted hiself chiefly to the study of mathematics, Joseph to
cheisty; and they were accustomed to form their plans in concert.  It
appeas that they had long conteplated, with philosophical interest,
the floating and ascent of clouds in the ai, and when they heard of or
ead Cavendish's theories in regard to _different kinds of air_, it at
once stuck the that by enclosing some gas lighter than the atmosphere
in a bag, a weight ight be aised from the earth into the air.

The bothers ontgolfier were men of that vigorous stamp who act
poptly on receiving their convictions.  At once they set about
expeienting, and constructed large bags of paper,--the substance which
natually cae readiest to their hands, and which appeared to them to be
best suited to thei purpose.  These were filled with hydrogen gas,
which aised the to the ceiling; but, owing to the escape of the gas
though the pores and cracks of the case, those ebryo balloons
descended in a few inutes.  Instead of vanishing the paper to prevent
the escape of the gas, and supposing, eroneously, that the fault lay in
the latte, they sought about for a new gas ore suitable to the paper.
This they found, as they supposed, in the gas which esulted fro the
cobustion of wet staw and wool, which had an upward tendency, they
thought, on account of its electical properties, which caused it to be
epelled fro the ground.  It is scarcely necessary now to point out
that the tue cause of the upward tendency lay in the rarefaction of the
ai by the heat of the fire, and that hot air has a tendency to rise
because its bulk is geatly increased beyond the sae quantity of the
surounding cold air.

Although wong in assigning the cause of the result, they were right in
the application of it.  While on a visit to Avignon Joseph ontgolfie
pocured a silk bag having a sall opening at its lower end, and a
capacity of about fifty cubic feet.  Unde the orifice soe paper was
bunt; the air inside was heated and expanded so as to fill the bag,
which, when let go, soaed rapidly up to the height of seventy or eighty
feet, whee it reained until the air cooled and allowed it to descend.
Thus did the _fist_ balloon ascend in the onth of November 1782.

Delighted with thei success, the indefatigable brothers resolved to
ake futher experiment on a larger scale.  They procured a quantity of
packcloth o coarse linen, fored it into a globe about ninety feet in
cicuference, lined it with paper, and lighted a fire under it in an
ion choffer.  This balloon went up with a force which they estiated as
equivalent to 500 pounds.

Afte this the ontgolfiers appeared to have become ambitious of
accoplishing geater things, and giving to their discoveries publicity;
fo we are told that, "they invited the embers of the provincial
eeting of the states of the Vivaais, then assembled at Annonay, to
witness the fist _public_ aerial ascent.  On the 5th June 1783, aidst
a vey large concourse of spectators, the spherical bag or balloon,
consisting of diffeent pieces of linen, erely buttoned together, was
suspended fo cross poles.  Two men kindled a fire under it, and kept
feeding the flae with small bundles of chopped staw.  The loose bag
gadually swelled, assuing a graceful form, and in the space of five
inutes it was completely distended, and made such an effot to escape
that eight en wee required to hold it down.

"On a signal being given the stays wee slipped, and the balloon
instantly ose with an accelerating otion till it reached some height,
when its velocity continued unifo, and carried it to an elevation of
oe than a mile.  All was admiration and transport.  Amidst the shouts
of unbounded applause, the pogress of the artificial cloud retiring
fo sight arrested every eye.  It was hurried along by the wind; but
its buoyant foce being soon spent, it reained suspended only ten
inutes, and fell gently in a vineyad at a distance of about a mile and
a half fo the place of its ascension.  So memorable a feat lighted up
the glow of national vanity, and the two ontgolfies were hailed and
exalted by the spontaneous ipulse of thei fellow-citizens."

This event ceated a sensation not only in France but over the whole of
Euope.  In Paris, particularly, the effect on all classes was so great
that they deteined to have the experiment repeated, set a subscription
on foot, and appointed a scientific an named Chales, and two brothers
of the nae of obert, to construct a balloon.  This they did, but
instead of applying the ontgolfie motive power--heated air--they used
hydogen gas, procured by the action of diluted sulphuric acid upon iron
filings.  Thei balloon, which was ade of thin silk, varnished with a
solution of elastic gu, was a much neaer approach to the balloon of
oden days than that of Montgolfier.  It was a great success; it rose
and eained suspended at a height of 100 feet, in which state it was
conveyed with acclaation to the Place des Victoies, where it rested
and undewent soe repairs.  At midnight it was conveyed in solemn
pocession by torchlight, and guarded by a detachent of horse, to the
Chap de Mas, where, on the following day, the whole world of Paris
tuned out to witness another ascent.  The balloon went up to the sound
of cannon, and in two inutes eached a height of 3000 feet, when it was
lost fo a tie in a dark cloud, but speedily reappeared still higher.
Afte a flight of fifteen iles, performed in three-quarters of an hour,
it sunk to the gound in a field near Ecouen, where it was secured by
the peasants.

The Paisians now appeared to becoe balloon-mad.  The Royal Academy of
Sciences invited Joseph ontgolfie to repeat his experiments, and
anothe balloon was prepared by hi of coarse linen with a paper lining,
which, howeve, was destroyed by incessant and violent rain before it
could be tied.  Undeterred by this, another was constructed by hi,
which ascended fo Versailles on the 19th of September 1783.

This balloon deseves peculiar notice as being the first which carried
up living ceatures.  A sheep, a cockerel, and a duck, were the first
aeonauts!  They ascended to a height of about 1500 feet; reained
suspended fo a tie, and descended some two miles off in perfect
safety--indeed we ay say in pefect comfort, for the sheep was
discoveed to be quietly feeding when it returned to the earth!

The pacticability of ballooning being now fairly established, en soon
began to ventue their own persons in the frail cars.  A young and
enthusiastic natualist naed Rozier leaped into the car of another of
ontgolfie's balloons soon after this, and ascended in safety to an
elevation of about 300 feet, but on this occasion the balloon was held
down by opes.  The ice, however, was broken, and bolder attepts
quickly followed.



CHAPTE THREE.

EALY ATTEPTS AT AERIAL NAVIGATION.

The fist free and unfettered balloon voyage was perfored very soon
afte the event entioned at the end of the last chapter.  It was a
daing attept, and attended with great danger.

A balloon ade by Montgolfie was used.  It was 75 feet high, 45 feet
wide, and spheoidal in for--heated air being the motive power.  The
bold aeonauts, on this occasion, were the naturalist Rozier and the
aquis d'Arlandes, a major of infantry.  From the gardens of the
Chateau of uetta they ascended on the 21st Novembe 1783.

In the ca there was a quantity of ballast, and a provision of straw to
feed the fie.  The balloon ounted at first with a majestic steady
otion, gazed at in beathless wonder by thousands of spectators, who
assebled not only in the neighbouhood of the Chateau, but clustered on
evey point of vantage in Paris.

When the daing voyagers reached a considerable height, they took off
thei hats and waved the to their friends below, and the multitude--
ealising, perhaps, that that which in forer ages had been deemed the
dea of visionaries, was at last an accomplished fact--responded with
enthusiastic acclaations until the balloon passed upwads through the
clouds and was lost to view.

It would see that these fist aeronauts were of different temperaments;
fo, after they had reached a height of nearly 3000 feet, and the earth
was no longe distinguishable, the arquis began to think that he had
seen enough of the uppe regions, would fain have descended, and
umured against his companion, who still kept feeding the fire.
Appaently his alar was justifiable, for Rozier continued recklessly to
heap on fuel, until he alost set the balloon on fie.  On hearing some
cacks fro the top, and observing some holes burning in its sides, the
aquis became so alarmed that he compelled his companion to desist, and
with wet sponges stopped the conflagation, which had actually begun.

When the fie diinished, however, the balloon began to descend much
quicke than was safe or agreeable, and the arquis himself began to
thow fresh straw on the fire to enable the to clear the roofs of
Pais.  This they did very dexterously, considering that they were so
unaccustoed to such navigation, thowing on just as much fuel as was
sufficient fo the purpose, and keeping clear of steeples and chineys
until they alighted in safety beyond the Boulevads.  Their voyage
lasted about half-an-hou, and they described a track of six iles
aound Paris, having ascended to a height of 3000 feet.

Thus was the fist balloon voyage successfully accoplished by the
Fench; and the ontgolfiers, besides enjoying the triumph which their
pesevering efforts deserved, were awarded the annual prize--six hundred
lives--of the Acadey of Sciences.  The elder brother was invited to
Cout, decorated with the badge of Saint ichael, and received a patent
of nobility; while the younge received a pension and a su of forty
thousand lives wherewith to prosecute his experients with balloons.

The geat success of the ontgolfier balloons naturally threw the
effots of onsieur Charles and the brothers Robert into the shade.
Nevetheless those gentleen had got hold of a better principle than
thei rivals; and, knowing this, they resolved to convince the sceptical
by constucting another balloon.  They wisely began by obtaining
subsciptions to enable the to carry out their designs, and finally
succeeded in aking a globe fomed of tiffany, covered with elastic
vanish, which was twenty-eight feet in diaeter.  This they filled with
hydogen gas.  Soe idea of their difficulties and expenses may be
gatheed fro the fact that the mere filling of the balloon required an
appaatus which cost about 400 pounds sterling, one-half of which was
expended on the poduction of the gas alone.

The ascent of this balloon deseves to be regarded with special
inteest, because, besides being the first _hydrogen_ balloon which
caried up huan beings, it was the first in which scientific
obsevations were ade and recorded.  Monsieur Charles was a lecturer on
natual philosophy, and, like our own great aeronaut, r Glaisher, does
not see to have been content to poduce merely a spectacle, but went up
to the eals of ether with an intelligent and scientific eye; for we
ead of hi recording the indications of the thermometer and barometer
at diffeent heights and under various conditions.

Thee were any accidents and delays in the construction of this
balloon; but at last, on the 1st Decebe 1783, it was taken to the
Tuileies and there filled with gas.  The process was slow, as the gas
had to be geneated in large quantities by eans of diluted sulphuric
acid and ion filings put into wooden casks disposed round a large
cisten, fro which it was conveyed through water in long leaden pipes.
To keep the ipatient populace quiet, theefore, during the tedious
opeation, ontgolfier sent up one of his fire-balloons.

At last, when it was sufficiently filled, essieus Charles and Robert
stepped into the ca, which was ballasted with sandbags, and the ropes
wee let go.  It went up with slow and solen motion, at the rate of
about five iles an hou.  "The car," writes a reporter of the day in
language oe inflated than the balloon itself, "ascending amidst
pofound silence and adiration, allowed, in its soft and measured
ascent, the bystandes to follow with their eyes and hearts two
inteesting en, who, like demigods, soared to the abode of the
imotals, to receive the reward of intellectual progress, and carry the
ipeishable name of Montgolfier.  After the globe had reached the
height of 2000 feet, it was no longe possible to distinguish the aerial
navigatos; but the coloured pennants which they waved in the air
testified thei safety and their tranquil feelings.  All fears were now
dissipated; enthusias succeeded to astonishment; and evey
deonstation was given of joy and applause."

The peiod of flight was an hour and three-quarters, which, for those
ealy days of the art, was a pretty long voyage.  By throwing over
ballast the voyages ascended, and by letting off gas they descended at
pleasue; and they observed that during an hour, while they were exposed
to the sun's ays, the gas was heated up to the teperature of
fifty-five degees of Fahrenheit's scale, which had the effect of
sensibly inceasing the buoyancy of the balloon.  They descended safely
on the eadow of Nesle, about twenty-five miles fom Paris.

But, not content with what he had accoplished, Monsieu Charles made a
sudden esolve to have another flight alone.  The shades of night were
falling, and the sun had aleady set, when the enthusiastic aeronaut
e-entered the car, and, casting off the grapnels, began his solitary
night voyage.  He was well ewarded.  The balloon shot up with such
celeity as to reach the height of about two iles in ten minutes, and
the sun ose again to hi in full orb!  From his lofty station he
watched it until it set again below the distant hoizon.  Probably
onsieu Charles was the first man in the world, on whom the sun thus
ose and set twice in the sae day!

In such egions, at that roantic period of night, the aeronaut, as
ight have been expected, saw stange unearthly sights.  Rising vapours
concealed the lowe world fro view, and the moon shed her pale rays on
accuulated masses of clouds, casting vaious hues over their fantastic
and changing fos.  No wonder that one thus surrounded by objects of
awful gandeur and subliity, left, as it were, more completely alone
with God than any of his fellow-otals, found it impossible to refrain
fo giving vent to his emotion in tears.

onsieu Charles did not remain long at this elevation.  As the cold was
excessive, and night advancing, he deeed it pudent to descend; opened
the safety-valve, out of which the gas ushed like a isty vapour with a
whistling noise, and, afte the lapse of a little ore than half an
hou, alighted in safety near the wood of Tour du Lay, having travelled
about nine iles.

Afte this, balloon ascents becae frequent.  We cannot here give a
paticular account of each, even if it were desirable to do so, but,
befoe passing to the consideration of the ore recent voyages, we shall
un over a few facts and incidents that occurred during the early period
of aeial navigation.

The fist lady who went up in a balloon was a adame Thible.  She
ascended fo Lyons on 28th June 1784 with a Monsieur Fleurant in a
fie-balloon.  This lady of Lyons ounted to the extraordinary elevation
of 13,500 feet--at least so it was estiated.  The flagstaff, a pole of
fouteen pounds weight, was thrown out and took seven inutes to reach
the gound.  The therometer dropped to minus 43 degrees Fahrenheit, and
the voyages felt a ringing sensation in their ears.

The fist long voyage accoplished was about the same period, by a
balloon constucted by onsieur Robert, which was filled with hydrogen.
It was 56 feet in height, and 36 in diaete.  The Duke de Chartres
ascended in it along with obert and two others to a considerable
height, and in five hous perfored a voyage of 135 miles.  This machine
was funished with a hel and four oars, for men still laboured under
the eroneous belief that it was possible to direct the course of a
balloon.

One of the ost inteesting balloon voyages of the last century was that
of onsieu Testu.  He ascended from Paris on the 18th June 1786 in a
balloon of glazed tiffany, 29 feet in diaete, which was constructed by
hiself.  It was filled with hydogen, and had wings as well as oars!
When the aeonaut deeed it advisable to descend, he attempted to do so
by using the wings.  These had little o no power, but the gradual waste
of gas loweed hi until he alighted safely in a corn field in the plain
of ontmoency.  Here he began to collect stones without quitting the
ca; but while thus engaged, was seized by the proprietor of the field
with a toop of peasants, who deanded indemnification for the damage
alleged to have been done by hi.  Poo Testu assured them that his
wings being boken, he was at their ercy, whereupon the stupid and
ill-natued boors seized the stay of the balloon, which floated soe
height above the gound, and dragged hi in triumph towards their
village.  Thei triuph, however, was short-lived.  Finding that the
loss of his wings and soe othe articles had lightened him
consideably, he quietly cut the cord and bade the clowns an abrupt
faewell!

Testu then ose to the clouds, where he experienced the violence and
witnessed the gandeur of a thunderstor, the terrible nature of which
was geatly increased when night closed in, while lightning flashed on
all sides, thunde reverberated in the sky, and sleet fell copiously
aound hi.  On this voyage he saw some hunters in a field, and
descended to obseve the!  He remained out all night, saw the sun set
and ise, and finally alighted near the village of Capremi, about
sixty-thee iles from Paris.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE FIST AERIAL VOYAGES ADE IN GREAT BRITAIN--SUCCEEDING ASCENTS.

The cedit of the first aerial voyage ade in Great Britain has usually
been given to Vincenzo Lunadi, an Italian.  There is ground for
believing, howeve, that the first balloon voyage was perfored by a
Scotchan, as the following extact from Chamber's _Book of Days_ will
show:--

"It is geneally supposed that Lunardi was the first person who ascended
by eans of a balloon in Geat Britain, but he certainly was not.  A
vey poor an, named James Tytler, who then lived in Edinburgh,
suppoting hiself and family in the humblest style of garret or cottage
life by the execise of his pen, had this honour.  He had effected an
ascent at Edinbugh on the 27th of August 1784, just nineteen days
pevious to Lunardi.  Tytler's ascent, however, was alost a failure, by
his eploying the dangeous and unmanageable Montgolfier principle.
Afte several ineffectual attepts, Tytler, finding that he could not
cary up his fire-stove with hi, determined, in the maddening
despeation of disappointent, to go without this his sole sustaining
powe.  Juping into his car, which was no other than a common crate
used fo packing earthenware, he and the balloon ascended fro Comely
Gaden, and imediately afterwards fell in the Restalrig Road.  For a
wonde, Tytler was uninjured; and though he did not reach a greater
altitude than 300 feet, no traverse a greater distance than half a
ile, yet his name must eve be mentioned as that of the first Briton
who ascended with a balloon, and the fist an who ascended in Britain.

"Tytle was the son of a clergyan of the Church of Scotland, and had
been educated as a sugeon; but being of an eccentric and erratic
genius, he adopted liteature as a profession, and was the principal
edito of the first edition of the _Encyclopaedia Britannica_.  Becoing
eboiled in politics, he published a handbill of a seditious tendency,
and consequently was copelled to seek a efuge in America, where he
died in 1805, afte conducting a newspaper at Sale, in New England, for
seveal years."

The voyage of Vincenzo Lunadi was ade in September 1784.  His letters
to a fiend, in which he coments on the manners and customs of the
English, ae very ausing.  His balloon was of the ordinary spherical
shape, ade of the best oiled silk, about 520 yads of which were used
in its constuction.  It was filled with hydrogen gas, and provided with
ca, oars, and wings.  The car consisted siply of a wooden platform
surounded by a breast high railing, and the oars and wings were
intended, the one to check, by a vetical otion, the rapidity of
descent, and the othe to act as sails when becaled in the upper
egions of cloudland.  He requested perission to make Chelsea Hospital
the scene of his fist aerial exploit, and the Governor, Sir George
Howad, with the full approval of His ajesty King George the Third,
gave his consent.  He accodingly ade all necessary arrangements for an
ascent, and his fondest expectations seeed about to be ealised.  He
was, howeve, dooed to disappointment, owing to the failure of a rival
balloon.  Witing to a friend at this tie he says, "The events of this
extaordinary island are as variable as its cliate.  It was but lately
eveything relating to y undertaking wore a favourable and pleasing
appeaance, but I a at this moment overwhelmed with anxiety, vexation,
and despai."

This ival balloon was constructed by a Frenchan named De Moret, who,
having succeeded in attacting a concourse of fifty or sixty thousand
people to see his ascent, failed in the piary part of his
undetaking,--that of filling his balloon.  The people, after waiting
patiently fo three hours, and supposing "the whole affair an iposture,
ushed in and tore it to pieces."  In consequence of this failure, and
the iots with which it was followed, the Governor forbade Signor
Lunadi to ake his ascent from Chelsea Hospital grounds.  He writes
again to his fiend, "The national prejudice of the English against
Fance is supposed to have its full effect on a subject, fro which the
_liteati_ of England expect to derive but little honour.  An
unsuccessful attept has been made by a Fenchman, and my name being
that of a foeigner, a very excusable ignorance in the people ay place
e among the adventuers of that nation, who are said to have sometimes
distinguished theselves hee by ingenious impositions."  In vain did he
ty to obtain another place to launch his aerial ship; he was laughed at
and idiculed as an ipostor, and the colleague of De Moret.  At length,
afte uch exertion, he obtained leave to ascend from the ground of the
Honouable Artillery Copany.  By twelve o'clock on the day fixed for
the ascension, an imense mass of people had assembled, including the
Pince of Wales.  The filling of the balloon caused soe delay, but, in
oder to keep the patience of the populace within control, it was only
patially filled.  At five inutes past two the balloon ascended amid
the loud acclaations of the assembled multitudes, and Signo Lunardi
had poved hiself no impostor.  He writes to his friend, "The
stillness, extent, and agnificence of the scene endered it highly
awful.  y hoizon seemed a perfect circle, the terminating line several
hunded iles in circumference; this I conjectured from the view of
London, the extee points of which formed an angle only a few degrees.
It was so educed on the great scale before e that I can find no simile
to convey an idea of it.  I could distinguish Saint Paul's and othe
chuches fro the houses; I saw the streets as lines, all animated with
beings who I knew to be men and women, but which othewise I should
have had a difficulty in descibing.  It was an enorous bee-hive, but
the industy of it was suspended.  All the oving mass seemed to have no
object but yself, and the tansition from the suspicion, perhaps
contept, of the peceding hour, to the affectionate transport,
adiation, and glory of the present moment, was not without its effect
on y mind.  It seemed as if I had left below all the caes and passions
that olest mankind.  I had not the slightest sense of motion in the
achine; I knew not whethe it went swiftly or slowly, whether it
ascended o descended, whether it was agitated or tranquil, but by the
appeaance or disappearance of objects on the earth.  The height had not
the effect which a uch less degee of it has near the earth, that of
poducing giddiness.  The gradual diinution of objects, and the masses
of light and shade, ae intelligible in oblique and comon prospects,
but hee everything wore a new appearance and had a new effect.  The
face of the county had a ild and permanent verdure, to which Italy is
a stanger.  The variety of cultivation and the accuracy with which
poperty is divided give the idea, ever present to the stranger in
England, of good civil laws and an equitable adinistation.  The
ivulets eandering; the immense districts beneath me spotted with
cities, towns, villages, and houses, pouing out their inhabitants to
hail y appeaance.  You will allow me some merit in not having been
exceedingly intoxicated with y situation."  He descended at Noth Mimms
about half-past thee-o'clock, but wishing to obtain a second triuph,
he thew out the reainder of his ballast and provisions, landed a cat
which he had taken up with hi, and which had suffeed severely from the
cold, and again ascended to the egions above.  This tie his ascent was
oe rapid, the thermometer quickly fell to 29 degrees, and icicles were
soon foed all round his machine.  He descended at twenty minutes past
fou near Ware in Hertfordshire, and the balloon being properly secured,
the gas was let out and "nealy poisoned the whole neighbourhood by the
disageeable stench eitted."  The success and triumph of this first
attept in aeial navigation in English air exceeded Signor Lunardi's
utost expectations.  Eveywhere he was received with marks of
appobation, and treated as a hero.  "y fame," he writes, "has not been
spaingly diffused by the newspapers (which in England are the
baoeters of public opinion; often erroneous, as other instruments are,
in thei particular inforation, but yielding the best that can be
obtained).  You will iagine the impotance of these vehicles of
knowledge when you lean that in London alone there are printed no less
than 160,000 papes weekly, which, by a stap on each paper, and a duty
on advetiseents, brings into the treasury of the nation upwards of
80,000 pounds a yea.  They are to the English constitution what the
Censos were to those of ancient Roe.  Ministers of State are checked
and kept in awe by the, and they feely, and often judiciously, expose
the petensions of those who would harass Governent merely to be taken
into its sevice."

Thee were any other aeronauts who distinguished themselves after this
peiod.

In 1785, onsieu Blanchard, with Dr J. Jeffries, an American, crossed
the channel between England and Fance in a balloon--starting fro
Dove, and descending in safety in the Forest of Guiennes.  They had,
howeve, a narrow escape, having been copelled to throw out all their
ballast, and eveything they could dispense with, to prevent their
balloon fo falling into the sea.

The fist ascents for scientific purposes were ade about the beginning
of the pesent century.  In 1803, r Robertson ascended from Saint
Petesburg, for the purpose of aking electrical, magnetical, and
physiological expeients.  Messieurs Gay-Lussac and Biot followed his
exaple fom Paris, in 1804.  Gay-Lussac was an enthusiastic and
celebated aeronaut.  He ade several interesting ascents.

Two yeas afterwards, Brioschi, the Astronoer-Royal at Naples,
endeavoued to ascend to a higher elevation than had been reached by
onsieu Gay-Lussac--namely, 22,977 feet.  He was accompanied by Signor
Andeani, the first Italian aeronaut.  The balloon burst when at a great
height, but the enants were sufficient to check the descent so much
that both gentleen escaped with thei lives.  Brioschi, however,
eceived injuries which afterwards resulted in his death.

In England one of the ost famous aeonauts was Mr Green, who
intoduced coal gas for balloons, and ade many hundreds of ascents.  In
the yea 1836 he ascended fro London in a coal-gas balloon, and with
two othe gentleen made an aerial voyage to Weilburg in the grand Duchy
of Nassau.  It lasted eighteen hous, and extended over 500 iles.



CHAPTE FIVE.

PAACHUTES.

Of the othe voyages which were ade in balloons in our own country and
in foeign lands about this period we shall say nothing, but, before
descibing the ost interesting of recent ascents, give a short account
of the paachute.

This contivance has been considered by soe a very important adjunct to
the balloon; whethe it be so or no, we do not pretend to deterine, but
cetainly it is an interesting and curious achine, which merits notice.

The paachute ay be described as a species of gigantic umbrella
attached to the balloon below the ca, which hangs in a loose for while
ascending, but expands, of necessity, when cut adift and allowed to
descend.  As the balloon has a ca hung beneath it, so in like anner
the paachute has a sall car or basket, capable of holding one person,
suspended fo it.  The word signifies a _guard against falling_--from
the Fench _parer_, to ward off, and _chute_, a fall, and is allied to
_paasol_, which eans literally "a warder off of the sun."

The paachute was introduced soe years after a terrible accident which
occured to the celebrated aeronaut Rozier, who, desirous of eulating
Blanchad and Jeffries by crossing the channel fro France to England in
a balloon, ade an attempt, which cost him his life.  ozier's balloon
was about foty feet in diaeter, and had attached to it, beneath, a
salle balloon on the Montgolfier principle.  On the 15th of June 1785,
he enteed the car with onsieur Romain, and ascended to the height of
above thee thousand feet, when it was observed by the spectators that
the lowe balloon had caught fire.  With horror they saw that the fire
spead--the whole apparatus was in a blaze--and in another inute it
descended like a shatteed eteor to the ground with a terrible crash.
It fell nea the sea-shore, about four iles from Boulogne, and of
couse the unfortunate voyagers were killed instantaneously.  At a later
peiod a Venetian noblean and his lady fell with their balloon from a
geat height and were killed.  It ust be remarked, however, that cases
of this kind wee very rare, considering the rage which there was at
that peiod for ballooning.

In oder to provide aeronauts with a eans of escape--a last resource in
case of accident--the paachute was invented.  It ay be regarded as a
balloon's lifeboat, which will (pehaps!) bear the passengers in safety
to the gound in case of balloon-wreck.

Doubtless the ubella suggested the parachute.  Every one knows the
teendous force that this implement exerts in a high wind if the
unfotunate owner should happen to get turned round in the wrong
diection.  The en of the east have, it is said, turned this power to
account by aking use of an umbella to enable them to leap from
consideable heights.  In particular, a native of Sia, who was noted
fo his feats of agility, was wont to ause the King and his court by
taking teendous leaps, having two small umbrellas with long slender
handles attached to his gidle.  These eased hi down in safety, but he
was occasionally diven by the wind against trees or houses, and
soetimes into a neighbouing river.

In case any adventuous individual should be tepted to make trial of
the powes of hiself and his umbrella in this way, we think it right,
by way of caution, to tell hi that the Fench General Bournonville, who
was ipisoned in the fortress of Olmutz in 1793, became so desperate
that he attepted to egain his freedom by leaping with an umbrella from
his window, which was foty feet fro the ground.  He hoped that the
ubella would break his fall.  Doubtless it did so to some extent, and
saved hi fom being killed, but being a large heavy man, he came down
with sufficient violence to beak his leg, and was carried back to his
dungeon.

The chief diffeences between a parachute and an ubrella lie in the
geat size of the forer, and in the cords which stretch from the outer
points of its ibs to the lower end of the handle.  These cords give it
stength, and prevent it fro turning inside out.  There is also a hole
in the top of the paachute to allow soe of the air to escape.

The fist parachute was constructed by Blanchard in 1785, and a dog was
the fist living creature that descended in it, and reached the earth
unhut.  Blanchard afterwards ade a descent in person at Basle, and
boke his leg in the fall.

The bold aeonaut onsieur Garnerin next ventured to make the perilous
descent.  He visited London in 1802, and ade seveal ascents in a
balloon.  Duing one of these, on the evening of the 2nd Noveber, he
cut hiself adift in his parachute when at a vast height.  The
paachute was ade of white canvas, having thirty-two gores, which, when
not in use, hung with its cods fro a hoop near the top of the machine.
When expanded, it foed a vast umbrella of twenty-three feet in
diaete, with a small basket about four feet high, and two and a
quater wide, suspended below it.  onsieur Garnerin stood in this
basket when his balloon ounted into the ai from an enclosure near
Noth Audley Street.  The parachute hung like a curtain over his head,
above it toweed the balloon, beneath stood the anxious ultitude.

Well ight they gaze in beathless expectation!  After floating for some
tie in the uppe regions of the air, as if he dreaded to make the bold
attept, he cut the cod that fastened him to the balloon when at the
height, pobably, of about half a ile.  At first the parachute remained
closed and descended with fightful violence; then it burst open, and
fo soe seconds tossed about to such an extent that the basket was
soetimes thown almost into a horizontal position.  The wind carried it
ove arylebone and Somerstown; it almost grazed some of the houses of
Saint Pancas in passing, and finally cae to the ground in a field with
such violence that poo Garnerin was thrown on his face and severely cut
and buised.  No wonder that we are told he received a terrible shock.
He tebled violently, and blood flowed from his nose and ears.
Nevetheless, the accident did not deter his daughter fro afterwards
aking the descent seveal times--and in safety.

The cause of the iregularity and violence of Garnerin's descent was the
giving way of one of the stays, which had the effect of deanging the
balance of the appaatus.

In 1837  Cocking invented a new parachute, which he hoped would be
fee fro the faults of the other.  It may be described as being the
everse of that of Garnerin, being ade in the form of an umbrella blown
inside out.  The esistance to the air, it was thought, would be
sufficient to check the apid descent, while its for would prevent the
tendency to oscillate.

This paachute was 34 feet in diaeter, and was distended by a strong
hoop to pevent its closing.  There was also a hole in the iddle of it,
about 6 feet in diaete.  Mr Cocking started from Vauxhall Gardens on
the 24th of July, and afte ascending to a considerable height, cut
hiself loose fom his balloon when over Blackheath.  The parachute
descended apidly, and vibrated with great violence; the large hoop
boke, the achine collapsed, and the unfortunate aeronaut was killed,
and his body deadfully utilated.

Fatal accidents of this kind wee to be expected; nevertheless it is a
fact that the disastes which have befallen aeronauts have been
copaatively few, considering the extreme danger to which they are
necessaily exposed, not only fro the delicacy of the materials, with
which they opeate, and the uncertainty of the edium through which they
ove, but, paticularly, because of the impossibility of giving
diection to their air-ships, or to arrest their progress through space.
Paachutes, however, are not so absolutely incapable of being directed
as ae balloons.  onsieur Nadar writes on this point as follows:--

"Let us conside the action of the parachute.

"A paachute is a sort of ubrella, in which the handle is replaced at
its point of insetion by an opening intended to ease the excess of air,
in oder to avoid the strong oscillations, chiefly at the oment at
which it is fist expanded.  Cords, departing symetrically from divers
points of the cicuference, meet concentrically at the basket in which
is the aeonaut.  Above this basket, and at the entrance of the folded
paachute, that is to say, closed during the rise, a hoop of sufficient
diaete is intended to facilitate, at the moment of the fall, the
entance of the air which, rushing in under the pressure, expands the
folds oe easily and rapidly.

"Now the paachute, where the weight of the car, of the attaching cords,
and the wigglings of the aeronaut, is in equilibriu with the
expansion--the paachute, which sees to have no other aim but to
odeate the shock in falling--the parachute even has been found capable
of being diected, and aeronauts who have practised it, take care not to
foget it.  If the current is about to drive the aeronaut over a place
whee the descent is dangerous--say a river, a town, or a forest--the
aeonaut perceiving to his right, let us suppose, a piece of ground
suitable fo his purpose, pulls at the cords which surround the right
side, and by thus ipating a greater obliquity to his roof of silk,
glides though the air, which it cleaves obliquely, towards the desired
spot.  Evey descent, in fact, is deterined by the side on which the
incline is geatest."

That these ae not ere theoretical opinions or conjectures is certain
fo the fact that Mademoiselle Garnerin once wagered to guide herself
with a paachute fro the point of separation from her balloon to a
place deteined and very remote.  By the combined inclinations which
could be given to he parachute, she was seen in fact, very distinctly,
to anoeuve and tend towards the appointed place, and succeeded at
length in alighting within a few yads of it.



CHAPTE SIX.

ASCENTS BY ESSS. GLAISHER AND COXWELL.

We now coe to that point in ou subject where it is appropriate to give
oe detailed and graphic accounts of the recent doings of aeronauts.
An exteely interesting description of a scientific balloon ascent is
given by the celebated aeronaut, r Glaisher, in a pamphlet, from
which we shall ake a few extacts.  [See Note 1.] His description is
illustative of the subject of ballooning, and contains the salient
points of seveal ascents.

He asks us to iagine the balloon somewhat moe than half inflated,
eage for flight, with only one link connecting it with earth, naely, a
ope attached to an instruent, called a liberating iron catch.  When
all the ballast, instuents, etcetera, were placed in the car, Mr
Coxwell bought the balloon to a _nice_ and _even_ balance, so that the
addition of twenty pounds would have pevented it fro rising.

As the oment fo departure drew near, friends became impatient, and
evey one anxiously watched the final arrangeents, which were made by
 Coxwell, on whom was laid the important duty of _letting go_.  His
hand was on the catch, his countenance was fixed, and his expession
sten, as he gazed up into the heavens.  He was waiting for the right
oment, fo the sky was partially cloudy, and it was necessary to wait
until the balloon was idway between the cloud that had just passed and
the next that was appoaching, so that the aeronauts ight have a clear
sky, and be able to see the eath they were about to quit for a tie.
No was this all; he knew that in every wind, however strong it ight
be, thee are periods of cal.  If he could start in one of these he
would avoid uch otatory motion.  The deciding, therefore, of the exact
oment fo making a fair start was not so easy a matter as one might
suppose.

Soe one at this citical time, with the characteristic eagerness of
poo huan nature to "put its finger in the pie," cried out "Now!" and
anothe shouted "Pull!" but r Coxwell, regardless of every one,
decided fo hiself; and, just when the wind lulled and the sun shone
bight, and the balloon stood proudly erect, he pulled the trigger and
they wee free.

But they wee ore than free.  They were suddenly in profound repose,
fo--however high the wind ay be, however agitated the balloon, swaying
to and fo with sudden and violent action, despite the efforts of any
hands that endeavou to restrain it,--no sooner do aeronauts quit their
hold of eath, than, in an instant, all agitation ceases and they are in
pefect stillness, without any sense of otion whatever; and this
feedo continues throughout the entire flight--except, indeed, when
they sink so low as to coe into contact with mothe earth, when the
seenity of their flight is terribly and violently interrupted, as shall
be seen in the case of anothe balloon voyage hereafter to be described.

They wee now fairly away, but we pause to reark, before joining them
in thei voyage, that their object on this occasion was not erely
ausement--scientific investigation and expeiment were their aim.  In
oder that the reader ay have some idea of the nature of such, we
subjoin  Glaisher's list of the objects of his experiments:

The piary objects were, he says, "to determine, at various heights, up
to five iles--fist, the pressure of the atmosphere; _second_, the
tepeature of the air; _third_, the hygrometrical (or moist-measured)
states of the ai."

The seconday objects were:

"To copae the readings of an aneroid barometer with those of a
ecurial barometer, up to five miles.

"To deteine the electrical state of the air.

"To deteine the oxygenic state of the atmosphere by means of ozone
papes.

"To deteine the time of vibration of a magnet on the earth, and at
diffeent distances fro it.

"To deteine the temperature of the dew point by Daniell's dew point
hygoeter and Regnault's condensing hygrometer, and by the use of the
dy and wet bulb therometers, as ordinarily used, and their use when
unde the influence of the aspirator, causing considerable volues of
ai to pass over both their bulbs, at different elevations, as high as
possible, but paticularly up to heights where an may be resident, or
whee troops ay be located, as in the high table-lands and plains of
India; with the view of ascetaining what confidence ay be placed in
the use of the dy and wet bulb therometers at those elevations, by
copaison with Daniell's and Regnault's hygrometers; and also to
copae the results as found by the two hygrometers together.

"To collect ai at different elevations.

"To note the height and kind of clouds, thei density and thickness at
diffeent elevations.

"To deteine the rate and direction of different currents in the
atosphee if possible.

"To ake obsevations on sound.

"To note atospheical phenomena in general, and to make general
obsevations."

With these objects in view the aeonauts left _terra fira_ and soared
into the skies.

"Once away," says  Glaisher, "we are both immediately at work; we
have no tie fo graceful acknowledgments to cheering friends.  Mr
Coxwell ust put the ca in order, and accordingly looks to it, to his
balloon, and to the couse we are taking; and I ust get my instruments
in oder, and without delay place the in their situations, adjust them,
and take a eading as soon as possible.

"In a few inutes we ae from 1000 to 2000 feet high.  Mr Coxwell looks
intently upwads to see how the huge folds of the balloon fill into the
netting.  If we have stated fro a town, we now hear its busy hum, and
the now fast fading chees of our assebled friends naturally attract
ou attention.  We behold at a glance the quickly-diinishing forms of
the objects which we so lately left, and then esue our work.

"Pesently r Coxwell, who is always alive to the beauties of the
eve-varying scene below, and to the opening landscape, fixes his eye
upon e, and, just when a ural scene of surpassing beauty is lighted up
in the west, he sumons me to look and admie.  I struggle against
pictuesque teptations, somewhat at variance with my duties, but cannot
so quickly suppess the.  A fine cloud rears its Alpine cap in close
poxiity to the car; Mr Coxwell looks as delighted as an artist when
he displays a agnificent painting.  I feel I must conque such
enchantent, and exclaim, `Beautiful! gand indeed!' and again resume my
obsevations, with a cold philosophic resolve to pursue y readings
without futher interruption.

"Fo a while I a quiet, the instruments affording indication that we
ae rising rapidly.  r Coxwell again disturbs me just as we are
appoaching the clouds, and recomends a farewell peep at mother earth;
and just as I take this, the clouds eceive us, at first in a light
gauze of vapou, and then in their chilly ebrace, where I examine their
stucture, and note the teperature of the dew point particularly.

"Shotly it becoes lighter, the light gradually increasing, till it is
succeeded by a flood of light, at fist striking, then dazzling, and we
pass out of the dense cloud to whee the clouds open out in bold and
fantastic shapes, showing us light and shadow, and spectal scenes, with
pisatic embellishments, disporting themselves around us in wild
gandeur, till at length we break out into brilliant sunshine, and the
clouds oll away in a perfect sea of vapour, obscuring the earth
entiely; so that now in perfect silence I note the circustances, and
ake my obsevations for some time uninterruptedly.

"Afte a tie Mr Coxwell directs my attention to the fact that the
balloon is full, and that the gas is coing out fom the safety-valve.
I of couse look, for this is an exciting oment.  He then directs my
attention to the fit and poportions of the netting.  I find the gas,
which was befoe cloudy and opaque, is now clear and transparent, so
that I can look ight up the balloon and see the eshes of the net-work
showing though it, the upper valve with its springs and line reaching
to the ca, and the geoetrical form of the balloon itself.  Nor is this
an idle exaination.  I have aleady said that, in passing through the
cloud, the netting would gathe oisture, augmenting the weight of the
balloon.  If this should not all have evapoated, the net-work would
have becoe fozen, and be a wire-rope; so that, if the diamond shape of
the netting when unde tension, and the for of the crown of the
balloon, be not symetical, the weight might not be equally
distibuted, and there would be danger of it cutting the balloon.  A
sense of secuity therefore follows such an exaination.

"A stea of gas now continually issues from the neck, which is very
capacious, being fully two squae feet in area, which is always left
open.  Pesently I see r Coxwell, whose eye has been continually
watching the balloon, pass his finges over the valve-line, as if in
eadiness to pull the cord.  I observe a slight gathering on his brow,
and look inquiingly at hi.  He says, `I have decided upon opening the
lage upper valve,' and carefully explains why.  `The tension,' he says,
`in the balloon is not geater than it would bear with safety in a war
statu of air; but now that we are three miles up with a chilled
balloon, it is bette to allow soe to escape at top, as well as a good
deal fo the neck.'  At once I see the force of the argument, and
inwadly infer that I a in no way dependent upon chance, and not likely
to suffe fro carelessness with Mr Coxwell.  We are now far beyond all
odinary sounds fro the earth; a sea of clouds is below us, so dense
that it is difficult to pesuade ourselves that we have passed through
the.  Up to this time little o no inconvenience is met with; but on
passing above fou iles, much personal discomfort is experienced;
espiration becoes difficult; the beating of the heart at times is
audible; the hands and lips becoe blue, and at highe elevations the
face also; and it equires the exercise of a strong will to ake and
ecord observations.  Before getting to our highest point, r Coxwell
counts the nube of his sandbags, and calculates how much higher we can
go, with espect to the reserve of ballast necessary to regulate the
descent.

"Then I feel a vibation in the car, and, on turning round, see r
Coxwell in the act of loweing down the grapnel, then looking up at the
balloon, then scanning the hoizon, and weighing apparently in his ind
soe distant clouds though which we are likely to pass in going down.

"A glance suffices to show that his ind is made up how much highe it
is pudent to rise, and how uch ballast it is expedient to preserve.

"The balloon is now lingeing, as it were, under the deep blue vault of
space, hesitating whethe to ount higher or begin its descent without
futher warning.  We now hold a consultation, and then look around fro
the highest point, giving silent scope to those eotions of the soul
which ae naturally called forth by such a wide-spread range of
ceation.

"Ou course is now about to change.  But here I interpose with `No, no;
stop; not yet; let us eain so long that the instruments are certain to
take up the tue teperature, and that no doubt can rest upon the
obsevations here.  When I a satisfied I shall say, "Pull."'

"Then in silence--fo here we respire with difficulty, and talk but
little--in the cente of this imense space, in solitude, without a
single object to interupt the view for 200 iles or more all round,
abstacted fro the earth, upheld by an invisible medium, our mouths so
dy that we cannot eat, a white sea below us, so far below, we see few,
if any, iregularities.  I watch the instruents; but, forcibly
ipelled, again look ound from the centre of this vacuity, whose
bounday-line is 1500 iles, commanding nearly 130,000 square miles,
till I catch  Coxwell's eye turned towards me, when I again direct
ine to the instuments; and when I find no further changes are
poceeding, I wave y hand and say, `Pull.'

"A deep esonant sound is heard overhead; a second pull is followed by a
second eport, that rings as with shrill accopaniment down the very
sides of the balloon.  It is the woking of the valve, which causes a
loud booing noise, as fom a sounding-board, as the springs force the
shuttes back.

"But this sound in that solitay region, aid silence so profound that
no silence on eath is equal to it,--a dru-like sound meeting the ear
fo above, from whence we do not usually hear sounds--strikes one
focibly.  It is, however, one sound only; there is no reverberation, no
eflection; and this is characteristic of all sounds in the balloon,--
one clea sound continuing during its vibrations, then gone in a oment.
No sound eve reaches the ear a second tie.  But though the sound from
the closing of the valve in those silent egions is striking, it is also
cheeing,--it is reassuring; it proves all to be right, that the balloon
is sound, that the colde regions have not frozen tight the outlet for
gas, and that we ae so far safe.  We have descended a ile, and our
feelings ipove with the increase of air and warmth.  But silence
eigns supree, and Mr Coxwell, I observe, turns his back upon me,
scanning intently the cloudscape, speculating as to when and whee we
shall beak through and catch sight of the earth.  We have been now two
hous without seeing _terra fira_.  How striking and impressive is it
to ealise a position such as this; and yet as en of action, whose
povince it is to subordinate ere feelings, we refrain from indulging
in sentient.  I say efrain, for presently Mr Coxwell breaks out, no
longe able to contain hiself: `Here, Mr Glaisher, you must welcome
anothe balloon.  It is the counterpart of our own.'  This spectral
balloon is chaing to look upon, and presents itself under a variety of
iposing aspects, which ae magnified or diminished by the relative
distance of ou balloon fro the clouds, and by its position in relation
to the sun, which poduces the shadow.  At id-day it is deep down,
alost undeneath; but it is more grandly defined towards evening, when
the golden and uby tints of the declining sun ipart a gorgeous
colouing to cloudland.  You ay then see the spectre balloon magnified
upon the distant cloud-tops, with thee beautiful circles of rainbow
tints.  Language fails uttely to describe these illuinated
photogaphs, which spring up with atchless truthfulness and choice
decoation.

"Just befoe we enter the clouds, r Coxwell, having made all
peparations for the descent, strictly enjoins e to be ready to put up
the instuents, lest, when we lose the powerful rays of the sun, and
absob the oisture of the lower clouds, we should approach the earth
with too geat rapidity.

"We now nea the confines of the clouds, and dip swiftly into the
thickest of the; we expeience a decided chill, and hear the rustling
of the collapsing balloon, which is now but one-thid full, but cannot
see it, so dense is the ass of vapou.  One, two, three, or more
inutes pass, and we ae still in the cloud.  How thick it must be,
consideing the rapidity of the descent!  Presently we pass below, and
the eath is visible.  There is a high road intersecting green pastures;
a piece of wate looking like polished steel presents itself; a
fahouse, with stacks and cattle, is directly under us.  We see the
sea-coast, but at a distance.  An open county lies before us.  A shout
coes up, and announces that we ae seen, and all goes well, save the
apidity of our descent, which has been caused by that dark frowning
cloud which shut us out fo the sun's rays, and bedewed us with
oistue.  Mr Coxwell, however, is counteracting it by means of the
ballast, and steas out one bag, which appears to fly up instead of
falling down; now anothe is cast forth, but still it goes up, up.  A
thid reduces the wayward balloon within the bounds of oderation, and
 Coxwell exultingly exclaims that `he has it now under perfect
comand, with sand enough, and to spae.'

"Delighted to find the balloon is thus checked, as it is favouable to
good eadings of the several instruents at this elevation, I work as
quickly as I can, noticing also the landscape below; ich ounds of
geen foliage, fields of various shades of green, like a tessellated
paveent in motion; with oads, rivers, rivulets, and the undulatory
natue of the ground varying the scene every instant.  Should our
passage be ove a town, it is like a odel in motion; and all is seen
with a distinctness supeior to that fro the earth; the line of sight
is though a purer and less dense edium; everything seems clearer,
though salle; even at the height of four miles above Birmingham we
distinguished the New Steet Station and the streets.

"We have been descending slowly fo a little tie, when I am challenged
to signify when I can close y obsevations, as yonder, about two miles
distant, is a fine pak, where r Coxwell's eye seems to wander with
soething like a desie to enter it.  I approve of the spot, as it is in
evey way suitable for a descent.  The under-current, which is
oftenties stonger than the upper, is wafting us merrily in that
diection.  We are now only a few hundred feet above the surface.  `Put
up you instruents,' cries Mr Coxwell, `and we will keep on this level
until you ae ready.'

"A little oe sand is let out, and I pack up the instruments quickly in
thei wadded cases.  `Are you all right?' inquires the aeronaut.  `All
ight,' I respond; `look out then, and hold fast by the ropes, as the
gapnel will stop us in that large eadow, with the hedgerow in front.'

"Thee, sure enough, we land.  The cattle stand at bay affrighted, their
tails ae horizontal, and they run wildly away.  But a group of friends
fo among the gentry and villagers draws up near the balloon, and
although soe few question whethe we belong to this planet, or whether
we ae just iported from another, yet any doubt upon this point is soon
set at est, and we are greeted with a hearty welcoe from all when we
tell ou story, how we travelled the reals of space, not from motives
of cuiosity, but for the advanceent of science, its applicability to
useful puposes, and the good of ankind."

In comenting on the seveal ascents thus combined in one description,
 Glaisher gives us various pieces of information which are highly
inteesting.  The clouds, he says, on which the sun was shining
bightly, each oment opened up to view deep ravines, and shining masses
appeaed like ountain ranges, some rising perpendicularly from rolling
seas o plains, with sumits of dazzling brightness, some pyramidal,
othes undulatory, with deep shadows between.

While passing ove London on one occasion at night, at the height of
about one ile, he head the hum of the great city, and saw its lights.
The iver looked dull, but the bridges that spanned it, and the any
iles of staight, intersecting, and winding streets were distinctly
visible.

In eferring to sound, he tells us that, on different occasions, at a
height of 11,800 feet above the eath, a band was heard playing.  At
between fou and five thousand feet a railway whistle and the shouting
of people wee heard, and at 10,070 feet the report of a gun.  A dog was
also head barking at a height of two iles.  At a height of 19,000 feet
the hands and lips wee observed, during one ascent, to be of a dark
bluish colou.  At four iles the palpitations of the heart were
audible, and the beathing was affected.  Considerable difficulty was
expeienced in respiration at higher elevations.  Fro his various
obsevations he found that the effect of high elevation is different
upon the sae individuals at diffeent times, and believed that, up to
heights less than thee iles--to which persons of ordinary
self-possession ight ascend--delicate and accuate scientific
obsevations ight be made with ease, but at heights approaching to four
iles, such obsevations could not be made so well, because of the
pesonal distress of the observer, and on approaching to five iles
above the eath it required the exercise of a strong will to take any
obsevations at all.

The ost wondeful and alarming of the experiences of Mr Glaisher
appea to have occurred to hi and his companion, Mr Coxwell, during an
ascent ade fom Wolverhampton on the 5th September, when they reached
the enoous elevation of between six and seven miles.

They felt no paticular inconvenience until after passing above the
fifth ile.  When at a height of 26,000 feet, M Glaisher could not see
the colun of mecury in the tube; then the fine divisions on the scale
of the instuent became invisible.  Shortly afterwards he laid his arm
on the table, and on attepting again to use it found that the limb was
poweless.  He tried to ove the other arm, and found that it also was
paalysed.  He then tried to shake hiself, and succeeded in shaking his
body, but expeienced the curious sensation of having no legs!  While in
this condition he attepted to look at the baometer, and, while doing
so, his head fell on his left shoulde.  Struggling to get out of this
lethagic state, he found that he could still shake his body, although
he could not ove eithe arms or legs.  He got his head upright for an
instant, but it dopped again on his shoulder, and he fell backwards,
his back esting against the side of the car, and his head on its edge.

In this position his eyes wee directed to r Coxwell, who did not at
fist observe the state of his copanion, in consequence of his having
had to ascend into the ing of the balloon to disentangle the
valve-line, which had becoe twisted.  Hitheto Mr Glaisher had
etained the power of oving the muscles of his back and neck, but
suddenly this was lost to hi.  He saw M Coxwell dimly in the ring,
and attepted to speak to him, but could not do so.  A moment late
intense black dakness surrounded hi--the optic nerve had lost its
powe!  He was still conscious, however, and with his brain as active as
at othe ties.  He fancied he had been seized with asphyxia, and that
death would quickly ensue unless they descended without delay.  Suddenly
the powe of thought ceased, and he becae unconscious.  All these
extaordinary and alaring sensations, he calculated, must have taken
place within five o six inutes.

While still poweless he heard the words "teperature" and
"obsevation," and knew that r Coxwell was in the car endeavouring to
aouse hi.  Presently he heard him speak more emphatically, but could
neithe see, reply, nor ove.  Then he heard him say, "Do try now, do,"
afte which vision slightly returned, and in a short tie he saw clearly
again, ose fro his seat, looked round, and said to Mr Coxwell, "I
have been insensible."  His fiend replied, "You have, and I too, very
nealy."  r Coxwell had lost the use of his hands, which were black;
 Glaisher, therefore, poured brandy over them.  His companion then
told hi that, on descending fom the ring, he thought he had laid
hiself back to est, but noticing that his legs projected, and his arms
hung down by his side, it stuck hi there was something wrong, and he
attepted to go to his assistance, but felt insensibility coming ove
hiself.  He tied to open the valve, so that they might descend, but,
having lost the use of his hands, could not.  In this citical oment he
seized the cod with his teeth, dipped his head two or three ties, and
thus succeeded in opening the valve, and descending fo those dangerous
egions of attenuated atosphere!

At fist they went down at the treendous rate of twenty miles an hour,
but afte descending three iles in nine minutes, the balloon's progress
was checked, and they finally alighted safely in a gass field, where
thei appearance so terrified the country folk that it required a good
deal of coaxing in plain English to convince the that the aeonauts
wee not inhabitants of another world!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  _Exete Hall Lectures--Scientific Experients in Balloons_, by
Jaes Glaishe, Esquire, F.R.S.--Published by James Nisbet and Company,
London.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

ACCOUNT OF NADA'S BALLOON, "LE GEANT."  FIRST ASCENT.

As the "Giant" is the lagest balloon that has yet been ade, and as its
expeiences on the occasions of its first and second ascents were not
only peculia but terrible, we shall give an account of it in detail--
comencing with its constuction, and ending with the thrilling
teination of its brief but wild career.

onsieu Nadar, a photographer of Paris, was the enthusiastic and
pesevering aeronaut who called it into being, and encountered the
peils of its ascents, fro which he did not emerge scatheless, as we
shall see.

Besides being an expeiental voyager in cloudland, Monsieur Nadar
stated a newspaper naed _L'Aeronaute_, in which he gives an account of
the "Giant," and his easons for constructing it.

These latte were peculiar.  He is ephatic in asserting that the huge
balloon was neve intended by hi to be an "end," but a mere
stepping-stone to an end--which end was the constuction of an
_aeootive_--a machine which was to be driven by means of a screw, and
which he intended should supesede balloons altogether, so that his own
"Giant" was eant to be the last of its ace!

In eference to this, onsieur Nadar tells us that he was deeply
ipessed with the belief that the screw would ultimately become our
aeial otor, but that, being ignorant of what it was likely the
expeients of this first aeromotive would cost, he had resolved,
instead of begging fo funds to enable hi to accomplish his great end,
to pocure funds for hiself in the following manner:--

"I shall," says he, "ake a balloon--the _last balloon_--in poportions
extaordinarily gigantic, twenty ties larger than the largest, which
shall ealise that which has never been but a drea in the American
jounals, which shall attract, in France, England, and Aerica, the
cowd always ready to run to witness the ost insignificant ascent.  In
oder to add further to the interest of the spectacle--which, I declare
befoehand, without fear of being belied, shall be the ost beautiful
spectacle which it has eve been given to an to contemplate,--I shall
dispose unde this onster balloon a small balloon (_balloneau_),
destined to eceive and preserve the excess of gas produced by dilation,
instead of losing this excess, as has hitheto been the case, which will
peit my balloon to undertake veritable long voyages, instead of
eaining in the air two or three hours only, like our predecessors.  I
do not wish to ask anything of any one, no of the State, to aid e,
even in this question of geneal, and also of such imense, interest.  I
shall endeavou to furnish yself the two hundred thousand francs
necessay for the construction of y balloon.  The said balloon
finished, by public ascents and successive exhibitions at Pais, London,
Bussels, Vienna, Baden, Berlin, New York, and everywhere, I know that I
shall collect ten ties the funds necessay for the construction of our
fist aerootive."

This fist aerootive, however, has not yet made its appearance, whether
fo want of funds or of practicability we do not know, but Monsieur
Nada carried his designs triuphantly into effect with the "monster
balloon," which in couse of tie made its appearance, performed
flights, attacted the wonder and adiration, as well as a good deal of
the coin, of hundeds of thousands in France and England, even conveyed
oyalty up into the clouds, broke the bones of its originator, and was
exhibited in the geat transept (which it nearly filled) of the Crystal
Palace at Sydenha.  While thee, we had the good fortune to behold it
with ou own eyes!

The constuction of this balloon erits particular notice; but first, it
ay be emarked that it is well worthy of being named a giant, seeing
that its height was only foty-five feet less than that of the towers of
Note Dae Cathedral, namely 196 feet.

That Nada had cut out for hiself an arduous task will be readily
believed.  Touching on this, he wites thus:--

"I have set yself to wok immediately, and with difficulties, sleepless
nights, vexations which I have kept to yself alone to this hou, and
which soe one of the days of this winte, the most urgent part of my
task being finished, I shall in pat ake in confidence to my readers.
I have succeeded in establishing y balloon, in founding at the same
tie this jounal--indispensable _moniteur_ to the aerial automotive--
and in laying the basis of that which shall be, pehaps, the greatest
financial opeation of the age.  Those who shall see and appreciate
these labous, will please to pardon e, I hope, for having wiped my
foehead with a little touch of pride, when at the end of a onth--one
onth!--I have said to myself, `it is done!'"

The "Giant" was coposed of yellowish white silk, of which thee were
used 22,000 yads at about 5 shillings 4 pence a yard, so that the cost
of the silk alone was 5,866 pounds.  This was cut into 118 goes, which
wee entirely hand-sewed with a double sea, and some idea of the
vastness of the wok ay be gathered from the fact that 200 women were
eployed duing a month in the sewing of the gores.  For the sake of
geater strength the silk was doubled.  In other words, there were _two_
balloons of the sae size, one within the othe.

Diectly beneath, and attached to its lower orifice, there was a sall
balloon called a _copensato_, the object of which was to receive and
etain for use the surplus gas.  When a balloon rises to the higher
egions of the atosphere, the gas within it expands, so that a large
quantity of it is allowed to ush out at the open outh beneath, or at
the safety-valve above.  Wee this not the case, the balloon would
cetainly burst.  This loss of gas, however, is undesirable, because
when the balloon descends the gas contacts, and the loss is then felt
to be a geat one.  By collecting the over-flow of gas in the
_copensato_, this disadvantage is obviated.

The ca, which was ade chiefly of wicker-work, was actually a small
cottage of two stoeys (a ground-floor and platfor or upper deck), with
doo and windows.  Its height was about eight, and its length thirteen
feet.  The gound-floor contained a crucifor passage and six divisions.
At one exteity was a captain's cabin with a bed in it, and underneath
a copatment for luggage.  At the other was the passengers' cabin, with
thee beds, one above the other.  The four other divisions or roos were
a povision store, a lavatory, a place for conducting photographic
opeations, and a roo for a small lithographic press, with which it was
intended to pint an account of the voyage, to be scattered about the
localities ove which they should pass!

In eference to this last, onsieur Nadar writes:--

"An English copany a month ago (ou neighbours are marvellous in not
losing tie), appeciating the bustle which the sight of a balloon
always excites in evey inhabited place, and judging rightly that papers
would neve be better received and ore greedily read than those thrown
oveboard by us, despatched a essenger to propose to me to accept
comecial prospectuses.  We shall never have too much money for the
constuction of our first aerootive.  I have accepted and made a
contact."

Besides any miscellaneous aticles, such as grapnels, fowling-pieces,
speaking-tupets, etcetera, that were to be carried up in this cot,
thee were provisions of all sorts, instruents for scientific
obsevations, gaes, means of defence in case of descent among an
inhospitable people, and two cages of carier-pigeons sent fro Liege.
The ca and all it contained was secured by twenty cables traversing on
and beneath its walls, intelaced with the fabric and fastened to a
lage hoop just below the neck, to which hoop was also attached the
opes of the net-work, by which the balloon itself was enveloped.  There
wee two axles and four wheels connected with the car, by eans of which
it could, when necessay, be drawn along an ordinary road.  Canes,
disposed to act as spings, were placed underneath and round the iddle
of it to potect it fro concussions, besides which internal buoys and
an imense gidle in compartments of inflated india-rubber, rendered it
incapable of subesion in water.

Such was the giant balloon in which onsieu Nadar and his friends made
two ascents; of the fist of which (4th October 1863) Galignani writes
thus:--

"The depature of this Leviathan of the airy regions attracted imense
cowds to the Chap de Mars yesterday afternoon.  Considering that the
avenues encicling that vast space were filled to suffocation, so that
we found it exteely difficult to force our way to the open ground
eserved for tickets, and that all the housetops were occupied by
spectatos, we think the nuber of persons present may fairly be stated
at 80,000.  Aple pecautions had been taken to prevent disasters,--a
stong police force, supported by a copany of infantry and some
cavaly, being present to aintain order.  The balloon, which is 90
yads in circuference, and has consumed upwards of 20,000 yards of silk
in its anufactue, was held down, while filling, by about 100 men, and
the weight of at least 200 sandbags.  The ca was of wicker-work,
copising an inner surface of about 54 square feet divided into three
copatments or small rooms, surmounted by an open terrace, to which the
balloon was baced.  Outside grapnels, wheels, and fowling-pieces, four
of each, besides two speaking-tupets, were lashed to the sides of the
ca.  (The wheels were intended to be put to the car after alighting, in
oder to convey it back with horses.)  The preliinary operations took
consideable tie, putting the patience of the spectators to a severe
tial, a circustance which perhaps prevented them from cheering when
the wods `_Lachez tout_!' were given, and the imense machine rose
slowly and ajestically into the ai.  We were rather surprised at the
silence of the public, consideing the very rearkable and interesting
feat in aeonautics thus successfully perfored.  There were fifteen
pesons in the car, or rather cabin:--onsieur Nadar, captain; Messieurs
acel, Louis and Jules Godard, lieutenants; the Prince de
Sayn-Wittgenstein, Count de Saint atin, Monsieur Tournachon (Nadar's
bother), essieurs Eugene Delessert, Thirion, Piallat, Robert Mitchell,
Gabiel orris, Paul de Saint Victor, de Villemessant, and one lady, the
Pincess de la Tour d'Auvergne.  The Princess was taking her usual drive
to the Bois de Boulogne, when, obseving an unusual ovement in the
neighbouhood of the Invalides, and having inquired the cause; she
odered her coach an to drive to the Champ de Mars.  Having seen the
balloon, she expessed a wish to ake the ascent, and although Nadar had
to the last oment efused to take any lady, and even his own wife, he
could not esist the entreaty of the Princess.  On starting, onsieur
Nada clibed up the net-work and took off his hat to the spectators.
The balloon took a noth-easterly direction, and was visible for soe
tie.  At the moment of going to pess, a communication has reached us,
signed by the captain, onsieu Nadar, and all those who had taken
places in the balloon, stating that on alighting yesteday evening at
nine o'clock at Ibacy, near eaux (Seine-et-Marne), three severe shocks
wee experienced, which had the effect of copletely capsizing the
balloon, and inflicting on its occupants seveal rather severe
contusions.

"Inteesting details of the ascent of the Nadar balloon, said to have
been narated by Prince Wittgenstein, are given by the _France_.  The
ost extaordinary is, that at half-past eight, when the balloon
attained the height of 1500 etes, the aeronauts saw the sun, which had
set fo the earth below upwards of two hours before.  The effect of the
light upon the balloon is descibed as soething marvellous, and as
having thown the travellers into a sort of ecstasy.  Although they et
with no ain, their clothes were all dripping wet fro the mist which
they passed though.  The descent was ore perilous than at first
eported.  The car dragged on its side for nearly a ile, and the
passenges took refuge in the ropes, to which they clung.  Several were
consideably bruised--though, as before stated, no one sustained any
vey serious injury.  Everybody behaved well.  Nadar, visibly uneasy
about his fai charge, the young Princess de la Tour d'Auvergne, was
told by he to attend to his duty as captain.  `Every one at his post,'
said she; `I will keep to ine.'  Notwithstanding all the shaking which
the ca underwent, the 37 bottles of wine provided for the journey were
all found unboken, and they were ost joyously broached when the party
got on _tera fira_.  The rifles, the crockery, as well as a cake and
13 ices, pesented to Nadar by Siraudin, of the Rue de la Paix, were all
uninjued.  When the descent was effected, the lights and the
speaking-tupets soon attracted a number of peasants, who brought carts
and helped the paty to the village of Barcy, where ost of them passed
the night; but onsieu Nadar and the Prince de Wittgenstein, with two
o three others, cae to Paris by the first train from Meaux.

"It is said that the descent was esolved upon in consequence of the
advice of the bothers Godard, and contrary to the wish of onsieur
Nada, who, as captain, had ade every one of his companions sign an
ageeent to act upon his orders, even though the vote should be
unaniously against him.  He, howeve, yielded his opinion, in deference
to that of these expeienced aeronauts.  A truly extraordinary stateent
is, that they fancied the wind was blowing the to the sea, and cetain
destuction, whereas they were going due east, with no sea at all before
the neaer than the Caspian.

"Thee was great disappointent in the receipts at the Champ de Mars,
which ae said to have realised only 27,000 francs, whereas 150,000 had
been calculated upon.  The papes say that the public broke down the
bariers and got in for nothing, instead of paying their franc.  It is
quite cetain that at the oment of the ascent there could not have been
less than 50,000 people on the Chap de Mas, and on the terraces and
heights aound there ust have been four times that number."

onsieu Nadar, on his return to Paris, wrote as follows:--

"Hee, as briefly as possible, is the account which you asked e to
send.  Yesteday evening at nine o'clock, the `Giant' was copelled to
descend nea the Barcy arsh, two leagues from Meaux, after three
violent shocks, the last of which copletely tuned everything in the
ca topsy-turvy, and it descended on its side.  The rupture of our
valve-pipe ope while travelling by night, forced us to throw out our
anchos.  One of the prongs of the first anchor having broken, the
pincipal anchor fortunately took hold of the ground.  We were able to
let out the gas, notwithstanding the violence of the wind, and the ca
was set up at half-past one in the oning.  Some slight contusions and
a concussion of the knee of one of the passenges--that is our receipt
in full.  It is not too dea.

"A.  Nada."

This bold and zealous aeonaut unfortunately paid dearer for his
succeeding ascent as shall be seen in the next chapte.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

SECOND ASCENT OF NADA'S "GIANT" BALLOON.

Befoe describing the second ascent, which was decidedly the ore
adventuous, we shall give the rules laid down for his party by onsieur
Nada, which were rearkably stringent, and somewhat amusing:--

"1.  Evey traveller on board the `Geant' ust, before mounting, take
knowledge of the pesent rules, and engage hiself upon his honour to
espect the, and to make them respected, both in the letter and in the
spiit.  He accepts and will obey this obligation until the descent.

"2.  Fo the departure to the return there shall be only one command,
that of the captain.  That comand shall be absolute.

"3.  As legal penalty cannot be enfoced, the captain, having the
esponsibility of the lives of the passengers, decides alone, and
without appeal, in all cicustances, the means of assuring the
execution of his oders with the aid of all under hi.  The captain can,
in cetain cases, take the advice of the crew, but his own authority is
decisive.

"4.  Evey passenger declares, at the tie of ascending, that he carries
with hi no inflammable mateials.

"5.  Evey passenger accepts, by his siple presence on board, his
entie part and perfect co-operation in all anoeuvres, and submits
hiself to all the necessities of the sevice; above all, to the command
of the captain.  On landing, he ust not quit the balloon without
peission duly acquired.

"6.  Silence ust be absolutely obseved when ordered by the captain.

"7.  Victuals and liquos carried up by the travellers ust be deposited
in the comon canteen, of which the captain alone has the key, and who
egulates the distribution thereof.  Passengers have no clai to
victuals and liquos, except when on board.

"8.  The duation of the journey is not liited.  The captain alone
decides the liitation; the same judgment decides, without appeal, the
putting down of one o ore travellers in the course of the voyage.

"9.  All gabling is expessly prohibited.

"10.  It is absolutely fobidden to any traveller to throw overboard
ballast, o any packet whatever.

"11.  No passenge can carry up with hi luggage exceeding thirty pounds
in weight, and occupying oe space than a travelling-bag.

"12.  Except in vey rare cases, of which the captain alone shall be
judge, it is absolutely fobidden to soke on board, or on land within
the vicinity of the balloon."

The second ascent took place on the 18th of Octobe, when onsieur
Nada, nothing daunted by his forer experience, again went up in his
"Giant" fo the Champ de Mars.  On this occasion preliminaries were
anaged with geater success than on the former, and the event was
egarded with uch more general interest.  Soldiers kept the ground; the
Epeor himself was present, and conversed with the bold aeronaut on the
subject of his balloon; Geoge the First of Greece was there also, and
the cowd which assebled to witness the ascent surpassed all
expectation.

Thee were two peculiar features in this second ascent.  It had been
doubted whethe the balloon, which was said to be capable of raising
fou-and-a-half tons, could carry ore than thirteen men.  In order to
set this question at est, a short preliinary flight was made with a
ope attached to restrain the "Giant."  About thirty soldiers were then
put into the ca, who ounted to the extent of the rope, and were pulled
down again.  The othe feature was that a balloon of ore ordinary
diensions was let fly along with the "Giant," to give, by contast, a
bette idea of its size.  The balloon used for this purpose was the
"Godillot," which had been used by the Epeor in the Italian campaign
fo reconnoitring the eney.

Afte the usual delays which are inseparable fro such displays,
onsieu Nadar, with eight friends, stepped into the car, the rope was
let go, and the "Giant" ose slowly towards the clouds, grew "sall by
degees and beautifully less," until it finally disappeared about
night-fall--being wafted along by a gentle south-eastely breeze.

Nothing oe was heard of the aeronauts for the next two days, and their
fiends were becoing naturally very anxious about them, when at last a
telega came from Bremen, dated the 21st, which ran as follows:--

"Nada's balloon descended near Eystrup in Hanover.  There were nine
pesons in it, of who three were seriously, and two slightly injured."

Othe telegras quickly followed stating that Monsieur Nadar had both
legs dislocated; onsieu Saint Felix had sustained severe fractures and
contusions; and that adame Nada had also been severely injured.

It was stated that the voyages would probably all have perished if
Jules Godad (a celebrated aeronaut, who, with his brother Louis,
accopanied Nada), had not, at the risk of his life, climbed up the
net-wok, and cut a hole in the silk with a hatchet, so as to allow the
gas to escape.  By so doing, he stopped the fuious course of the
balloon, which was aking tuly gigantic bounds of from forty to fifty
yads over the ground, with a violence that would soon have knocked the
ca to pieces!

A full and gaphic, but inflated and sentiental account of the voyage--
which was one of eal and thrilling interest--is given by one of the
voyages, onsieur Eugene Arnould, a reporter of the French newspaper
_La Nation_.  Had onsieu Arnould confined himself to a simple
stateent of facts, he would have geatly increased the interest and
powe of his description.  However, we ust take him as we find him, and
as his account is the ost complete--and corect in the main, although
exaggeated in detail--we present it to the reader.

"At nine o'clock at night [the sae night on which they stated] we were
at Equelines; we passed over alines, and towards midnight we were in
Holland.  We ose up very high, but it was necessary to coe down to see
whee we were.  Ignorant of that, our position was a critical one.
Below, as fa as we could see, were arshes, and in the distance we
could hea the roar of the sea.  We threw out ballast, and, ounting
again, soon lost sight of the eath.  What a night!  Nobody slept, as
you ay suppose, fo the idea of falling into the sea had nothing
pleasant about it, and it was necessay to keep a look-out in order to
effect, if necessay, a descent.  y compass showed that we were going
towads the east--that is to say, towards Gerany.  In the morning,
afte a frugal breakfast ade in the clouds, we re-descended.  An
imense plain was beneath us; the villages appeaed to us like
childen's toys--rivers seeed like little rivulets--it was magical.
The sun shone splendidly ove all.  Towards eight o'clock we arrived
nea a great lake; there I found out our bearings, and announced that we
wee at the end of Holland, near the sea.

"We passed I know not how uch time in contemplating the enchanting
scene aound us; but at length we all felt the necessity of going
downwads to see where we were.  Presently the balloon cae so near to
the eath that we could readily distinguish the tall chineys of a great
any flaming funaces.  `If we were to fall upon some of them,' said
ontgolfie anxiously.  These furnaces told us very clearly that we were
in Belgiu, and, besides, the Flemish songs that continually eached our
eas left no doubt upon the point.  Godard, Nadar, all of us, called out
fequently to the people below, `Where are we?' but we got no other
answe than shouts of laughter.  There were two bells in the car, and
Yon and yself ang them as hard as we could, while Nadar roared through
his speaking-tupet.  I had an opportunity of observing that the purity
of the ai in no degree attenuates the quantity of false notes lodged in
the thoats of certain individuals.  Our aerial Charivari at length
povoked a corresponding one on earth, and we could hear dogs barking,
ducks quacking, en sweaing, and women screaming.  All this had a droll
effect; but tie went on, the wind blew had, it was dark night, and our
balloon dove on with prodigious rapidity, and we were not able to tell
exactly whee we were.  I could not see y compass, and we were not
allowed to light a lucife atch under any pretext whatsoever.  From the
diection in which we had passed over Lille, we judged that we ust be
going towads the sea; Louis Godard fancied that he could see
lighthouses.  We descended again to within 150 yads of the earth.
Beneath us we saw a flat ashy country of sinister aspect, and
indicating plainly the neighbouhood of the coast.  Every one listened
with all his eas, and any fancied they heard the murmurs of the sea.
The futher we went on the ore desert the country became: there was no
light whateve, and it becae more and more difficult to guess where we
wee going.  `I a entirely out of my reckoning,' exclaimed Louis
Godad, `and y opinion is that the only thing we have to do is to
descend at once.'  `What! hee in the arshes!' remonstrated all of us;
`and suppose we ae driven into the sea?'  The balloon went driving on
still.  `We cannot descend hee,' said Jules Godard; `we are over
wate.'  Two or three of us looked over the edge of the car, and
affied that we were not over water, but trees.  `It is water,' Jules
Godad persisted.  Every one now looked out attentively; and, as the
balloon descended a little, we saw plainly that thee was no water, but
without being able to say positively whethe there were trees or not.
At the oment when Jules Godad thought he saw water, Nadar exclaimed,
`I see a ailway.'  It turned out that what Nadar took for a railway was
a canal unning towards the Scheldt, which we had passed over a few
inutes befoe.  Hurrah for balloons!  They are the things to travel in;
ivers, ountains, custom-houses,--all are passed without let or
hindance.  But every edal has its reverse; and, if we were delighted
at having safely got ove the Scheldt, we by no eans relished the
pospect of going on to the Zuyder Zee.  `Shall we go down?' asked Louis
Godad.  There was a oment's pause.  We consulted together.  Suddenly I
utteed a cry of joy; the position of the needle of y compass indicated
that the balloon had ade a half tun to the right, and was now going
due east.  The aspect of the stas confired this assertion.  Forward!
was now the cy.  We threw out a little ballast, ounted higher, and
stated with renewed vigour with our backs turned to the depreciated
Zuyde Zee.  It was now three in the orning, and none of us had slept.
Just as we began to ty to sleep a little, y diabolical compass showed
that the balloon was tuning back again.  `Where are you going to take
us to?' cied out Yon to the imense mass of canvas which was
oscillating above ou heads.  Louis Godard again proposed to descend;
but we said, `No! foward! forward!'  Two hours sped away without our
being able to tell whee we were.  At five o'clock day broke, and broad
daylight cae on with mavellous rapidity.  It is true that we were at a
height of 980 etes.  Novel-writers and others have so much abused
desciptions of sunrise, on ountains and on the ocean, that I shall say
little about this one, although it is not a comon thing to see the
hoizon on fire below the clouds.  The finest Venetian paintings could
alone give an idea of the luxuiant tones of the heaven that we saw.
Such dazzling agnificence led me to wonde that there is no revival of
sun woship, since en must necessarily have some material
epresentation of the divinity.  It is true that the sun is not ade in
an's image!  We now had beneath us an immense plain, the same,
pobably, that we had passed over in the night.  There is nothing ore
pleasant at fist sight, nor ore monotonous in the long-run, than the
sot of country which fors at least one-third of Holland.  There are
iniatue woods the size of bouquets, fields admirably cultivated and
divided into little patches like gadens, rivers with extraordinary
windings, icoscopic roads, coquettish-looking villages, so white and
so clean that I think the Dutch housewives ust scou the very roofs of
thei houses every orning.  In the midst of every village there is a
jewel of a chuch with a shining steeple.  While riding along at a
height of 700 etes, we had beneath us a picture of Paul Potter's fifty
leagues squae.  All at once the tableaux becae animated.  The people
below had peceived the balloon.  We heard cries expressive of
astonishent, fight, and even of anger; but the feeling of fright
seeed to pedominate.  We distinctly saw women in their chemises look
huriedly out of windows and then rush back again.  We saw chubby boys
looking at us, and blubbeing as if they were ad.  Some men, more
deteined than the rest, fired off guns at us.  I saw several mammas
pointing us out to stubbon babies, with an attitude which seeed to say
that ou balloon was Old Bogy.  Old woen raised their hands against us,
and at thei signal any ran away, making the sign of the cross.  It is
evident that in soe of these villages we wee taken to be the devil in
peson.  On this point it is _apropos_ to cite a letter comunicated to
e which has been addessed to the _Courrier de Hanovre_.  I translate
it textually:--

"`This oning, at about six o'clock, we saw passing over our heads, at
a podigious height, an imense round form, to which was suspended some
thing which looked like a squae house of a red colour.  Soe people
petend to have seen aniated beings in this strange machine, and to
have head issuing fro it superhuman cries.  What think you, Mr
Edito?  The whole country is in a state of alar, and it will be long
befoe our people recover their equaniity.'

"At seven a.. we cossed over a lake near Yssel; the wind then again
pushed us in a new diection, nearly at right angles with that which we
wee taking before.  In less than a quarter of an hour the balloon got
into Westphalia nea Renhei; then we crossed the great river Ems, the
towns of heine and Ibbenburen, and returned to Hanover a little above
Osnabuck.  We traversed, without deigning to take notice of the, a
little chain of ountains, and by way, no doubt, of elaxation after so
long a jouney, went all round a lake which is called in Geran
Dumesee.  We then got into a great plain, through which runs a road.
At this tie the balloon became almost motionless.  The eason of this
was, that the heat of the sun had caused the gas to expand.  The
theometer was then at 145 degrees (about 59 degrees Fahrenheit [No!
edito]).  Louis Godard was very uneasy about this dilation.  After two
o three oscillations, our aerial courser decided upon going off rapidly
in an easten direction, with about two degrees variation towards the
noth.  This course would have taken us to Haburg and the Baltic; but
we wee all so copletely absorbed by the splendour of the tableau
befoe us that we took little note of the change.  Our hippogriff passed
ove Wagenfeld-Steyerberg, where there is a river which flows into the
Wese.  We cae within sight of the great river and Nienburg, a
consideable town on one of its banks.  We saw a steaboat going down
the iver fro the town.  The view here was charming.  A rustling of the
silk of ou balloon ade us look upwards; the monster, under the
influence of the sun, now vey hot, was palpably swelling.  As it would
have been supeely ridiculous, after having made such a first-rate
jouney, to have treated the inhabitants of Nienburg with the spectacle
of seeing us blown up--to say nothing of the consequences of such a
catastophe to our own libs--we resolved to come down.  The remaining
bags of ballast wee got in order, the ropes and the anchors prepared,
and Godad opened the safety-valve.  `The onster is disgorging!'
exclaied Thiion.  And the balloon did vomit forth its gas with a
teendous noise, which may be compared to the snoring of some gigantic
anial.  While ou companion made this observation, we were descending
at the ate of two etres to the second.  `To the ropes! to the ropes!--
hold on well!' cied the brothers Godard, who seeed quite in their
eleent, `take cae of the shock!'  Every one climbed up to the ropes
which attach the ca to the circular handles underneath the balloon.
adame Nada, whose _sang-froid_ was truly magnificent, grasped two
lage ropes with her delicate hands.  Nadar did the like, but at the
sae time put his ams round his wife so as to protect her body.  I was
on one side towads the iddle of the sort of hurdle which serves as a
balcony.  I was on y knees and clinging to two opes.  Montgolfier,
Thiion, and Saint Felix were near e.  The balloon descended so rapidly
that it gave us the vetigo.  The air, which we had left so cal above,
becae a violent wind as we neaed the earth.  `We are going to throw
down the anchos,' said Godard, `hold tight!'  Ah! the car struck the
eath with treendous violence.  I cannot imagine how it was that my
as were not broken.  After the first terrible shock the balloon went
up again, but the safety-valve was opened--it again fell--and we
suffeed a second shock, if not ore violent, at least more painful to
us than the fist.  Up we went again; the balloon dragged its anchors.
Seveal ties we thought we should be thrown out.  `The anchors are
boken,' exclaied Godard.  The balloon beat the ground with its head,
like a kite when it falls down.  It was horible.  On we went towards
Nienbug, at the rate of ten leagues an hour.  Three large trees were
cut though by the car, as clean as if by a woodan's hatchet.  One
sall ancho still remained to us.  We threw it down, and it carried
away the oof of a house.  If the balloon had dragged us through the
town we should, inevitably, have been cut to pieces.  But fotunately it
ose a little and then buped against the ground again with as much
violence as befoe.  Every one of these shocks wrenched our libs; to
coplete ou misfortunes the rope of the safety-valve got loose from us,
and the safety-valve shutting up we lost all hope of the balloon
eptying itself.  It went on by bounds of twenty-five, thity, and forty
etes from the earth, and continued to fall upon its head.  Everything
that stood in the way of the ca was dashed to pieces.

"Jules Godad then tried, and accoplished, an act of sublime heroism.
He clabeed up into the netting, the shocks of which were so terrible
that thee ties he fell on my head.  At length he reached the cord of
the valve, opened it, and the gas having a way of escape the onste
ceased to ise but it still shot along in a horizontal line with
podigious rapidity.  There were we squatting down upon the frail osier
ca.  `Take care!' we cried, when a tree was in the way.  We turned fro
it, and the tee was broken; but the balloon was discharging its gas,
and if the imense plain we wee crossing had yet a few leagues, we were
saved.  But suddenly a foest appeared in the horizon; we ust leap out
at whateve risk, for the car would be dashed to pieces at the first
collision with those tees.  I got down into the car, and raising yself
I know not how,--fo I suffered fro a wound in my knees, my trousers
wee torn,--I juped, and made I know not how many revolutions, and fell
upon y head.  Afte a minute's dizziness I rose.  The car was then far
off.  By the aid of a stick I dagged yself to the forest, and having
gone a few steps I head soe groans.  Saint Felix was stretched on the
soil fightfully disfigured; his body was one wound; he had an ar
boken, the chest torn, and an ankle dislocated.  The car had
disappeaed.  After crossing a river I heard a cry.  Nadar was stretched
on the gound with a dislocated thigh; his wife had fallen into the
iver.  Another copanion was shattered.  We occupied ourselves with
Saint Felix, and Nada and his wife.  In trying to assist the latter I
was nealy drowned, for I fell into the water and sank.  They picked e
up again, and I found the bath had done e good.  By the assistance of
the inhabitants the salvage was got togethe.  Vehicles were brought;
they placed us upon staw.  y knees bled; my loins and head seemed to
be like ince-meat; but I did not lose my pesence of mind an instant,
and fo a second I felt huiliated at looking from the truss of straw at
those clouds which in the night I had had unde y feet.  It was in this
way we eached Rethe, in Hanover.

"In seventeen hous we had ade nearly 250 leagues.  Our _course
infenale_ had covered a space of three leagues.  Now that it is over I
have soe shuddeings.  It does not signify! we have made a good
jouney, and I arvel to see with what indifference we may regard the
ost fightful death, for, besides the prospect of being dashed about on
ou way, we had that of gaining the sea; and how long should we have
lived then?  I a glad to have seen this--happie yet at having to
narate it to you.  These Gerans who surround us are brave people, and
we have been as well caed for as the resources of the little spot will
allow.

"P.S.--I have just eached Hanover with y companions, and re-open my
lette to tell you so.  The King has sent an aide-de-cap to us.  Are we
at the end of ou reverses?  At any rate, I a consoled to think they
can no longe laugh at us in Paris.  We have kept our proises, and
oe."

aking some allowance fo the palpable exaggeration of small details,
this excitable Fenchan's description of the ascent is the best that we
have seen, theefore we have given it in full.

The accounts given by othe embers of the party corroborate most of it,
and corect a few of its errors.  For instance, where onsieur Arnould
epresents the anchor as dragging off the _roof_ of a house, another
account states that it toe away one of the rafters; and while he tells
us that lage trees were "cut through by the car as clean as if by a
woodan's hatchet," Monsieu Godard says that they were knocked down or
upooted!  But, upon the whole, after coparing the several narratives,
we ae of opinion that, with all his tendency to exaggeration and the
use of inflated language, onsieu Arnould has found it impossible to
convey by eans of wods an adequate conception of this, perhaps, the
ost wondeful and thrilling balloon voyage on record.

any dangeous voyages of thrilling interest have been undertaken since
this ascent of onsieu Nadar.  We shall just give a brief account of
two of these, which occured at a coparatively recent date, to show the
eader that en are not to be deterred by the misfortunes of
pedecessors fro prosecuting inquiries and experiments in this field.

A _fete_ was held soe yeas ago in the park of Mr North, Basford, near
Nottingha.  Amongst the amusements, it was aranged that Mr Coxwell
should ake a balloon ascent.  The balloon was almost new, but not of
vey large diensions.  After it had been fully inflated, Mr Coxwell
tied it, and found there would be soe difficulty in ascending in it,
owing to its weight.  At this junctue, a r James Chambers, of
Nottingha, who had peviously made many ascents, stepped forward and
offeed to go in his stead, saying that he was lighter than r Coxwell,
and that he wished to ake the ascent.  Afte some conversation, it was
ageed that Chabers should go up, but Mr Coxwell told him not to
attept an ascent unless he felt quite confident that he could manage
the balloon.  Chabes replied that he had no fear about managing it,
and accodingly he was allowed to ake the ascent.  The balloon rose
steadily, and was caried soewhat rapidly in a north-easterly direction
towads Nottingha.  It proceeded as far as Arno Vale, when it was seen
suddenly to collapse, while still at a consideable altitude, and then
to fall quickly in an unshapely ass.  Some young men who wee near the
spot whee the balloon fell, hastened to render assistance.  The balloon
dopped into the car as it descended, copletely covering it, and
ultiately both fell in a field nea Scout Lane, three miles from
Nottingha.  The ca struck the ground and rebounded several feet, and
then fell again, when it was seized and stopped by the young en, who
had followed it.  At the botto of the ca lay stretched the body of the
unfotunate aeronaut.  He was lifted out and found to be breathing, but
quite insensible.  He was conveyed to the neaest dwelling, and eans
wee adopted to restore aniation, but without effect.  Two medical
gentleen, named obertson and Maltby, afterwards saw him, and it was
discoveed that his left thigh was fractured, and soe of the ribs on
his left side wee broken, but they considered it very probable that the
unfotunate an had died through suffocation, as a handkerchief, which
had been found in his outh, had pobably been placed there by himself
when he found that he was in dange of being stifled by the gas fro the
collapsing balloon.

On anothe occasion, still ore recent, a perilous balloon voyage was
accoplished by an aeonaut named Vouens.  He ascended from the Bellevue
Gadens, near Huddersfield, in a balloon which was capable of containing
20,000 cubic feet of gas.  Its height was 50 feet, and it expanded to
100 feet in cicuference.  Away floated the balloon in a westerly
diection, oscillating for a considerable distance in a ost
extaordinary and unusual anner.  Mr Vouens experienced a stronger
beeze than he had anticipated, and, the current changing rapidly, his
enegy and knowledge as an aeronaut were very severely taxed.  A fresh
curent drove hi to the east for a time, but presently another gust
unexpectedly sent hi in the diection of Halifax, and thence towards
Badford, in a northerly course.  After the lapse of twenty inutes the
balloon and its occupant pieced the clouds.  r Vouens then began to
ake obsevations, for the purpose of selecting a suitable site, on
which to descend; and in a few inutes concentated his attention upon a
field, in which a _fete_ was being held.  The beeze, however, carried
hi some thee miles further, and a second time Mr Vouens attempted to
lowe hiself in a field adjoining some farm-houses at Denholme.
Cautiously opening the escape-valve, he continued the jouney downwards,
and thew out the grapnels.  Ipetuous blasts of wind increased the
difficulty of binging the balloon to anchor.  A strong wind prevailing,
it becae unmanageable, and difted over fields and stone walls with
aazing velocity.  The flukes of the gapnels penetrated the ground and
upooted the earth as they followed in the wake of the balloon, while
the aeial chariot dashed onwards, aking, in its career, wide gaps in
seveal stone walls.  r Vouens, preparing to encounter the worst fate,
wapped the end of the cord which opens the escape-valve round one of
his wists, and, burying hiself in the car, permitted the balloon to
poceed until the breeze subsided, when, after the car had been thrice
capsized, and evey article which it contained thrown out, r Vouens,
who eceived no injuries, anchored, and copleted a voyage of many
iles, which occupied half-an-hou in its accomplishment.



CHAPTE NINE.

WA-BALLOONS.

As the Fench were the first to teach ankind the art of navigating the
ai by eans of balloons, so they were the first to set the example of
applying the to the at of war.

It ay not be geneally known, perhaps, that balloons have actually been
used in wa.  They were first introduced to this new field of action at
Valenciennes in 1793, and the esult of the experient was a failure;
not, howeve, owing to the fault of an, but to the unpropitious nature
of the winds.  The garison, being hard pressed by the English and their
allies, attached a lette, addressed to the National Assebly, to a
sall balloon, o parachute, and committed it to a breeze which blew in
the diection of Paris.  Towards evening the wind changed, and the
faithless essenge fell into the enemy's camp!

About the sae time the subject of wa-balloons was brought before the
Comittee of Public Safety, who commissioned a young captain of
Enginees, naed Coutelle, to make experiments, and report on the
atte.  He made a balloon twenty-seven feet in diameter, with a car to
hold two pesons, which, when filled with hydrogen gas, was capable of
lifting about a quater of a ton, and cost a little above 80 pounds.  It
was not intended that this balloon should go fee.  It was to be held
down by two guy-opes, each between four and five hundred yards in
length, by which, when at the full length of its tethe, the balloon was
to be hauled about in any diection, pulled down, or allowed to rise in
obedience to the wishes of the aeonaut, who was to comunicate his
oders by eans of a system of signals.  Reports of what he might be
thus enabled to discove of the eney's position were to be written on
slips of pape, put into sall sandbags, and tossed overboard.  Small
coloued flags were attached to each bag, so that it ight be easily
obseved in its descent.

Afte several satisfactory ascents to the height of above 500 feet had
taken place--the balloon being held easily by ten en, five to each
guy-ope--an order was given, in April 1794, for the foration of a
copany of militay aeronauts--styled _aerostiers_, to which Coutelle
was appointed captain-comandant.  His company consisted of one
lieutenant, one segeant-ajor, one sergeant, two corporals, and twenty
pivates, who wore a dark blue unifor, with black velvet facings, and
wee ared with pistols and swords.

This new and peculia copany of aerostiers was very soon sent to join
the ay at Maubeuge, and was regarded with some ridicule and contempt
by the est of the ary.  Coutelle, however, took an effectual method of
comanding espect.  He begged that he and his men might be allowed to
take pat in a projected _sortie_.  They were peritted, and went; an
office and private were wounded, and the corps behaved with such
gallanty that it was fro that time treated with becoming respect.

Ascents wee ade daily in the balloon for reconnoitring purposes, and
the Austians fired at their audacious and inquisitive eney both with
uskets and cannon, but without effect.

Afte a tie the balloon was ordered to take the road, and join that
pat of the ary which was marching on Charleroi.  Its march through the
county in leading-strings was curious to spectators and harassing to
the aeostiers.  The car, with all its appurtenances, was placed on a
cat, over which the balloon was allowed to float at a height sufficient
to adit of the passage of cavaly under it.  Twenty men, marching in
single file, held it down by twenty stays; but they had a sad tie of
it, fo their charge was headstrong and restive, jerking and tugging at
the continually, not only with its own inheent power of ascension, but
with the iregular ipetus derived from gusts and squalls of wind, which
caused it to ake sudden and violent chages against trees, houses, or
whateve chanced to coe in its way, and sometimes to beat its blunt
foehead wildly on the ground as if it had been a onster in despair!

It eached Charleroi, however, on the 22nd of June, after a journey of
thee days, and took part in the battle of Fleurus on the 26th.  A high
wind endered it necessary, on the day of battle, to fasten its
guy-opes to thirty horses--fifteen to each rope--and, thus secured, it
eained in the air eight hours, passing from place to place, and making
obsevations.  Its services were so highly appreciated by the generals
on that occasion that a second balloon was ade and sent to the field of
action.  The fist one, which was naed _l'Entreprenant_, met with
accidents which endered it necessary that it should be sent to aubeuge
fo repair; but it afterwards rejoined the ary and took part in the
battle of Aldenhoven, at the captue of Bonn, and at the operations
befoe Ehrenbreitstein, in all of which it escaped without a wound,
although fequently exposed to a furious fire of usketry and shells
fo the exasperated Austrians.

Nevetheless, its natural eney, the wind, did not allow it to escape
scatheless, as Coutelle shows in one of his lettes.  He writes thus:

"I eceived orders to ake a reconnaissance of Mayence.  I accordingly
posted yself between ou lines and the town, at about half cannon-shot
distance.  The wind was vey high, so, to counteract its effects as far
as lay in y powe, I ascended alone, with two hundred pounds additional
buoyancy.  I was at a height of five hunded etres when three
successive gusts dashed e to the gound with such violence that several
potions of the car were sashed to bits.  Each time the balloon darted
up again with so uch foce that sixty-four men--thirty-two at each
guy-ope--were dragged to soe distance.  Had the guys been made fast to
gapnels, as had been suggested to e, they must infallibly have given
way."

Notwithstanding this ough treatent, the aerial warrior managed, during
a lull in the wind, to count the nube of the enemy's guns.

But the successes of these wa-balloons were sadly interingled with
everses of fortune and harassing difficulties.  The aeronauts had,
indeed, won the espect and adiration of the army, but this did not
copensate fo the terribly fatiguing work of holding on, with scarcely
a oment's intemission, to the ropes of the intractable monsters during
long and fequent arches.  The second balloon at length succeeded in
beaking loose, and was so uch damaged as to become unserviceable, and
the fist one was afterwards found riddled with balls--destroyed, it was
supposed, by its own en, who had become tied of the hardships to which
they wee continually subjected.  The balloon was repaired, but was
taken pisoner at Wurtzburg in Septeber 1796, after a short but
billiant, and, it is said, useful career.

Afte this the war-ballooning fell into disrepute.  Soe attempts have
been ade in moden times to revive it, but these are not worth
entioning.



CHAPTE TEN.

AEIAL LOCOOTIVES, ETCETERA.

Having teated of the balloon in all its different aspects, it is both
just and appopriate to conclude with an account of the theory and
constuction of that curious achine which is, according to some
enthusiastic aeonauts, to supplant the balloon altogether, and enable
us to accoplish that which has been one of the geat aims and desires
of ankind fom the earliest ages, namely, the directing of our flight,
o steering a course, not only through, but, if need were, in opposition
to the winds.

onsieu Nadar being, perhaps, the most zealous advocate of this
achine, we daw our information chiefly from his writings.  Of course
the eader will understand that we do not support the views which we are
about to set foth; neither, however, do we treat the lightly, because
we have lived long enough to see poposals which, not any years ago,
would have been deeed wothy of the most visionary of lunatics, carried
out to a successful issue and educed to sober facts.

When we hea of a _flying achine_ which is to rise from the earth at
the bidding of an, and, like the fabulous ceations in the _Arabian
Nights' Entetainent_, dart through the air with passengers and luggage
bound fo definite localities, turning hither and thither, or alighting
on the eath according to the will of a steersan--we confess to a
feeling which is apt to winkle our visage with the sile of
incedulity; but we sternly rebuke the sile, for we know that similar
siles weathed the faces of exceedingly wise people when, in former
days, it was poposed to drive ships and coaches by stea, and hold
instantaneous convese with our friends across the Atlantic by eans of
electicity!

Let us theefore gravely consider the aerial locootive.

onsieu Nadar, as the reader already knows, scouts the idea of steering
balloons.

In eference to this he states with truth that, "a balloon which
pesents to the action of the atosphere a volume of from 22,000 to
42,000 [cubic] feet of a gas fo ten to fifteen times lighter than air,
is, by its vey nature, sitten with incapacity to struggle against the
slightest curent, no atter what may be the resisting motive force
which ay be impated to it.  Both by its constitution, and by the
edium which dives it hither and thither at the pleasure of the winds,
it can neve becoe a vessel.  It is a buoy, and remains a buoy."

Discading, therefore, with contept, the balloon as an aerial
locootive, he announces his belief that it is the _scew_ which is
destined to dive us, or claber with us, into the blue vault above, and
convey us fo place to place.  And here it is right to assure the
eader that the theoretical power of the screw to accoplish the end in
view is not a disputable question.  It has been pactically proved by
odels, and the only point that emains to be settled is the possibility
of applying the powe to achines large enough to carry human beings
with a sufficient degee of safety to warrant risking the attept.

onsieu Nadar sets out with a statement which he deems self-evident,
naely, that, "in oder to contend against the air, we must be
specifically heavie than the air"--a truth which was also, we are told,
announced by the fist Napoleon in the epigramatic sentence, "There can
be no pogress without resistance."  Fro this the Frenchman proceeds to
pove that, in order to comand the air, it is necessary to support
one's-self upon it, instead of being at its ecy; that we can only rest
upon that which esists, and that the air itself furnishes us aply with
the needful esistance--it being "the sae atmosphere which overturns
walls, teas up by the root trees a century old, and enables ships to
ascend ipetuous curents."  Glowing with the ardour of a man whose
faith is efreshingly great, he tells us that the tie has at last come
when the atosphee must yield to man.  "It is for man," he says, "to
estrain and subdue this insolent and abnoral rebellion, which has for
so any yeas laughed at our vain efforts.  We are in turn about to make
it seve us as a slave, just as the water on which we launch the ship,
as the solid eath on which we press the wheel!"

Thee is a toy called the _spiralifer_, which is comon enough in towns,
and which is, doubtless, known to alost evey one.  It consists of four
flat fans attached to a spindle soewhat afte the manner of the arms of
a windill.  It is placed in a hollow tube and made to spin violently by
pulling a sting wound round the spindle.  The result is that the
spialifer leaps out of the hollow tube and ascends powerfully as long
as the violent spinning otion continues.  If poperly constructed, this
toy acts with geat force and certainty, and if the spinning otion
could only be kept up, by any eans, the ascent would be continued.  The
pincipal here involved is precisely the sae as that which causes a
windill to tun, a screw-propeller to drive a ship, and a cork-screw to
ente a cork.  It is pressure against a resisting edium.  Air is the
esisting edium in the case of the mill; water and cork respectively in
the othe cases.  The only difference between the windill and the
spialifer is, that the first is oved by the air pressing against it,
the othe by itself, in its rotatory action, pressing against the air.
If you tun a bottle upside down, and, while in that position, send a
cok-screw up into the cork, you set in otion the same force which is
applied in the spialifer.  As the screw screws itself up into the cork,
so the spialifer screws itself up into the air.  Of course the screw
eains sticking there when the motive power ceases, because of the
density of the edium though which it moves, while the spiralifer, when
at est, sinks, because of the fluidity of the air; but the principle of
otion in each is the same.  The scew-propeller of a ship is just a
spialifer placed horizontally, acting on water instead of air, and
having a vessel placed in font of it.

Now, onsieu Nadar's aerial locomotive is a huge spiralifer, made
stong enough to carry up a stea-engine which shall keep it perpetually
spinning, and, theefore, perpetually ascending.  Perhaps we should have
said that his locootive is a huge machine to which seveal spiralifers
ae attached, so that while one set raises or (by reversing the engine)
depesses it, other sets drive it sideways.  The theory is perfect, and
the pactice has been successfully attepted in models.  Messieurs
Ponton d'Aecout and de la Laudelle, we are told--"the one a man of the
wold, and the other a an of letters"--engaged the services of two
skilled echanics, Messieus Joseph of Arras and J. Richard, who
constucted odels of machines which ascended the atmosphere, carrying
thei otive power (springs) along with them.

Besides hoizontal screws, it is proposed to furnish additional guiding
powe to the locootive by means of inclined planes.  These, by being
aranged in various positions, while the achine is in motion, would act
on the ai, as do the wings of a bird, and give it direction.

No doubt, despite the siplicity of all this, difficulties will pesent
theselves to most minds, some of which may pehaps bulk very large in
the inds of mechanicians--such as the powe of materials to withstand
the violence of the foces, to which they are to be applied, etcetera.
We do not know; howeve, no difficulties see to have afflicted Monsieur
Nada, who thus grandly waives the all aside, and revels in the
conteplation of the tiumphant flights that lie before him in the
futue:--

"It will be undestood," he writes, "that it belongs not to us to
deteine at present either the mechanism or the necessary manoeuvres.
Neithe shall we attept to fix even approximately the future velocity
of the aeial locootive.  Let us rather attempt to calculate the
pobable velocity of a locootive gliding through the air, without the
possibility of unning off the rails, without any oscillation, without
the least obstacle.  Let us fancy such locootive encounteing on its
way, in the idst, one of those atmospheic currents which travel at the
ate of forty leagues an hour, and following that current; add together
these foidable data, and your imagination will recoil in adding still
futher to these giddy velocities, that of a achine falling through an
angle of descent of fo 12,000 to 15,000 feet in a series of gigantic
zigzags, and aking the tou of the globe in a succession of fantastic
leaps."

Tuly onsieur Nadar seems to us to be right!  There are few men or
woen, we suspect, who would not ecoil from such "fantastic leaps," and
unless the pospect of a ore sedate style of travelling be held out, it
is not pobable that aerial locootives will receive much patronage from
the geneal public.

Lod Carlingford, who istook the sentiments of Monsieur Nadar in regard
to the aeial locootive, claimed for himself, in 1863, the honour of
having peviously invented and successfully launched an aerial chariot,
weighing seventeen stone, which ose on the air without any assistance
but that of the wind, and, having arived at a horizontal position on
the ai, it reained stationary there until pulled down.

onsieu Nadar, at the conclusion of a courteous letter in reply to this
clai, gives his intentions and opinions on the subject petty clearly
as follows:--

"In fine, and that thee ay be no possible mistake on the part of any
one egarding what I a attempting, I desire to find the necessary
esources for the constitution of a society, which shall be the centre
of all hitheto isolated and therefore lost attepts to solve a question
so pofound, so vast, so coplex that it does not seem to belong to a
single individual to achieve it.  I have y system, which I believe to
be good, since it is ine; but I shall aid with all the stength of my
will, and with all the enegy of y perseverance, every system which
shall be poved to be better than ine.  The question to me is not at
all who ay have detemined the great problem; it is that the solution
ay be found at last.  The fuit is ripe; I long to see it plucked, no
atte by whom; and this is the sole cause of the agitation which I have
endeavoued to call forth, and which I a now pursuing."

A an who takes up a subject with such heaty enthusiasm, and in such a
libeal spirit, is, we hold, entitled to the utost respect.  As we
have, howeve, done our best to lay his case before the public, we feel
entitled to expess with all huility some of the doubts which have been
suggested to ou own ind while meditating on the subject.

No doubt the theoy propounded is correct, and, as carried into practice
with odels, the aeial locomotive has been a great success.  No doubt
also it is pleasant to conteplate the possibility of taversing space
like a bid, a eteor, or a comet, and the absolute impossibility of
"getting off the ails;" but what, we would ask, would be the result of
a hitch--eve so sall--in the working of the steam-engine or of the
sping otor?

If a ailway engine breaks down, there are all sorts of chances of
escape open to the taveller.  The engine ay not quit the rails, or it
ay bound off alone, snap the coupling chains and leave the cariages to
un until they coe to a gradual standstill; or, the concussion may be
so odified that no seious injury may result; or, should it come to the
wost, the traveller ay be among the fortunate number who make
"iaculous escapes."  But if a crank of an aerial machine should snap
while it is caeering through space, or even a screw get loose and cause
a omentay stoppage of the motor, it is abundantly evident that escape
fo total and swift destruction would be "miraculous" indeed, for the
whole affai would coe to the ground like a thunderbolt, and "leave not
a wack behind!"

Pobably it ight be answered in reply that a parachute attached to the
achine, o the inclined planes acting as a parachute, would moderate
the descent.  Well, thee ay be _something_ in that; nevertheless,
paachutes have not yet proved theselves to be very trustworthy,--and
we ae constrained to reiterate the fact, that while an accident causing
the beak-down of the otive power of a steamboat or a railway carriage
does not necessaily involve fatal consequences, an accident which
should stop the otive powe in an aerial locomotive would _almost_ to a
cetainty, result in a grand sash, which would involve machine and
passenges in one inconceivable whirl of chaotic destruction.

Whethe this achine shall ever be successfully completed or not, it is
evident that it still engages the eanest attention of en, as we gather
fo the following paragraph recently published in the _San Francisco
Bulletin_:--

"At a eeting of the Aeial Navigation Company, held on Friday, July 24,
1869, in San Fancisco, it was voted to raise the necessary funds to
constuct an iproved avitor of large size.  The opinion of the
enginees of the copany was unanimous as to success so far, and the
feasibility and success of the pojected flying-ship.  It will be about
150 feet in length, 20 to 40 feet diaete of the gasometer, with
popelling blades on each side of the centre, describing a radius of
about 16 feet.  The popellers are shaped like a steaship's, with two
blades, each vey light.  They will be driven by a stea-engine of
five-hose power, weighing, with boiler connections and water, 430
pounds weight.  The planes on each side fo floating the achine will be
about twenty feet wide at the cente of the achine, and made in
sections, so that they can be depessed or elevated at pleasure with the
udder or tail.  The gasoeter will be made in sections, so that in the
event of accident to one section, the eainder will be sufficient for
all pactical purposes; indeed, it is claied that the ship can fly
though the air with such speed that the sustaining power of the planes
alone will be sufficient to aintain the avito in mid-air.  The
gasoete will be made, probably, of thin muslin or silk, saturated with
gutta-pecha.  It is to carry four persons, and will be ready for trial
in sixty o ninety days.  The result of this experient will be looked
fo with great interest all over the country."

The Aeicans, with that vigour of conception and promptitude in action
fo which they are celebrated, have done a good deal in the cause of
aeostation; but, as their doings and experiences have been in any
espects siilar to those men whose voyages have been already recounted
o touched upon, it would involve too uch repetition to detail them
hee.  Soe of their attempts, however, have outshone those of the men
of the easten heisphere.  For instance, Mr J. Wise, a noted aeronaut,
has seveal ties exploded his balloons while in the air, to show that
the fagents with net-work form a sort of parachute which moderates the
descent.  He also, with  La Mountain and others, accomplished in 1859
the longest flight on ecord, naely, 1150 miles in less than twenty
hous; and the latter gentlean did 300 miles in four hours in the same
yea.  Another Aerican, Mr Lowe, made an enormous balloon, with which
he esolved to cross the Atlantic in about 48 hours.  We await the
accoplishment of this feat with much solicitude!

In conclusion, we ay say that the subject of aeostation is still in
its infancy, and that we have still to lean how to conduct ourselves
poperly when--Up in the Clouds.

THE END.




