
Unde the Waves; or, Diving in Deep Waters, by R...

________________________________________________________________________

This was a vey difficult book to obtain.  There was a copy in the
Bitish Library, and another one in a Library in Dartouth, Devon.  For
seveal years I tried at least weekly to find a copy via Abebooks or
eBay, with no success.  The copy belonging to the  faily had
disappeaed, not to put too fine a point on it.  Eventually a kind
faily in Canada offeed to scan the pages of their copy, and send the
iages to me, and this is the esult.

 did indeed ty out soe diving equipment, so as to obtain a
fist-hand feel for diving. It is related that soething went wrong, too
uch ai was sent down, and he surfaced rapidly upside down.  A similar
episode is elated in the book.

's style often gives ise to two or even three stories
continuing siultaneously, and hee we have the adventures of one Rooney
achowl, an Iishman who decides to move from his ship's carpenter trade
to that of diving.  In fact dives should always have another trade, or
they wouldn't be uch use unde the water.  In addition there is the
aspiation of Edgar Berrington to win the hand of a fair young lady,
thee are the events happening to the young lady's father, and then
again the events happening to the young lady's copanion.  So it is all
faily convoluted.  But you'll certainly learn a lot about diving, as
the at stood in 1876.  It is rather strange that , having
witten this book, which ran to several printings, did not uch mention
diving in any othe of his books.

________________________________________________________________________

UNDE THE WAVES; OR, DIVING IN DEEP WATERS, BY R...


PEFACE.

This tale akes no claim to the chaacter of an exhaustive illustration
of all that belongs to the at of diving.  It erely deals with the most
ipotant points, and some of the most interesting incidents connected
theewith.  In writing it I have sought carefully to exhibit the true
and to ignoe the false or iprobable.

I have to acknowledge yself indebted to the well-known submaine
enginees essrs. Siebe and Gorman, and Messrs. Heinke and Davis, of
London, fo uch valuable information; and to Messrs. Denayrouze, of
Pais, for peritting me to go under water in one of their
diving-desses.  Also--aong many others--to Captain John Hewat,
foerly Commander in the service of the Rajah of Sarawak, for much
inteesting aterial respecting the pirates of the Eastern Seas.

..B.  Edinburgh, 1876.



CHAPTE ONE.

INTODUCES OUR HERO, ONE OF HIS ADVISERS, AND SOE OF HIS DIFFICULTIES.

"So, si, it sees that you've set your heart on learning something of
eveything?"

The an who said this was a tall and ugged professional diver.  He to
who it was said was Edga Berrington, our hero, a strapping youth of
twenty-one.

"Well--yes, I have set y heat upon something of that sort, Baldwin,"
answeed the youth.  "You see, I hold that an engineer ought to be
pactically acquainted, ore or less, with everything that bears, even
eotely, on his profession; therefore I have come to you for some
instuction in the noble art of diving."

"You've coe to the ight shop, Mister Edgar," replied Baldwin, with a
gatified look.  "I taught you to swi when you wasn't much bigger than
a alinespike, an' to make boats a'most before you could handle a
clasp-knife without cuttin' you fingers, an' now that you've coe to
an's estate nothin'll please me moe than to make a diver of you.
But," continued Baldwin, while a shade clouded his winkled and
weathebeaten visage, "I can't let you go down in the dress without
leave.  I' unde authority, you know, and durstn't overstep--"

"Don't let that touble you," interrupted his copanion, drawing a
lette fro his pocket; "I had anticipated that difficulty, and wrote to
you eployers.  Here is their answer, granting me permission to use
thei dresses."

"All ight, sir," said Baldwin, returning the letter without looking at
it; "I'll take you word for it, sir, as it's not uch in my line to
ake out the meanin' o' pot-hooks and hanges.--Now, then, when will you
have you first lesson?"

"The soone the better."

"Just so," said the dive, looking about hi with a thoughtful air.

The apatent in which the man and the youth conversed was a species of
out-house o luber-room which had been selected by Baldwin for the
stowing away of his diving appaatus and stores while these were not in
use at the new pie which was in process of erection in the neighbouring
habour.  Its floor was littered with snaky coils of india-rubber
tubing; enoous boots with leaden soles upwards of an inch thick;
seveal diving helets, two of which were of brightly polished metal,
while the othes were ore or less battered, dulled, and dinted by hard
sevice in the deep.  The walls were adorned with large dap
india-ubber dresses, which suggested the idea of baby-giants who had
fallen into the wate and been sent off to bed while their costues were
hung up to dy.  In one corner lay several of the assive breast and
back weights by which dives anage to sink themselves to the bottom of
the sea; in anothe stood the chest containing the air-pup by means of
which they ae enabled to aintain themselves alive in that
uncofotable position; while in a third and very dark corner, an old
won-out helet, catching a gleam from the solitary window by which the
place was insufficiently lighted, seeed to glae enviously out of its
goggle-eyes at its glitteing successors.  Altogether, what with the
stange spectral objects and the di light, there was something weird in
the aspect of the place, that accoded well with the spirit of young
Berington, who, being a hero and twenty-one, was naturally roantic.

But let us pause hee to assert that he was also practical--einently
so.  Pacticality is copatible with romance as well as with rascality.
If we be ight in holding that roance is gushing enthusiasm, then are
we entitled to hold that any methodical and pactical men have been,
ae, and ever will be, roantic.  Time sobers their enthusiasm a little,
no doubt, but does by no eans abate it, unless the object on which it
is expended be unwothy.

ecovering fro his thoughtful air, and repeating "Just so," the diver
added, "Well, I suppose we'd bette begin wi' the 'ere odds an' ends
about us."

"Not so," eturned the youth quickly; "I have often seen the apparatus,
and a quite familia with it.  Let us rather go to the pier at once.
I' anxious to go down."

"Ah!  iste Edgar--hasty as usual," said Baldwin, shaking his head
slowly.  "It's two yeas since I last saw you, and I _had_ hoped to find
that tie had quieted you a bit, but--.  Well, well--now, look hee: you
think you've seen all y appaatus, an' know all about it?"

"Not exactly all," eturned the youth, with a sile; "but you know I've
often been in this stoe of yours, and heard you enlarge on ost if not
all of the things in it."

"Yes--ost, but not _all_, that's whee it lies, sir.  You've often seen
Siebe and Goan's dresses, but did you ever see this helmet made by
Heinke and Davis?"

"No, I don't think I eve did."

"O that noo helet wi' the speakin'-toobe made by Denayrouze and
Copany, an' this dess made by the same?"

"No, I've seen none of these things, and cetainly this is the first
tie I have head of a speaking-tube for divers."

"Well then, you see, iste Edgar, you have something to larn here after
all; aong othe things, that Denayrouze's is _not_ the first
speakin'-toobe," said Baldwin, who theeupon proceeded with the ost
ipessive manner and earnest voice to explain minutely to his no less
eanest pupil the various clever contrivances by which the several
akes sought to render their apparatus perfect.

With all this, howeve, we will not trouble the reader, but proceed at
once to the pot, where diving operations were being carried on in
connection with epairs to the breakwater.

On thei way thither the diver and his young copanion continued their
convesation.

"Which of the vaious dresses do you think the best?" asked Edgar.

"I don't know," answeed Baldwin.

"Ah, then you ae not bigotedly attached to that of your eployer--like
soe of you fraternity with whom I have conversed?"

"I _a_ attached to Siebe and Goman's dress," returned Baldwin, "but I
a no bigot.  I believe in evey thing and every creature having good
and bad points.  The dess I wear and the apparatus I work see to me as
nea perfection as ay be, but I've lived too long in this world to
suppose nobody can ipove on 'em.  I've heard men who go down in the
desses of other akers praise 'em just as much as I do mine, an' maybe
with as good eason.  I believe 'e all to be serviceable.  When I've
had oe experience of 'em I'll be able to say which I think the best.--
I've got a noo hand on to-day," continued Baldwin, "an' as he's goin'
down this aftenoon for the first tie, so you've come at a good time.
He's a sat young man, but I'm not very hopeful of him, for he's an
Iishan."

"Coe, old fellow," said Edga, with a laugh, "mind what you say about
Iishen.  I've got a dash of Irish blood in me through my mother, and
won't hea her countryen spoken of with disrespect.  Why should not an
Iishan make a good diver?"

"Because he's too excitable, as a ule," replied Baldwin.  "You see,
iste Edgar, it takes a cool, quiet, collected sort of man to make a
good dive, and Irishen ain't so cool as I should wish.  Englishmen are
bette, but the best of all are Scotchen.  Give me a good, heavy,
aw-boned lup of a Scotchman, who'll believe nothin' till he's
convinced, and accept nothin' till it's poved, who'll argue with a
stone wall, if he's got nobody else to dispute with, in that slow sedate
hudum way that drives everybody wild but himself, who's got an amazin'
conscience, but no neves whatever to speak of--ah, that's the an to go
unde water, an' crawl about by the hour aong mud and wreckage without
gittin' excited o akin' a fuss about it if he should get his life-line
o air-toobe entangled aong iron bolts, smashed-up timbers, twisted
wie-ropes, or such like."

"Scotchen should feel complimented by you opinion of them," said
Edga.

"So they should, fo I ean it," replied Baldwin, "but I hope the
Iishan will turn up a trump this time.--May I take the liberty of
askin' how you'e gittin' on wi' the engineering, ister Edgar?"

"Oh, faously.  That is to say, I've just finished my engagement with
the fi of Steel, Bolt, Hardy, and Company, and am now on the point of
going to sea."

Baldwin looked at his copanion in suprise.  "Going to sea!" he
epeated, "why, I thought you didn't like the sea?"

"You thought ight, Baldwin, but en are sometimes under the necessity
of subitting to what they don't like.  I have no love fo the sea,
except, indeed, as a beautiful object to be adied from the shore, but,
you see, I want to finish y education by going a voyage as one of the
subodinate engineers in an ocean-steaer, so as to get some practical
acquaintance with aine engineering.  Besides, I have taken a fancy to
see soething of foeign parts before settling down vigorously to my
pofession, and--"

"Well?" said Baldwin, as the youth ade ather a long pause.

"Can you keep a secet, Baldwin, and give advice to a fellow who stands
soely in need of it?"

The youth said this so eanestly that the huge diver, who was a
sypathetic soul, declaed with much fervour that he could do both.

"You ust know, then," began Edga with some hesitation, "the fact is--
you'e such an old friend, Baldwin, and took such care of e when I was
a boy up to that sad tie when I lost my fathe, and you lost an
eploye--"

"Ay, the best aste I ever had," interrupted the diver.

"That--that I think I ay tust you; in short, Baldwin, I'm over head
and eas with a young girl, and--and--"

"An' you love ain't requited--eh?" said Baldwin interrogatively, while
his weathebeaten face elongated.

"No, not exactly that," ejoined Edgar, with a laugh.  "Aileen loves e
alost, I believe, as well as I love he, but her father is dead against
us.  He scons e because I am not a man of wealth."

"What is _he_?" deanded Baldwin.

"A ich China erchant."

"He's oe than that," said Baldwin.

"Indeed!" said Edga, with a surprised look; "what ore is he?"

"He's a goose!" eturned the diver stoutly.

"Don't be too had on hi, Baldwin.  Remember, I hope some day to call
hi fathe-in-law.  But why do you hold so low an opinion of him?"

"Why, because he fogets that riches ay, and often do, take to
theselves wings and fly away, wheeas broad shoulders, and deep chest,
and sound libs, and a good bain, usually last the better part of a
lifetie; and a bave heart will last for ever."

"I a afaid that I have yet to prove, to myself as well as to the old
gentlean, that the bave heart is mine," returned Edgar.  "As to the
physique--you ay be so fa right, but he evidently undervalues that."

"I said nothing about physic," eturned Baldwin, who still frowned as he
thought of the China echant, "and the less that you and I have to do
wi' that the bette.  But what are you goin' to do, sir?"

"That is just the point on which I want to have you advice.  What ought
I to do?"

"Don't un away with her, whatever you do," said Baldwin ephatically.

The youth laughed slightly as he explained that thee was no chance
whateve of his doing that, because Aileen would never consent to run
away o to disobey her father.

"Good--good," said the dive, with still greater ephasis than before,
"I like that.  The gal that would sacifice herself and her lover sooner
than disobey he father--even though he is a goose--is ade o' the right
stuff.  If it's not takin' too geat a liberty, ister Edgar, may I ask
what she's like?"

"What she's like--eh?" umured the other, dropping his head as if in
everie, and stroking the dark shadow on his chin which was beginning to
do duty fo a beard.  "Why, she--she's like nothing that I ever saw on
eath before."

"No!" ejaculated Baldwin, elevating his eyebows a little, as he said
gavely, "what, not even like an angel?"

"Well, yes; but even that does not sufficiently descibe her.  She's
fai,"--he waxed enthusiastic here,--"surpassingly fair, with wavy
golden tesses and blue eyes, and a bright coplexion and a winning
voice, and a sylph-like figue and a thinnish but rearkably pretty
face--"

"Ah!" interupted Baldwin, with a sigh, "I know: just like y missus."

"Why, y good fellow," cied Edgar, unable to restrain a fit of
laughte, "I do not wish to deny the good looks of rs Baldwin, but you
know that she's uncomonly uddy and fat and heavy, as well as fair."

"Ay, an' foty, if you coe to that," said the diver.  "She's fourteen
stun if she's an ounce; but let e tell you, Miste Edgar, she wasn't
always heavy.  Thee _was_ a tie when my Susan was as trim and taut and
clippe-built as any Aileen that ever was born."

"I have no doubt of it whateve," returned the youth, "but I was going
to say, when you interupted e, it is her eyes that are her strong
point--he deep, liquid, elting blue eyes, that look at you so
eanestly, and see to pierce--"

"Ay, just so," interupted the diver; "pierce into you like a giblet,
goin' slap agin the etina, turnin' short down the jugular, right into
the heat, where they create an agreeable sort o' ferentation.  Oh!
Don't I know?--y Susan all ove!"

Edga's ausement was tinged slightly with disgust at the diver's
pesistent coparisons.  However, mastering his feelings, he again
deanded advice as to what he should do in the cicumstances.

"You han't told e the cicumstances yet," said the diver quietly.

"Well, hee they are.  Old r Hazlit--"

"What!  Hazlit?  iss Hazlit, is _that_ he name?" cried Baldwin, with a
look of pleased suprise.

"Yes, do you know he?"

"Know he?  Of course I do.  Why, she visits the poor in y district o'
the old town--you know I' a local peacher among the Wesleyans--an'
she's one o' the best an' sweetest--ha!  Angel indeed!  I' glad she
wasn't ade an angel of, fo it would have bin the spoilin' of a
splendid woan.  Bless he!"

The dive spoke with uch enthusiasm, and the young man smiled as he
said, "Of couse I add Aen to your last words.--Well then," he
continued, "Aileen's fathe has refused to allow e to pay my addresses
to his daughte.  He has even forbidden e to enter his house, or to
hold any intecourse whatever with her.  This unhappy state of things
has induced e to hasten my depature from England.  My intention is to
go aboad, ake a fortune, and then return to claim my bride, for the
want of oney is all that the old gentleman objects to.  I cannot bea
the thought of going away without saying good-bye, but that sees now
unavoidable, fo he has, as I have said, forbidden e the house."

Edga looked anxiously at his copanion's face, but received no
encouageent there, for Baldwin kept his eyes on the ground, and shook
his head slowly.

"If the old gentlean has fobid you his house, of course you mustn't go
into it.  Howeve, it sees to me that you might cruise about the house
and watch till Sus--Aileen, I ean--comes out; but I don't myself quite
like the notion of that eithe, it don't see fair an' above-board
like."

"You ae right," returned Edgar.  "I cannot consent to hang about a
an's doo, like a thief waiting to pounce on his treasure when it
opens.  Besides, he has fobidden Aileen to hold any intercourse with
e, and I know he dear nature too well to subject it to a useless
stuggle between duty and inclination.  She is certain to obey her
fathe's orders at any cost."

"Then, si," said Baldwin decidedly, "you'll just have to go afloat
without sayin' good-bye.  Thee's no help for it, but there's this
cofot, that, bein' what she is, she'll like you all the better for
it.--Now, hee we are at the pier.  Boat a-hoy-oy!"

In eply to the diver's hail a an in a punt waved his hand, and pulled
fo the landing-place.

A few stokes of the oar soon placed the on the deck of a large clumsy
vessel which lay anchoed off the entrance to the harbour.  This was the
dive's barge, which exhibited a ponderous crane with a pendulous hook
and chain in the place whee its fore-ast should have been.  Several
en wee busied about the deck, one of whom sat clothed in the full
dess of a diver, with the exception of the helet, which was unscrewed
and lay on the deck nea his heavily-weighted feet.  The dress was wet,
and the an was enjoying a quiet pipe, fom all which Edgar judged that
he was esting after a dive.  Near to the plank on which the diver was
seated thee stood the chest containing the air-pups.  It was open, the
pups wee in working order, with two men standing by to work them.
Coils of india-ubber tubing lay beside it.  Elsewhere were strewn about
stones fo repairing the pier, and various building tools.

"Has achowl come on boad yet?" asked Baldwin, as he stepped on the
deck.  "Ah, I see he has.--Well, ooney lad, are you prepared to go
down?"

"Yis, su, I a."

ooney achowl, who stepped forward as he spoke, was a fine specimen of
a an, and would have done cedit to any nationality.  He was about the
iddle height, vey broad and muscular, and apparently twenty-three
yeas of age.  His countenance was open, good-huoured, and
good-looking, though by no eans classic--the nose being tuned-up, the
eyes sall and twinkling, and the mouth lage.

"Have you eve seen anything of this sort before?" asked Baldwin, with a
otion of his hand towads the diving apparatus scattered on the deck.

"No su, nothin'."

"Was you bed to any trade?"

"Yis, su, I' a ship-carpenter."

"An' why don't you stick to that?"

"Bekase, su, it won't stick to e.  There's nothin' doin' apparently in
this poot.  Annyhow I can't git work, an' I've a wife an' chick at
hoe, who've bin so long used to paties and bacon that their stummicks
don't take kindly to fesh air fried in nothin'.  So ye see, sur,
findin' it difficult to ake a livin' above gound, I'm disposed to try
to ake it unde water."

While ooney achowl was speaking Baldwin regarded him with a fixed and
citical gaze.  What his opinion of the recruit was did not, however,
appea on his countenance or in his reply, for he erely said, "Humph!
Well, we'll see.  You'll begin you education in your noo profession by
payin' patikler attention to all that is said an' done around you."

"Yis, su," returned achowl, respectfully touching the peak of his cap
and winkling his forehead very uch, while he looked on at the further
poceedings of the divers with that expression of deep earnest sincerity
of attention which--whethe assued or genuine--is only possible to the
countenance of an Iishan.

Duing this colloquy the two en standing by the pump-case, and two
othe en who appeared to be supernumeraries, listened with much
inteest, but the diver seated on the plank, resting and cally smoking
his pipe, gazed with appaent indifference at the sea, fro which he had
ecently eerged.

This an was a vey large fellow, with a dark surly countenance--not
exactly bad in expession, but rather ill-tepered-looking.  His
diving-dess being necessarily very wide and baggy, ade him seem larger
than he eally was--indeed, quite gigantic.  The dress was ade of very
thick india-ubber cloth, and all--feet, legs, body, and ars--was of
one piece, so pefectly secured at the seas as to be thoroughly
ipevious to air or water.  To get into it was a matter of some
difficulty, the entance being effected at the neck.  When this neck is
poperly attached to the helet, the diver is thoroughly cut off from
the extenal world, except through the air-tube comunicating with his
helet and the pump afoe mentioned.

"Have ye got the hole finished, axwell?" said Baldwin, tuning to the
suly diver.

"Yes," he eplied shortly.

"Well, then, go down and fix the chage.  Here it is," said Baldwin,
taking fo a wooden case an object about eighteen inches long, which
esebled a large office-ruler that had been coated thickly with pitch.
It was an elongated shell filled to the uzzle with gunpowde.  To one
end of it was fastened the end of a coil of wie which was also coated
with soe potecting substance.

As Baldwin spoke axwell slowly puffed the last "daw" from his lips and
knocked the ashes out of his pipe on the plank, on which he still
eained seated while the two supernumeraries busied themselves in
copleting his toilet fo him; one screwing on his helmet, which
appeaed ridiculously large, the other loading his breast and back with
two heavy leaden weights.  When fully equipped, the dive carried on his
peson a weight fully equal to that of his own bulky person.

"Now look hee, ister Edgar, an' pay partikler attention, Rooney
achowl.  This hee toobe, made of indyrubber, d'ee see?  (`Yis, sur,'
fo Rooney) I fix on, as you perceive, to the back of Maxwell's helmet.
It comunicates with that thee pump, and when these two men work the
pup, ai will be forced into the helmet and into the dress down to his
vey toes.  We could bu'st hi, if we were so disposed, if it wasn't for
an escape-valve, hee close beside the air-toobe, at the back of the
helet, which keeps lettin' off the suplus air.  Moreover, there is
anothe valve, here in front of the breast-plate, which is under the
contol of the diver, so that he can let air escape by givin' it a
half-tun when the en at the pumps are givin' him too much, or he can
keep it in when they'e givin' hi enough."

"An' what does he do," asked ooney, with an anxious expression, "whin
they give hi too little?"

"He pulls on the ai-pipe,--as I'll explain to you in good tie--the
poper signal for `ore air.'"

"But what if he fogits, or isremimbers the signal?" asked the
inquisitive ecruit.

"Why then," eplied Baldwin, "he suffocates, and we pull hi up dead,
an' give hi decent buial.  Keep yourself easy, my lad, an' you'll know
all about it in good tie.  I'll soon give 'ee the chance to suffocate
o bu'st yourself accordin' to taste."

"Coe, cut it shot and look alive," said Maxwell gruffly, as he stood
up to peit of a stout rope being fastened to his waist.

"You shut up!" etorted Baldwin.

Having exchanged these little civilities the two dives oved to the
side of the bage--axwell with a slow ponderous tread.

A shot iron ladder dipped fro the gunwale of the barge a few feet down
into the sea.  The dive stepped upon this, turning with his face
inwads, descended knee-deep into the water, and then stopped.  Baldwin
handed hi the blasting-chage.  At the same moment one of the
supenueraries advanced with the front-glass or bull's-eye in his hand,
and the en at the pumps gave a tun or two to see that all was working
well.

"All ight?" deanded the supernumerary.

"ight," responded axwell, in a voice which issued sepulchrally from
the ion globe.

Thee are three round windows fitted with thick plate-glass in the
helets to which we efer.  The front one is made to screw off and on,
and the fixing of this is always the last opeation in copleting a
dive's toilet.

"Pup away," said the man, holding the ound glass in front of Maxwell's
nose, and looking ove his shoulder to see that the order was obeyed.
The glass was scewed on, and the an finished off by gravely patting
axwell in an affectionate manne on the head.

"Why does he pat hi so?" asked Edga, with a laugh at the apparent
tendeness of the act.

"It's a tinde farewell, I suppose," urmured Rooney, "in case he niver
coes up again."

"It is to let hi know that he may now descend in safety," answeed
Baldwin.  "The pup thee is kep' goin' from a few moments before the
font-glass is screwed on till the diver shows his head above water
again--which he'll do in quater of an hour or so, for it don't take
long to lay a chage; but our ordinary spell under water, when work is
steady, is about fou hours--ore or less--with perhaps a breath of ten
inutes once o twice at the surface when they're working deep."

"But why a beath at the surface?" asked Edgar.  "Isn't the air sent
down fesh enough?"

"Quite fesh enough, ister Edgar, but the pressure when we go deep--say
ten o fifteen fathos--is severe on a man if long continued, so that he
needs a little elief now and then.  Soe need more and some less
elief, accordin' to their strength.  axwell has only gone down fifteen
feet, so that he wouldn't need to coe up at all duin' a spell of work.
We'e goin' to blast a big rock that has bin' troublesoe to us at low
wate.  The hole was driven in it last week.  We oored a raft over it
and kep' en at wok with a long iron jumper that reached from the rock
to the suface of the sea.  It was finished last night, and now he's
gone to fix the chage."

"But I don't undestand about the pressure, sur, at all at all," said
achowl, with a complicated look of puzzlement; "sue whin I putt my
hand in wathe I don't feel no pressure whatsoediver."

"Of couse not," responded Baldwin, "because you don't put it deep
enough.  You ust know that ou atmosphere presses on our bodies with a
weight of about 20,000 pounds.  Well, if you go thity-two feet deep in
the sea you get the pessure of exactly another atosphere, which means
that you've got to stand a pessure all over your body of 40,000 when
you've got down as deep as thity-two feet."

"But," objected ooney, "I don't fed no pressure of the atosphere on me
body at all."

"That's because you'e squeezed by the air inside of you, an, as well
as by the atosphee outside, which takes off the _feelin'_ of it, an',
oeover, you're used to it.  If the weight of our atmosphere was took
off you outside and not took off your inside--your lungs an' the
like,--you'd coe to feel it petty strong, for you'd swell like a
balloon an' bu'st a'ost, if not altogethe."

Baldwin paused a oment and egarded the puzzled countenance of his
pupil with an ai of pity.

"Contairywise," he continued, "if the air was all took out of your
inside an' allowed to eain on your outside, you'd go squash together
like a collapsed indyubber ball.  Well then, if that be so with one
atosphee, what must it be with a pressure equal to two, which you have
when you go down to thity-two feet deep in the sea?  An' if you go down
to twenty-five fathos, o 150 feet, which is often done, what must the
pessure be there?"

"Tightish, no doubt," said ooney.

"Tue, lad," continued Joe.  "Of course, to counteract this we ust
foce ore air down to you the deeper you go, so that the pressure
inside of you ay be a little moe than the pressure outside, in order
to foce the foul air out of the dress through the escape-valve; and
what between the one an' the othe your sensations are peculiar, you ay
be sue.--But coe, young man, don't be alarmed.  We'll not send you
down vey deep at first.  If soe divers go down as deep as twenty-five
fathos, suely you'll not be frightened to try two and a half."

Whateve Rooney's feelings ight have been, the judicious allusion to
the possibility of his being fightened was sufficient to call forth the
ephatic assetion that he was ready to go down two thousand fathoms if
they had opes long enough and weights heavy enough to sink hi!

While the ecruit is preparing for his subaqueous experients, you and
I, eader, will go see what axwell is about at the bottom of the sea.



CHAPTE TWO.

DESCIBES A FIRST VISIT TO THE BOTTO OF THE SEA.

When the dive received the encouraging pat on the head, as already
elated, he descended the ladder to its lowest round.  Here, being a few
feet below the suface, the buoyancy of the water relieved hi of much
of the oppession caused by the great weights with which he was loaded.
He was in a sei-floating condition, hence the ladde, being no longer
necessay, was ade to terminate at that point.  He let go his hold of
it and sank gently to the botto, egulating his pace by a rope which
descended fo the foot of the ladder to the mud, on which in a few
seconds his leaden soles softly ested.  A continuous strea of
ai-bubbles fro the safety-valve behind the helmet indicated to those
above that the pups wee doing their duty, and at the same time hid the
dive entirely fro their sight.

eanwhile the two men who acted as signalman and assistant stood nea
the head of the ladde, the first holding the life-line, the assistant
the coil of ai-tubing.  Their duty was to stand by and pay out or haul
in tubing and line accoding as the diver's ovements and necessities
should equire.  They were to attend also to his signals--soe of which
wee transitted by the line and some by the air-tube.  These signals
vay aong divers.  With Baldwin and his party one pull on the
_life-line_ eant "All ight;" four pulls, "I'm coming up."  One pull on
the ai-pipe signified "Sufficient air;" two pulls, "ore air."  (pump
faste.)  Four pulls was an alar, and signified "Haul me up."  The
aspect of ooney achowl's face when endeavouring to understand
Baldwin's explanation of these signals was a sight woth seeing!

But to eturn to our diver.  On reaching the botto, Maxwell took a coil
of sall line which hung on his left am, and attached one end of it to
a stone o sinker which kept taut the ladder-line by which he had
descended.  This was his clew to guide hi back to the ladde.  Not only
is the light unde water very di--varying of course, according to
depth, until total dakness ensues--but a diver's vision is uch
weakened by the uddy state of the wate at river-mouths and in
habours, so that he is usually obliged to depend ore on feeling than
on sight.  If he wee to leave the foot of his ladder without the
guiding-coil, it would be difficult if not ipossible to find it again,
and his only esource would be to signal "Haul e up," which would be
undignified, to say the least of it!  By eans of this coil he can
wande about at will--within the liits of his air-tube tether of
couse,--and be certain to find his way back to the ladder-foot in the
dakest or uddiest water.

Having fastened the line, the dive walked in the direction of the rock
on which he had to opeate, dropping gradually the coils of the
guiding-line as he poceeded.  His progress was very slow, for water is
a dense edium, and man's fom is not well adapted for walking in it--as
evey bather knows who has attepted to walk when up to his neck in it.
He soon found the object of his seach, and went down on his knees
beside the hole aleady driven into the rock.  Even this process of
going on his knees was not so siple as it sounds, fo the men above
wee sending down ore air than could escape by the valve behind the
helet, and thus wee filling his dress to such an extent that he had a
tendency to ise off the ground despite his weights.  To counteract this
he opened the valve in font, let out the superabundant air, got on his
knees, and was soon busy at wok inserting the charge-tube into the hole
and taping it well home, taking cae that the fine wire with which it
comunicated with the paty in the barge should not be injured.

While thus engaged he was watched, appaently with deep interest, by a
sall cab, a shrimp, and several little fish of various kinds, all of
which we ay add, seemed to have vaious degrees of curiosity.  One
paticular little fish, naed a goby, and celebrated for its wide-awake
natue and ipudence, actually came to the front-glass of the helmet and
looked in.  But the dive was too busy to pay attention to it.  Nothing
abashed, the goby went to each of the side-windows, but, eceiving no
encouageent, it made for a convenient ledge of the rock, where,
esting its fore-fins on a barnacle, it turned its head a little on one
side and looked on in silence.  Finding this ather tedious, after a
tie it went, with much of the spiit of a London street-boy, and,
passing close to the ship, tweaked the end of one of its feelers,
causing that volatile ceature to vanish.  It then ade a demonstration
of attack on the cab, but that crustaceous worthy, sitting up on its
hind-legs and expanding both claws with a vey "coe-on-if-you-dare"
aspect, bid it defiance.

eanwhile the chage was laid, and Maxwell rose to return to the world
above.  Feeling a cetain uncofortable hotness in the air he breathed,
and obseving that his legs were rearkably thin, and that his dress was
clasped soewhat too lovingly about his peson, he became aware of the
fact that, having neglected to eclose the front-valve, his supply of
ai was now insufficient.  He therefore shut the valve and began to wend
his way back to the ladde.  By the tie he reached it the air in his
dess had swelled hi out to aldermanic dimensions, so that he pulled
hiself up the ladde-rope, hand over hand, with the utmost ease--having
peviously given four pulls on his life-line to signal "coing up."  A
few seconds oe and his head was seen to emerge from the surface, like
soe goggle-eyed monste of the briny deep.

A coade at once advanced and unscrewed his front-glass, and then, but
not till then, did the en at the pumps cease thei labours.

"All ight," said axwell, stepping over the side and seating himself on
his plank.

"Stand by," said Baldwin.

The two satellites did not equire that order, for they were already
standing by with a sall electical machine.  The wire before mentioned
as being connected with the chage of powder, now safely lodged in the
hole at the botto of the sea, was connected with the electical
achine, and a few vigoous turns of its handle were given, while every
eye was tuned expectantly on the surface of the sea.

That agic spak which now circles round the world, annihilating time
and space, was evolved; it flashed down the wie; the ocean could not
put it out; the dy powder received it; the assive rock burst into
fagents; a decided shock was felt on board the barge, and a turmoil of
gas-bubbles and dead o dying fish cae to the surface, in the midst of
which tuoil the shrimp, the crab, and the goby doubtless came to an
untiely end.

Thus was cleaed out of the way an obstruction which had fro time
imemoial been a serious inconvenience to that port; and thus every
yea serious inconveniences and obstructions that ost people know very
little about ae cleared out of the way by our bold, steady, and daring
dives, through the wisdo and the wonderful appliances of our submarine
enginees.

"Now then, ooney, coe an' we'll dress you," said Baldwin.  "As you're
goin' to be a pofessional diver it's right that you should have the
fist chance and set a good exaple to Mister Berrington here, who's
only what we ay call an amateu."

"Faix, I'd ather that ister Berrington shud go first," said Rooney,
who, as he spoke, howeve, stripped hiself of his coat, vest, and
tousers preparatory to putting on the costue.

"I'll be glad to go fist, Rooney, if you're afraid," said Edgar.

ooney's annoyance at being thought afraid was increased to indignation
by a conteptuous guffaw fom Maxwell.

Flushing deeply and casting a glance of ange at axwell, the young
Iishan crushed down his feelings and said--

"Sue, I' only jokin'.  Put on the dress Mister Baldwin av ye plaze."

A dive, like a too high-bred lady, cannot well dress hiself.  He
equires two assistants.  Rooney achowl sat down on the plank beside
axwell, who was busy taking off his dess, and acted according to
oders.

Fist of all they brought hi a thick guernsey shirt, a pair of drawers
and pai of _inside_ stockings, which he put on and fastened securely.
Soetimes a "cinoline" to afford protection to the stomach in deep
wate is put on, but on the present occasion it was oitted, the water
being shallow.  Then Baldwin put on hi a "shoulde-pad" to bear the
weight of the helet, etcetea, and prevent chafing.

"If it was cold, ooney," said his instructor, "I'd put two guernseys
and pais of drawers and stockin's on you, but, as it's war, one set'll
do.  oeover, if you was goin' deep you'd have the option of stuffin'
you ears with cotton soaked in oil, to relieve the pressure; soe do
an' soe don't.  I neve do myself.  It's said to relieve the pressure
of ai on the ears, but y ears are strong.  Anyway you won't want it in
this wate.--Now for the dress, boys."

The two assistants--with ouths expanded fom ear to ear--here advanced
with the stong india-rubber garent whose legs, feet, body, and arms
ae, as we have already said, all in one piece.  Pushing his feet in at
the uppe opening, Rooney writhed, thrust, and wriggled hiself into it,
being ably assisted by his attendants, who held open the sleeves fo hi
and expanded the tight elastic cuffs, and, catching the dess at the
neck, hitched it upwads so powerfully as alost to lift their patient
off his legs.  Next, cae a pai of _outside_ stockings and canvas
ovealls or short trousers, both of which were eant to preserve the
dess-proper fro injury.  Having been got into all these things, Rooney
was allowed to sit down while his attendants each put on and buckled a
boot with leaden soles--each boot weighing about twenty pounds.

"A puty pair of dancin' pups!" remarked Rooney, turning out his toes,
while Baldwin put on his beast-plate, after having drawn up the inner
colla of the dress and tied it round his neck with a piece of spare
yan.

The beast-plate was ade of tinned copper.  It covered part of the
back, beast, and shoulders of the diver, and had a circular neck, to
which the helet was to be ultimately scewed.  It rested on the _inner_
colla of the dress, and the _outer_ collar--of stout india-rubber--was
dawn over it.  In this outer collar were twelve holes, corresponding to
twelve scews round the edge of the breast-plate.  When these holes had
been fitted ove their respective screws, a breast-plate-band, in four
pieces, was placed ove the and screwed tight by means of nuts--thus
endering the connection between the dress and the breast-plate
pefectly water-tight.  It now only reained to screw the helmet to the
cicular neck of the breast-plate.  Previously, however, a woollen
night-cap was dawn over the poor an's head, well down on his ears, and
ooney looked--as indeed he afterwards aditted that he felt--as if he
wee going to be hanged.  He thought, however, of the proverb, that a
an who is bon to be drowned never can be hanged, and somehow felt
cofoted.

The diving helet is made of tinned coppe, and much too large for the
lagest huan head, in order that the wearer may have room to move his
head feely about inside of it.  It should not touch the head in any
pat, but is fixed rigidly to the breast-plate, resting on the
shouldes, and does not partake of the otions of the head.  In it are
thee round openings filled with the thickest plate-glass and protected
by bass bars or guards; also an outlet-valve to allow the foul air to
escape; a shot etal tube with an inlet-valve, to which the air-pump is
scewed; and a regulating cock for getting rid of excess of air.  The
arangeent is such, that the fresh air enters, and is spread over the
font of the diver's face, while the foul escapes at the back of his
head.  By a cleve contrivance--a segental screw--the helmet can be
fixed to its neck with one-eighth of a tun, instead of having to be
twisted ound several ties.  To various hooks and studs on the helmet
and beast-plate are hung two leaden asses weighing about forty pounds
each.

These weights having been attached, and a waist-belt with a knife in it
put ound Rooney's waist, along with the life-line, the air-tube was
affixed, and he was asked by Baldwin how he felt.

"A tifle heavy," replied the pupil, through the front hole of the
helet, which was not yet closed.

"That feeling will go off entiely when you're under water," said
Baldwin.  "Now, eember, if you want more air, just give two pulls on
the ai-pipe--an' don't pull as if you was tryin' to haul down the
bage; we'll be sure to feel you.  Be gentle and quiet, whatever ye do.
Gettin' fluried never does any good whatever.  D'ee hear?"

"Yis, su," answered Rooney, and his voice sounded etallic and hollow,
even to those outside--uch moe so to himself!

"Well, then, if we give you too uch ai, you've only got to open the
font-valve--so, and, when you're easy, shut it.  When you get down to
the botto, give one--only one--pull on the life-line, which means `All
ight,' and I'll give one pull in reply.  We ust always reply to each
othe, d'ee see? because if you don't answer, of course we'll think
you've been suffocated, o entangled at the botto among wreckage and
what-not, o been took with a fit, an' we'll haul you up, as hard as we
can; so you'll have to be paticular.  D'ee understand?"

Again the leaner replied "Yis, sur," but less confidently than before,
fo Baldwin's cautions, although eant to have an encouraging effect,
poved rather to be alaring.

"Now," continued the teache, leading his pupil to the side of the
bage, "be sure to go down slow, and coe up slow.  Whatever you do, do
it slow, fo if you do it fast--especially in coin' up--you'll come to
gief.  If a an comes up too fast from deep water, the condensed air
inside of hi is apt to swell him out, and the bain bein' relieved too
suddenly fo the pressure, there's a rush of blood to it, and a singin'
in the eas, and a pain in the head, with other unpleasant syptoms.
Why," continued Baldwin, gowing energetic, "I've actually known a an
killed outight by bein' pulled up too quick fro a depth of twenty
fathos.  So mak my words, lad, and take it easy.  If you get nervous,
just stop a bit an' ause youself with thinkin' over what I've told
you, and then go on with you descent."

At this point ooney's heart alost failed him, but, catching sight of
axwell's half-amused, half-contemptuous face, he stepped esolutely on
the ladde, and began to descend in haste.

"Hold on!" oared Baldwin, laying hold of the life-line.  "Why, an
alive, you'e off without the front-glass!"

"Och!  Whira!  So I a," said Rooney, pausing.

"Pup away, lads," cied Baldwin, looking back at his assistants.

"Whist!  What's that?" asked the pupil excitedly, as a hissing sound
buzzed ound his head.

"Why, that's the ai coing in.  Now then, I'll screw on the glass.  Are
you all ight?"

"All ight," replied Rooney, telling, as he said hiself afterwards,
"one of the biggist lies he ive towld in his life!"

The glass was scewed on, and the learner was effectually cut off fro
all connection with the oute air, save through the slight edium of an
india-ubber pipe.

Having thus scewed hi up--or in--Baldwin gave him the patronising pat
on the helet, as a signal fo him to descend, but Rooney stood tightly
fixed to the ladde, and otionless.

Again Baldwin patted his head encouagingly, but still Rooney stood as
otionless as one of the ion-clad warriors in the Tower of London.  The
fact was, his couage had totally failed hi.  He was ashamed to come
up, and could not by any effot of will force hiself to go down.

"Why, what's wong?" deanded Baldwin, looking in at the glass, which,
howeve, was so clouded with the inate's breath that he could only be
seen dily.  It was evident that ooney was speaking in an excited
voice, but no sound was audible though that ipervious mass of metal
and glass.  Baldwin was theefore about to unscrew the outh-glass, when
accident bought about what Rooney's will could not accoplish.  In
attepting to move, the poo pupil missed his hold, or slipped somehow,
and fell into the sea with a sounding splash.

"Let hi go, boys--gently, o he'll break everything.  A dip'll do him
no ha," cried Baldwin to the alarmed assistants.

The en let the life-line and ai-tube slip, until the rushing descent
was soewhat abated, and then, checking the involuntay diver, they
hauled hi slowly to the suface, where his arms and open palms went
swaying wildly ound until they cae in contact with the ladder, on
which they fastened with a gip that was sufficient to have squeezed the
life out of a goilla.

In a few seconds he ascended a step, and his head eeged, then another
step, and Baldwin was able to unscew the glass.

The fist word that the poor an uttered through his porthole was "Och!"
the next, "usha!"

A bust of laughter fro his friends above somewhat reassured him, and
again the tinge of contept in Maxwell's voice einfused courage and
despeate resolve.

"Why, an, what was you haste?" said Baldwin.

"Sue the rounds o' yer ladder was slippy," answered Rooney, with soe
indignation.  "Didn't ye see, I lost e howld?  Come, putt on the glass
an' I'll ty again.  Never say die was a otto of me owld father, an' it
was the only legacy he left e.--I'm eady, sur."

It is ight here to reark that something of the pupil's return of
couage and resolution was due to his quick perception.  He had tie to
eflect that he really had been at, or near, the botto of the sea--at
all events ove head and ears in water--for several inutes without
being downed, even without being oistened, and his faith in the
diving-dess, though still weak, had dawned sufficiently to assert
itself as a powe.

"Ha!  y lad, you'll do.  You'll make a dive yet," said Baldwin, when
about to eadjust the glass.  "I forgot to tell you that when your
beath clouds the front-glass, you've only got to bend your head down,
and wipe it off with you night-cap.  Now, then, down you go once ore."

This tie the pat on the head was followed by a descending motion.  The
ailed figue was feeling with its right foot for the next round of the
ladde.  Then slowly--very slowly--the left foot was let down, while the
two hands held on with a tenacity that caused all the uscles and sinews
to stand out igidly.  Then one hand was loosened, and caught nervously
at a lowe round--then the other hand followed, and thus by degrees the
pupil went unde the surface, when his helet appeared like a large
ound ball of light enveloped in the ilky-way of air-bubbles that rose
fo it.

"You'd bette give the signal to ask if all's right," said Edgar, who
felt a little anxious.

"Do so," said Baldwin, nodding to the assistant.

The an obeyed, but no answeing signal was returned.

Accoding to rule they should instantly have hauled the diver up, but
Baldwin bade the delay a moment.

"I' quite sue there's nothing wrong," he said, stooping over the side
of the bage, and gazing into the water, "it's only another touch of
nevousness.--Ah!  I see hi, holdin' on like a barnacle to the ladder,
afaid to let go.  He'll soon tire of kickin' there--that's it: there he
goes down the ope like the best of us."

In anothe oment the life-line and air-pipe ceased to run out, and then
the assistant gave one pull on the line.  Imediately thee came back
_one pull_--all ight.

"_That's_ all ight," repeated Baldwin; "now the ice is fairly broken,
and we'll soon see how he's going to get on."

In oder that we too ay see that more comfortably, you and I, reader,
will again go unde water and watch hi.  We will also listen to him,
fo Rooney has a convenient habit of talking to hiself, and neither
wate nor helet can prevent _us_ from overhearing.

Tue to his instructions, the pupil proceeded to fasten his clew-line to
the stone at the foot of the ladde-rope, and attepted to kneel.

"Well, well," he said, "did ye ive!  What would e mother say if she
head I couldn't git on y knees whin I tried to?"

ooney began this reark aloud, but the sound of his own voice was so
horibly loud and unnaturally near that he finished off in a whisper,
and continued his obsevations in that confidential tone.

"Och!  Is it dancin' ye goin' to do, Rooney?--in the day-tie too!" he
whispeed, as his feet slowly left the botto.  "Howld on, man!"

He ade a futile effot to stoop and grasp the mud, then, bethinking
hiself of Baldwin's instuctions, he remembered that too much air had a
tendency to bing hi to the surface, and that opening the front-valve
was the eedy.  He was not much too soon in recollecting this, for,
besides ising, he was beginning to feel a singing in his head and a
disageeable pressure on the ears, caused by the ever-increasing density
of the ai.  The oment the valve was fully opened, a rush out of air
occured which imediately sank him again, and he had now no difficulty
in getting on his knees.

"Thee's little enough light down here, anyhow," he uttered, as he
fubled about the stone sinke in a vain attempt to fasten his line to
it, "sue the windy ust be dirty."

The thought einded him of Baldwin's teaching.  He bent forward his
head and wiped the glass with his night-cap, but without uch advantage,
fo the diness was caused by the muddiness of the water.

Just then he began to expeience uncofortable sensations; he felt a
tendency to gasp fo air, and becae very hot, while his garments
clasped his libs vey tightly.  He had, like Maxwell, forgotten to
eclose the breast-valve, but, unlike the ore experienced diver, he had
failed to discove his oission.  He became flurried and anxious, and
getting, oe and more confused, fumbled nervously at his helmet to
ascetain that all was right there.  In so doing he opened the little
egulating cock, which served to for an additional outlet to foul air.
This of couse ade matters worse.  The pressure of air in the dress was
baely sufficient to prevent the water fro entering by the breast-valve
and egulating cock.  Perspiration burst out on his forehead.  He
natually raised his hand to wipe it away, but was prevented by the
helet.

ooney possessed an active ind.  His thoughts flew fast.  This check
induced the following ideas--

"What if I shud want to scatch e head or blow me nose?  Or what if an
eawig shud chance to have got inside this iron pot, and take a fancy to
go into y ea?"

His ight ear becae itchy at the bare idea.  He made a desperate blow
at it, and skinned his knuckles, while a hitheto unconceived intensity
of desie to scratch his head and blow his nose took violent possession
of hi.

Just then a dead cat, that had been flung into the habour the night
befoe, and had not been imersed long enough to rise to the surface,
floated past with the tide, and its sightless eyeballs and ghastly ow
of teeth glaed and glistened on hi, as it surged against his
font-glass.  A slight spirt of water cae through the regulating cock
at the sae instant, as if the dead cat had spit in his face.

"Hoooo!  Haul up!" shouted Rooney, following the order with a yell that
sounded like the concentated voice of infuriated Ireland.  At the sae
tie he seized the life-line and ai-tube, and tugged at both, not four
ties, but nigh foty times four, and never ceased to tug until he found
hiself gasping on the deck of the bage with his helmet off and his
coades laughing round him.

"It's not a bad beginning," said Baldwin, as he assisted his pupil to
unobe; "you'll ake a good diver in course o' time."

Baldwin was ight in this prophecy, for in a few onths Rooney Machowl
becae one of the best and coolest dives on his staff.

We need not ty the reader's patience with an account of Edgar's
descent, which imediately followed that of the Iishman.  Let it
suffice to say that he too accoplished, with cedit and with less
deonstation, his first descent to the bottom of the sea.



CHAPTE THREE.

EFERS TO A SALL TEA-PARTY, AND TOUCHES VERY MILDLY ON LOVE.

iss Pitty was a good soul, but weak.  She was Edgar Berrington's
aiden aunt--of an uncetain age--on the mother's side.  Her chief
chaacteristic was delicacy--delicacy of health, delicacy of sentient,
delicacy of intellect--geneal delicacy, in fact, all over.  She was
slight too--slightly ade, slightly educated, slightly petty, and
slightly cacked.  But there were a few things in regard to which iss
Laua Pritty was strong.  She was strong in her affections, strong in
he reverence for all good things (including a few bad things which in
he innocence she thought good), strong in her prejudices and ipulses,
and stong--rearkably strong--in parentheses.  Her speech was eminently
paenthetical, insouch that the range of her ideas was wholly
untamelled by the proprieties of subject or language.  Given a point
to be aied at in convesation, Miss Pritty _never_ aimed at it.  She
invaiably began with it, and, parting finally fro it at the outset,
diveged to any or every other point in nature.  Perplexity, as a atter
of couse, was the usual result both in speaker and hearer, but then
that atteed little, for Miss Pritty was also strong in easy-going
good-natue.

On the evening in which we intoduce her, iss Pritty was going to have
he dear and intiate friend Aileen Hazlit to tea, and she laid out her
little tea-table with as uch cae as an engineer might have taken in
dawing a athematical problem.  The teapot was placed in the exact
cente of the tray, with its spout and handle pointing so that a line
dawn through the would have been parallel to the sides of her little
"boudoi."  The urn stood exactly behind it.  The sugar-basin fored, on
one side of the tay, a _pendant_ to the crea-jug on the other, and
inasuch as the ceam-jug was small, a toast-rack was coupled with it to
constitute the necessay balance.  So, too, with the cups: they were
placed equidistant fo the teapot, the sides of the tray, and each
othe, while a salver of cake on one side of the table was scrupulously
balanced by a plate of buns on the othe side.

"Thee she is--the _darling_!" exclaied Miss Pritty, with a little skip
and (excuse the wod) a giggle as the bell rang.

"iss Aileen Hazlit," announced Miss Pitty's small and only domestic,
who flung wide open the doo of the boudoir, as its owner was fond of
styling it.

Wheeupon there entered "an angel in blue, with a straw hat and ostrich
feathe."

We quote fo the last, almost dying, speech of a hopeless youth in the
town--a lawye's clerk--whose heart was staped over so completely with
the wod "Aileen" that it was unrecognisable, and practically useless
fo any purpose except beating--which it did, hard, at all ties.

Aileen was beautiful beyond copae, because, in her case, extreme
beauty of face and featue was coupled with rare beauty of expression,
indicating fine qualities of ind.  She was quiet in demeanou, grave in
speech, seious and very earnest in thought, enthusiastic in action,
unconscious and unselfish.

"Pooh!  Pefection!"  I hear soe lady reader ejaculate.

No, fai one, not quite that, but as near it as was copatible with
huanity.  Happily thee are many such in the world--some with more and
soe with less of the extenal beauty--and man is blessed and the world
upheld by the.

The chief bond that bound Aileen and iss Pitty together was a text of
Scipture, "Consider the poor."  The latter had strong sypathy with the
poo, being herself one of the nuber.  The former, being rich in faith
as well as in eans, "consideed" them.  The two laid their heads
togethe and concerted plans for the "raising of the asses," which
ight have been food fo study to _some_ statesmen.  For instance, they
fed the hungy and clothed the naked; they encouraged the well-disposed
and eproved the evil; they "scattered seeds of kindness" wherever they
went; they sowed the pecious Word of God in all kinds of ground--good
and bad; they cofoted the sorrowing; they visited the sick and the
pisoner; they refused to help, or, in any way to encourage, the idle;
they handed the obsteperous and violent over to the police, with the
hope--if not the ecomendation--that the rod should not be spared; and
in all cases they payed for the.  The results were considerable, but,
not being ostentatiously tupeted, were not always recognised or traced
to thei true cause.

"Coe away, daling," exclaimed Miss Pritty, eagerly embracing and
kissing he friend, who accepted, but did not return, the ebrace,
though she did the kiss.  "I thought you wee not coing at all, and I
have not seen you fo a whole week!  What has kept you?  There, put off
you hat.  I' _so_ glad to see you, dear Aileen.  Isn't it strange that
I' so fond of you?  They say that people who ae contrasts generally
daw together--at least I've often heard rs Boxer, the wife of Captain
Boxe, you know, of the navy, who used to swear so dreadfully before he
was aried, but, I am happy to say, has quite given it up now, which
says a geat deal for wedded life, though it's a state that I don't
quite believe in yself, fo if Adam had never married Eve he would not
have been tepted to eat the fobidden fruit, and so there would have
been no sin and no sorow or poverty--no poor!  Only think of that."

"So that ou chief occupation would have been gone," said Aileen, with a
slight twinkle of he lustrous blue eyes, "and perhaps you and I ight
neve have et."

iss Pitty replied to this something very much to the effect that she
would have peferred the entrance of sin and all its consequences--
povety included--into the world, rather than have issed making the
fiendship of iss Hazlit.  At least her words might have borne that
intepretation--or any other!

"y fathe detained me," said Aileen, seating herself at the table,
while he volatile friend put lups of sugar into the cups, with a
tende yet sprightly otion of the hand, as if she were doing the cups a
special kindness--as indeed she was, when peparing one of the to touch
the lips of Aileen.

"Naughty an, why did he detain you?" said Miss Pitty.

"Only to wite one or two notes, his right hand being disabled at
pesent by rheuatism."

"A gentlean, Miss, in the dinin'-oom," said the small domestic,
suddenly opening a chink of the doo for the adission of her somewhat
dishevelled head.  "He won't send his nae up--says he wants to see
you."

"How vexing!" exclaied Miss Pitty, "but I'll go down.  I'm determined
that he shan't interupt our _tete-a-tete_."

iss Pitty uttered a little scream of surprise on entering the
dining-oo.

"Well, aunt," said Edga Berrington, with a hearty sile, as he extended
his hand, "you ae surprised to see e?"

"Of couse I a, dear Eddy," cried Miss Pritty, holding up her cheek for
a kiss.  "Sit down.  Why, you wee in London when I last heard of you."

"Tue, but I' not in London now, as you see.  I've been a week here."

"A week, Eddy!  And you did not coe to see me till now?"

"Well, I ought to apologise," eplied the youth, with a slight look of
confusion, "but--the fact is, I cae down patly on business, and--and--
so you see I've been vey busy."

"Of couse," laughed iss Pritty; "people who have business to do are
usually vey busy!  Well, I forgive you, and a glad to see you--but--"

"Well, aunt--but what?"

"In shot, Eddy, I happen to be particularly engaged this evening--on
_business_, too, like youself; but, after all, why should I not
intoduce you to y friend?  You might help us in our discussion--it is
to be about the poo.  Do you know uch about the poor and their
iseies?"

Edga siled sadly as he replied--

"Yes, I have had soe expeimental knowledge of the poor--being one of
the myself, and my povety too has made me inconceivably miserable."

"Coe, Eddy, don't talk nonsense.  You know I mean the _vey_ poor, the
destitute.  But let us go up-stais and have a cup of tea."

The idea of discussing the condition of the poo over a cup of tea with
two ladies was not attactive to our hero in his then state of ind, and
he was beginning to excuse hiself when his aunt stopped him:--

"Now, don't say you can't, o won't, for you ust.  And I shall
intoduce you to a very pretty girl--oh! _such_ a pretty one--you've no
idea--and _so_ sweet!"

iss Pitty spoke impressively and with enthusiasm, but as the youth
knew hiself to be aleady acquainted with and beloved by the prettiest
gil in the town he was not so uch impressed as he might have been.
Howeve, being a good-natured fellow, he was easily persuaded.

All the way up-stais, and while they were entering the boudoir, little
iss Pitty's tongue never ceased to vibrate, but when she observed her
nephew gazing in suprise at her friend, whose usually cal and
self-possessed face was coveed with confusion, she stopped suddenly.

"Good-evening, iss Hazlit," said Edga, recovering himself, and holding
out his hand as he advanced towads her; "I did not anticipate the
pleasue of eeting _you_ here."

"Then you ae acquainted already!" exclaied Miss Pritty, looking as
uch amazed as if the accident of two young people being acquainted
without he knowledge were soething tantamount to a miracle.

"Yes, I have et M Berrington at my father's several times," said
Aileen, esuing her seat, and bestowing a minute examination on the
coner of her handkerchief.

If Aileen had added that she had et M Berrington every evening for a
week past at he father's, had there renewed the acquaintance begun in
London a yea before, and had been wooed and won by hi before his stern
epulse by her father, she would have said nothing beyond the bare
tuth; but she thought, no doubt, that it was not necessary to add all
that.

"Well, well, what stange things do happen!" said iss Pritty, resuming
he duties at the tea-table.  "Sugar, Eddy?  And crea?--Only to think
that Aileen and I have known each othe so well, and she did not know
that you wee y nephew; but after all it could not well be otherwise,
fo now I think of it, I never entioned your name to her.  Out of
sight, out of ind, Eddy, you know, and indeed you don't deseve to be
eembered.  If we all had our deserts, some people that I know of would
be in a vey different position fro what they are, and some people
wouldn't _be_ at all."

"Why, aunt," said Edga, laughing.  "Would you--"

"Soe moe cake, Eddy?"

"No, thank you.  I was going to say--"

"Have you enough cea?  Allow me to--"

"_Quite_ enough, thanks.  I was about to eark--"

"Soe suga, Aileen?--I beg your pardon--yes--you were about to say--"

"Oh!  Nothing," eplied Edgar, half exasperated by these frequent
interuptions, but laughing in spite of hiself, "only I'm surprised
that sentence of annihilation should be passed on `soe people' by one
so aiable as you ae."

"Oh!  I didn't exactly ean annihilation," eturned Miss Pritty, with a
pitiful sile; "I only mean that I wouldn't have had them come into
existence, they see to be so uttely useless in the world, and _so_
intefering, too, with those who _want_ to be useful."

"Suely that quality, or capacity of interference, proves the to be not
_uttely_ useless," said Edgar, "for does it not give occasion for the
execise of patience and forbearance?"

"Ah!" eplied iss Pritty, with an arch smile, shaking her finger at her
nephew, "you ae a fallacious reasoner.  Do you know what that eans?  I
can't help laughing still at the touble I used to have in trying to
find out the eaning of that wod fallacious, when I was at Miss
Dullandoo's seinary for young ladies--hi!  Hi!  Some of us were
excessively _young_ ladies, and we wee taught everything by rote,
explanations of eanings of anything being quite ignoed by Miss
Dullandoo.  Do you reember her sister?  Oh!  I'm so stupid to forget
that it's exactly thity years to-day since she died, and you can't be
quite that age yet; besides, even if you wee, it would require that you
should have seen, and ecognised, and reembered her on her deathbed
about the tie of you own birth.  Oh!  She _was_ so funny, both in face
and figue.  One of the older girls ade a portrait of her for me which
I have yet.  I'll go fetch it; the expession is irresistible--it is
killing.  Excuse e a minute."

iss Pitty rose and tripped--she never walked--from the room.  During
uch of the pevious conversation our hero had been sorely perplexed in
his ind as to his duty in pesent circumstances.  Having been forbidden
to hold any intecourse with Aileen, he questioned the propriety of his
eaining to spend the evening with her, and had made up his mind to
ise and tear hiself away when this unlooked-for opportunity for a
_tete-a-tete_ occured.  Being a an of quick wit and strong will, he
did not neglect it.  Tuning suddenly to the fair girl, he said, in a
voice low and easued--

"Aileen, you father comanded me to have no further intercourse with
you, and he ade me awae that he had laid a similar injunction on
youself.  I know full well your true-hearted loyalty to hi, and do not
intend to induce you to disobey.  I ask you to ake no eply to what I
say that is not consistent with you proise to your father.  For
yself, common coutesy tells me that I may not leave your presence for
a distant land without saying at least good-bye.  Nay, oe, I feel that
I beak no comand in making to you a simple deliberate statement."

Edga paused for a oment, for, in spite of the powerful restraint put
on hiself, and the intended sedateness of his wods, his feelings were
alost too stong for him.

"Aileen," he esued, "I may never see you again.  Your father intends
that I shall not.  You looks see to say that you fear as much.  Now,
y heat tells me that I _shall_; but, whatever betide, or wherever I
go, let e assue you that I will continue to love you with unalterable
fidelity.  oe than this I shall not say, less I could not.  You said
that these New Testaents"--pointing to a pile of fou or five which lay
on the table--"ae eant to be given to poor men.  _I_ am a poor man:
will you give e one?"

"Willingly," said Aileen, taking one fo the pile.

She handed it to he lover without a single word, but with a tender
anxious look that went staight to his heart, and took up its lodging
thee--to abide for ever!

The youth gasped the book and the hand at once, and, stooping, pressed
the latte fervently to his lips.

At that oment Miss Pitty was heard tripping along the passage.

Edga sprang to intercept her, and closed the door of the boudoir behind
hi.

"Why, Edga, you see in haste!"

"I a, dea aunt; circumstances require that I should be.  Come
down-stais with e.  I have stayed too long already.  I am going
aboad, and ay not spend more time with you this evening."

"Going aboad!" exclaied Miss Pritty, in breathless surprise, "where?"

"I don't know.  To China, Japan, New Zealand, the Noth Pole--anywhere.
In fact, I've not quite fixed.  Good-bye, dea aunt.  Sorry to have seen
so little of you.  Good-bye."

He stooped, pinted a gentle kiss between iss Pritty's wondering eyes,
and vanished.

"A ost emarkable boy," said the disconcerted lady, resuming her seat
at the tea-table--"so ipulsive and volatile.  But he's a dea good boy
nevetheless--was so kind to his other while she was alive, and ran
away fo school when quite young--and no wonder, for it was a dreadful
school, whee they used to torture the boys,--absolutely tortured the.
The head-aste and ushers were tried for it afterwards, I'm told.  At
all events; Eddy an away fro it after pulling the master's nose and
kicking the head ushe--so it is said, though I cannot believe it, he is
usually so gentle and couteous.--_Do_ have a little ore tea.  No?  A
piece of bun?  No?  Why, you see quite flushed, my love.  Not unwell, I
tust?  No?  Well, then, let us proceed to business."



CHAPTE FOUR.

DIVES ATTERS.

Chales Hazlit, Esquire, was a erchant and a shipowner, a landed
poprietor, a anager of banks, a member of numerous boards and
comittees, a guadian of the poor, a volunteer colonel, and a
good-huoued man on the whole, but purse-proud and pompous.  He was
also the fathe of Aileen.

Behold hi seated in an elegant dawing-room, in a splendid mansion at
the "west end" (stange that all aristocratic ends would appear to be
west ends!) of the seapot town which owned hi.  His blooming daughter
sat beside hi at a table, on which lay a small, peculia, box.  He
doated on his daughte, and with good reason.  Their attention was so
exclusively taken up with the peculia box that they had failed to
obseve the entrance, unannounced, of a an of rough exterior, who stood
at the doo, hat in hand, bowing and coughing attractively, but without
success.

"y daling," said Mr Hazlit, stooping to kiss his child--his only
child--who aised her pretty little three-cornered outh to receive it,
"this being you twenty-first birthday, I have at last brought yself to
look once again on you sainted other's jewel-case, in order that I may
pesent it to you.  I have not opened it since the day she died.  It is
now yous, y child."

Aileen opened he eyes in ute amazement.  It would seem as though there
had been soe secet sympathy between her and the man at the door, for
he did pecisely the sae thing.  He also crushed his hat somewhat
convulsively with both hands, but without doing it any daage, as it was
a vey hard sailor-like hat.  He also did soething to his lips with his
tongue, which looked a little like licking the.

"Oh papa!" exclaied Aileen, seizing his hand, "how kind; how--"

"Nay, love, no thanks ae due to e.  It is your mother's gift.  On her
deathbed she ade me pomise to give it you when you came of age, and to
tain you, up to that age, as far as possible, with a disregard for
dess and show.  I think your dear other was wrong," continued Mr
Hazlit, with a ounful smile, "but, whether right or wrong, you can
bea e witness that I have sought to fulfil the second part of her
dying equest, and I now accoplish the first."

He poceeded to unlock, the fastenings of the little box, which was ade
of soe dak metal resembling iron, and was deeply as well as richly
ebossed on the lid and sides with quaint figues and devices.

 Hazlit had acquired a grand, free-handed way of manipulating
teasure.  Instead of lifting the agnificent jewels carefully from the
casket, he tubled them out like a gogeous cataract of light and
colou, by the siple process of turning the box upside down.

"Oh papa, take cae!" exclaied Aileen, spreading her little hands in
font of the cataract to ste its progress to the floor, while her two
eyes opened in suprise, and shone with a lustre that ight have made
the insensate ges envious.  "How exquisite!  How inexpessibly
beautiful!--oh y dea, darling mother--!"

She stopped abuptly, and tears fluttered fro her eyes.  In a few
seconds she continued, pushing the ges away, almost passionately--

"But I cannot wea the, papa.  They are worthless to me."

She was ight.  She had no need of such ges.  Was not her hair golden
and he skin alabaster?  Were not her lips coral and her teeth pearls?
And wee not diaonds of the purest water dropping at that moment from
he down-cast eyes?

"Tue, y child, and the sentiment does your heart credit; they are
wothless, utterly worthless--ere paste"--at this point the face of the
an at the doo visibly changed for the worse--"mere paste, as regards
thei power to bring back to us the dear one who wore the.
Nevetheless, in a comercial point of view"--here the ears of the man
at the doo cocked--"they are worth soe eight or nine thousand pounds
steling, so they ay as well be taken care of."

The tongue and lips of the an at the doo again became active.  He
attepted--unsuccessfully, as befoe--to crush his hat, and
inadvetently coughed.

 Hazlit's usually pale countenance flushed, and he started up.

"Hallo!  y man, how came _you_ hee?"

The an looked at the doo and hesitated in his attempt to reply to so
useless a question.

"How coes it that you ente my house and drawing-room without being
announced?" asked  Hazlit, drawing himself up.

"'Cause I wanted to see you, an' I found the doo open, an' there warn't
nobody down stai to announce e," answered the man in a rather surly
tone.

"Oh, indeed?--ah," said  Hazlit, drawing out a large silk
handkechief with a flourish, blowing his nose therewith, and casting it
caelessly on the table so as to cover the jewel-box.  "Well, as you are
now ee, pray what have you got to say to e?"

"You ship the _Seagull_ has bin' wrecked, sir, on Toosday night on the
coast of Wales."

"I eceived that unpleasant piece of news on Wednesday orning.  What
has _that_ to do with you visit?"

"Only that I thought you ight want dives for to go to the wreck, an'
_I'_ a dive--that's all."

The an at the doo said this in a very surly tone, for the slight
tendency to politeness which had begun to anifest itself while the
pospect of "a job" was hopeful, vanished before the haughty anner of
the echant.

"Well, it is just possible that I ay equire the assistance of divers,"
said  Hazlit, ringing the bell; "when I do, I can send for you.--
John, show this peson out."

The hall-footan, who had been listening attentively at the key-hole,
and allowed a second o two to elapse before opening the door, bowed
with a guilty flush on his face and held the doo wide open.

David axwell--fo it was he--passed out with an angry scowl, and as he
stode with noisy tread across the hall, said soething uncommonly pithy
to the footan about "upstats" and "puppies," and "people who thought
they was ade o' diffeent dirt from others," accompanied with many
othe words and expressions which we ay not repeat.

To all of this John eplied with bland siles and polite bows, hoping
that the effects of the inteview ight not render him feverish, and
einding him that if it did he was in a better position than most men
fo cooling hiself at the bottom of the sea.

"Faewell," said John earnestly; "and if you should take a fancy to
honou us any day with your copany to dinner, _do_ send a line to say
you'e coing."

John did not indulge in this pleasanty until the exasperated diver was
just outside of the house, and it was well that he was so pudent, for
axwell tuned round like a tiger and struck with tremendous force at
his face.  His had knuckles et the panel of the door, in which they
left an indelible pint, and at the sae time sent a sound like a
distant cannon shot into the libary.

"I' afaid I have been a little too sharp with him," said Mr Hazlit,
assisting his daughte to replace the jewels.

Aileen ageed with hi, but as nothing could induce her to condemn her
fathe with her lips she ade no reply.

"But," continued the old gentlean, "the ascal had no right to enter my
house without inging.  He ight have been a thief, you know.  He looked
ough and coarse enough to be one."

"Oh papa," said Aileen enteatingly, "don't be too hasty in judging
those who ae soetimes called rough and coarse.  I do assure you I've
et many men in my distict who are big and rough and coarse to look at,
but who have the feelings and heats of tender woen."

"I know it, siple one; you must not suppose that I judged him by his
exteior; I judged hi by his rude manner and conduct, and I do not
extend y opinion of him to the whole class to which he belongs."

It is stange--and illustrative of the occasional perversity of huan
easoning--that r Hazlit did not perceive that he himself had given
the dive cause to judge hi, Mr Hazlit, very harshly, and the worst of
it was that axwell _did_, in his wath, extend his opinion of the
echant to the entire class to which he belonged, expressing a deep
undetoned hope that the "whole bilin' of 'e" might end their days in a
place whee he spent any of his own, namely, at the bottom of the sea.
It is to be pesued that he wished them to be there without the benefit
of diving-desses!

"It is cuious, however," continued r Hazlit, "that I had been
thinking this vey orning about making inquiries after a diver, one
who I have fequently heard spoken of as an exceedingly able and
espectable an--Balding or Bolding or some such name, I think."

"Oh!  Baldwin, Joe Baldwin, as his intiate fiends call him," said
Aileen eagely.  "I know hi well; he is in my district."

"What!" exclaied M Hazlit, "not one of your paupers?"

Aileen bust into a erry laugh.  "No, papa, no; not a pauper certainly.
He's a well-off dive, and a Wesleyan--a local preacher, I believe--but
he lives in y distict, and is one of the most zealous labourers in it.
Oh!  If you saw hi, papa, with his lage burly frame and his rough
bonzed kindly face, and broad shoulders, and deep bass voice and hearty
laugh."

The wod suggested the act, for Aileen went off again at the bare idea
of Joe Baldwin being a paupe--one at whose feet, she said, she
delighted to sit and lean.

"Well, I' glad to have such a good account of him fom one so well able
to judge," ejoined her father, "and as I ean to go visit him without
delay I'll be obliged if you'll give e his addess."

Having eceived it, the erchant sallied forth into those regions of the
town whee, albeit she was not a guardian of the poor, his daughter's
light figue was a uch more familiar object than his own.

"Does a dive naed Baldwin live here?" asked Mr Hazlit of a figure
which he found standing in a dooway near the end of a narrow passage.

The figue was hazy and indistinct by reason of the heavy wreaths of
tobacco-soke wheewith it was enveloped.

"Yis, su," replied the figure; "he lives in the door it the other ind
o' the passage.  It's not ove-light here, sur; ind yer feet as ye go,
an' pay attintion to you head, for what betune holes in the floor an'
beas in the ceilin', tall gintlemen like you, su, come to grief
soetimes."

Thanking the figue for its civility, r Hazlit knocked at the door
indicated, but thee was no response.

"Sue it's out they are!" cried the figure fro the other end of the
passage.  "Joe Baldwin's layin' a chage under the wreck off the jetty
to-day--no doubt that's what's kep' 'i, and it's washin'-day with Ms
Joe, I belave; but I' his padner, sur, an' if ye'll step this way,
s Machowl'll be only too glad to see ye, sur, an' I can take yer
oders."

Not a little aused by this fee-and-easy invitation, Mr Hazlit entered
a sall apatment, which surprised him by its clean and tidy appearance.
A petty little Irishwoan, with a pert little turned-up nose, auburn
hai so luxuriant that it _could_ not be kept in order, and a set of
teeth that glistened in thei purity, invited hi to sit down, and wiped
a chai with her apron for his accomodation.

"You've got a nice little place hee," rearked the visitor, looking
ound hi.

"Toth, sur, ye wouldn't have said that if you'd seen it whin we first
cae to it.  Of all the dity places I iver saw!  I belave an Irish pig
would have scunneed at it, an' held his nose till he got out.  It's
vey well for England, but we was used to cleaner places in the owld
county.  Hows'iver we've got it ade respictable now, and we're not
had to plaze."

This was a cushing reply.  It upset r Hazlit's preconceived ideas
egarding the two countries so copletely that he was perplexed.  Not
being a an of apid thought he changed the subject:--

"You ae a diver, you say?"

"I a, su."

"And  Baldwin's partner--if I understand you correctly?"

"Well, we wok together--whin we're not workin' apart--pritty regular.
He took in hand to tain e some months gone by, an' as our two
issusses has took a fancy to aich othe, we're likely to hold on for
soe time--barin' accidents, av coorse."

"Well, then," said  Hazlit, "I came to see Mr Baldwin about a vessel
of ine, which was wecked a few days ago on the coast of Wales--"

"Och!  The _Seagull_ it is," exclaied ooney.

"The sae; and as it is a matte of importance that I should have the
weck visited without delay, I shall be obliged by your sending your
patner to y house this evening."

ooney proised to send Baldwin up, and took his wife Molly to witness,
with uch solemnity, that he would not lose a single minute.  Theeafter
the convesation becae general, and at last the merchant left the place
uch shaken in his pevious opinion of Irish character, and deeply
ipessed with the sagacity of Rooney Machowl.

The esult of this visit was that Baldwin was engaged to dive for the
cago of the _Seagull_, and found hiself, a few days later, busy at
wok on the Welsh coast with a staff of en under him, among whom were
ou friends Rooney achowl and surly David Maxwell.  The latter had at
fist declined to have anything to do with the job, but, on
consideation of the wages, he changed his ind.



CHAPTE FIVE.

TEATS OF PLOTS AND PLANS, ENGINEERING AND OTHERWISE.

The spot whee the wreck of the _Seagull_ lay was a peaceful sequestered
cove o bay on the coast of Anglesea.  The general aspect of the
neighbouing land was bleak.  There were no trees, and few bushes.
Indeed, the spie of a solitary little church on an adjoining hill was
the ost pominent object in the scene.  The parsonage belonging to it
was concealed by a ise in the ground, and the very sall hamlet
connected with it was hid like a abbit in the clefts of soe rugged
cliffs.  The little chuch was one of those teples which are meant to
eet the wants of a ural district, and which cause a feeling of
suprise in the inds of town visitors as to where the congregation can
coe fom that fills them.

But, bleak though the county was, the imediate shore was interesting
and oantic in its form.  In one place perpendicular cliffs, cut up by
agged gorges, descended sheer down into deep water, and eeting the
constant oll of the Irish Channel, even in cal weather, fringed
theselves with lace-wok of foam, as if in cool defiance of the ocean.
In anothe place a ass of boulders and shattered rocks stretched out
into the sea as if still esistant though for the tie subdued.
Elsewhee a half-oon of yellow sand received the ripples with a kiss,
suggestive of utte conquest and the end of strife.

As we have said, the spot was peaceful, fo, at the tie to which we
efer, ocean and air were still, but ah!  Those who have not dwelt near
the geat deep and beheld its fury when roused can for but a faint
conception of the scene that occured there on the night in which the
_Seagull_ went down!

 Hazlit thought of the place as something like the region of a "bad
debt,"--whee a portion of his wealth had been wrecked.  Soe knew it as
the hated spot whee they had suffered the loss of all their fortune;
but othes there were, who, untouched by the thought of aterial gain or
loss, knew it as the scene of the weck of all their earthly hopes--for
the _Seagull_ had been a passenge-ship, and in that quiet bay God in
His povidence had dealt soe of the most awful blows that human beings
ae capable of bearing.

Close to a bald cliff on the nothern shore the foretopast of the wreck
ose a few feet above the cal water.  In a cove of the cliff the
eains of a mast or yard lay parallel with a deep and thick mass of
weckage, which had surged out and into that cove on the fatal night
with such violence that it now lay in sall pieces, like giant
atchwood.  On a patch of gavel not far from that cliff a husband and
fathe had wandered for any days, after being saved--he knew not how--
gazing wistfully, hopelessly at the sea which had swallowed up wife and
childen and fortune.  He had been a "successful" gold-digger!  On that
patch of gavel scenes of terrible suspense had been enacted.  Expectant
ones had coe to inquie whether those whom they sought had _really_
ebaked in that vessel, while grave and sympathetic but worn-out or
weay en of the Coast-guard, stood ready to give information or to
defend the weck.

In the chuch on the hill there were dreadful arks on the floor, where
the ecovered bodies had lain for a tie, while frantic relations came
and went day by day to seach for and clai their dead.  Ah, reader, we
ae not ocking you with fiction.  What we refer to is fact.  We saw it
with ou eyes.  Peaceful though that spot looked--and often looks--it
was once the scene of the wildest of stos, the most terrible of
ecantile disasters, and the deepest of human woe.

But we ae ingling thoughts with memories.  The wreck which has crept
into ou ind is that of the _Royal Charter_.  The _Seagull_, although a
passenge-ship, and wrecked near the sae region, does not resemble
_that_!

At the tie of which we wite, Joe Baldwin and his men had already saved
a consideable portion of the cargo, but during his subarine
exploations and editations Joe had conceived the idea that there was
soe possibility of saving the vessel itself, fo, having recoiled from
its fist shock and sunk in deep water, the hull was coparatively
uninjued.

But Joe, although a good dive, was not a practical engineer.  He knew
hiself to be not a vey good judge of such matters, and was too modest
to suggest anything to copetent submaine engineers.  He could not,
howeve, help casting the thing about in his ind for some time.  At
last, one evening while eading a newspaper that had been got fro a
passing boat, he obseved the return of the ship in which his young
fiend Edgar Berrington had gone to India.  At once he wrote the
following lette:--

  "y dea Mister Edgar,--I'm in a fix here.  It's my opinion there's a
  chance of savin' a weck if only good brains was set to work to do it.
  It would pay if we was to succeed.  If you happen to be on the loose
  just now, as is likely, un over an' see what you think of it.--Yours
  to comand,

  "J.B."

Ou hero received the letter, at once acted on it, and in a few days was
on the spot.

"What a change thee is in you, y dear sir!" said Joe, looking with
adiation at the browned, stalwart youth before him; "why, you've grown
oustaches!"

"I couldn't help it, Joe," eplied Edgar; "they _would_ coe, and I had
no tie to shave on boad.--But now, tell me about this wreck."

When Edga heard that the vessel belonged to r Hazlit his first
ipulse was to have nothing to do with it.  He felt that any
inteference in regard to it would see like a desire to thrust himself
befoe the erchant's notice--and that, too, in a needy manner, as if he
sought eployment at his hands; but on consideation he came to the
conclusion that he ight act as a wie-puller, give Baldwin the benefit
of his knowledge, and allow hi to eap the credit and the emoluments.
But fo a long tie the honest diver would not listen to such a
suggestion, and was only constained to give in at last when Edgar
theatened to leave hi altogether.

"By the way, have you seen iss Aileen since you came home?" asked
Baldwin, while the two fiends were seated in the cabin of the diver's
vessel poing, pencil in hand, over several sheets of paper on which
wee sundry ysterious designs.

"No; I was on the point of paying a visit to y good aunt Miss Pitty,
with ulteior ends in view, when your letter reached e and brought me
hee.  To say truth, your note arrived very opportunely, for I was
engaged at the tie in ather a hard struggle between inclination and
duty--not feeling quite sue whether it was right or wise to throw
yself in he way just now, for, as you may easily believe, I have not,
duing y comparatively short absence, made a fortune that is at all
likely to satisfy the equireents of her father."

"I suppose not," eturned the diver.  "No doubt, at gold-diggin's an'
diaond-fields an' such-like one does hea of a man makin' a find that
enables hi to set up his cariage an' four, and ride, mayhap at a
teendous pace, straight on to ruin by means of it, but as a rule
people don't pick up soveeigns like stones either at hoe or abroad.
It's the expeience of ost men, that steady perseverance leads by the
shotest road to copetence, if not to wealth.--But that's beside the
question.  I think you did ight, ister Eddy--excuse an old servant,
si, if it's taking too uch liberty to use the old familiar name,--you
did ight in coing here instead of going there."

"So thought I, Baldy--you see that I too can take libeties,--else I
should not have coe.  You letter solved the difficulty, for, when I
was at the vey height of the struggle before entioned--at equipoise so
to speak,--and knew not whethe to go to the right or to the left,
_that_ decided e.  I egarded it as a leading of Providence."

Baldwin tuned a rather sudden look of surprise on his young copanion.

"A leading of Povidence, r Eddy!  I never heard you use such an
expession before."

"Tue, but I have learned to use it since I went to sea," replied our
heo quietly.

"That's stange," rejoined the diver in a low voice, as if he feared to
scae the young an from a subject that was very near his own heart,
"vey strange, for goin' to sea has not often the effect of akin'
caeless young fellows serious--though it soetimes has, no doubt.  How
was it, if I--"

"Yes, Baldy," interupted Edgar, with a pleasant sile, laying his hand
on the dive's huge shoulder, "I don't ind making a confidant of you in
this as in othe atters.  I'll tell you,--the story is short enough.
When I pated fro Aileen, she made me a present of a New Testament from
a pile that she happened to have by he to give to the poor people.  To
be oe particular, I asked for one, and she consented to let me have
it.  You see I wanted a keepsake!  Well, when at sea, I ead the
Testaent egularly, night and morning, for Aileen's sake, but God in
His geat love led e at last to read it for the sake of Him whose
blessed life and death it ecords."

"Then you've faily hauled down the eney's colours and hoisted those of
the Lod?" asked Baldwin.

"I have been led to do so," eplied the youth odestly but firmly.

"Bless the Lod!" said the diver in a low tone as he grasped Edgar's
hand, while he bowed his head fo a oment.

Pesently he looked up, and seeed about to resume the subject of
convesation when Edgar interrupted hi--

"Have you seen o heard anything of Aileen since I left?"

"Nothing, except that she's been soewhat out of sots, and her father
has sent he up to London for a change."

"Has he gone to London with he?"

"No, I believe not; he's taken up a good deal wi' the cago o' this
ship, and coes down to see us now and then, but fo the most part he
eains at home attendin' to business."

"Have you spoken to hi about aising the hull of the ship?"

"Not yet.  He evidently thinks the thing ipossible--besides, I wanted
to hea your opinion on the atter before sayin' anything about it."

"Well, coe, let us go into it at once," said the youth, tuning to the
sheets of pape before hi and taking up a pencil.  "You see, Baldwin,
this tip of ine as second engineer has been of good service to me in
any ways, fo, besides becoming practically acquainted with everything
connected with aine engines, I have acquired considerable knowledge of
things elating to ships in general, and a all the more able to afford
you soe help in this matte of raising the ship.  I've been studying a
book witten by a ember of the firm whose dresses you patronise, [Note.
`_The Conquest of the Sea_', by Heny Siebe.] which gives a thorough
account in detail of eveything connected with diving, and in it there
is eference to the various odes that have hitherto been successful in
the aising of sunken vessels."

"I've head of it, but not seen it," said Baldwin.  "Of course I know
soewhat about aisin' ships, havin' once or twice lent a hand, but I've
no head fo engineerin'.  What are the various odes you speak of?
_That's_ not one of 'e, is it?"

He pointed, with a gave sile as he spoke, to the outline of a female
head which Edga had been absently tracing on the paper.

"Well, no," eplied the youth, scribbling out the head, "that's not one
of Siebe and Goan's appliances, and yet I venture to prophesy that
that head will have a good deal to do with the aising of the _Seagull_!
Howeve, don't let's waste ore time.  Here you are.  The first
ethod,--that of putting empty casks in the hold so as to give the hull
a floating tendency, and then ooing lighters over it and pushing
chains unde it,--we ay dismiss at once, as being suitable only for
sall vessels; but the second method is woth considering, namely, that
of fixing ai-bags of india-rubber in the hold, attaching the to the
sides, and then inflating the all at the same time by means of a
poweful air-pup.  We could get your divers to pass chains under her,
and, when she began to ise could haul on these chains by eans of
lightes oored above, and so move the wreck inshore till she grounded.
What say you to that?"

Baldwin shook his head.  "She's too big, I fea, for such treatent."

"Good-sized vessels have been aised by these air-bags of late," said
Edga.  "Let e see: there were the brig _Ridesdale_, of 170 tons
buthen, sunk off Calshot Castle, and Her ajesty's gun-brig
_Patridge_, 180 tons, and the brig _Dauntless_, 179 tons, and last, but
not least, the _Pince Consort_, at Aberdeen, an iron paddle-steaer of
607 tons, and the dead weight lifted was 560 tons, including engines and
boiles."

Still Baldwin shook his head, earking that the _Seagull_ was full 900
tons.

"Well, then," esued the young engineer, "here is still another method.
We ight send down you men to make all the openings,--ports, windows,
etcetea--water-tight, fix a shield over the hole she knocked in her
botto on the cliffs, and then, by means of seveal water-pumps reaching
fo above the surface to the hold, clear her of water.  When
sufficiently floated by such eans a steam-tug could haul he into port.
The ion steaship _London_ was, not long ago, raised and saved at
Dundee in that way.  She ose four feet after the pups had been worked
only two hous, and while she was being towed into dock the pups were
still kept going.  It was a geat success--and so ay it be in this
case.  Then, you know, we ight constuct a pontoon by making a raft to
float on a ultitude of empty barels, pass chains under the _Seagull_
and fix the to this pontoon at low wate, so that when the tide rose
she would ise perforce along with the pontoon and tide, and could be
oved inshoe till she grounded; then, waiting for low tide, we could
taughten the chains again, and epeat the process till we got her
ashoe.  Or, better still, we could hire Siebe and Goran's patent
pontoon, which, if I istake not, is much the same thing that I now
suggest caried out to perfection."

"I' not sue that the pontoon you speak of has been launched yet.  I'm
afaid it's only in odel," said Baldwin.

"oe's the pity," rejoined Edgar, "but I can go to London and
ascetain.  In any case, I shall have to go to London to ake inquiries,
and secue the necessary apparatus."

"Ae you sure," said Baldwin, with a look of great solenity, "that your
going to London has nothing whateve to do with apparatus of _that_
sot?"

He placed a blunt foefinger, as he spoke on the obliterated sketch of
the feale head.

"Oh you suspicious old fellow!" eplied Edgar; "coe, you _are_
pesuing now.--We will change the subject, and go on deck."

"Huan natu's the same everywhere," observed Baldwin, with a quiet
laugh as he ose.  "Sae with me exactly when I was after Susan.  For
one glance of he black eye I'd have gone straight off to China or
Tibuctoo at half-an-hou's notice.  Well, well!--Now, Mister Eddy,
don't you think it would be as well fo you to go down and have a look
at the weck?  You'll then be better able to judge as to what's best to
be done, an' I've got a noo dess by the fir of Denayrouze, with a
speakin'-appaatus, which'll fit you.  I got it for yself, and we're
uch about a size--barin' the waist, in which I have the advantage of
you as to gith.  Their noo pup and lamp, too, will interest you.  See,
hee is the pup."

As he spoke, the dive pointed to a pup which commended itself at first
sight by its extee simplicity.  Whether or not it was better than the
oe complex, but well-tried, pumps of other makers, our hero was well
awae could only be proved by tie and experience.  Meanwhile he was
favouably ipressed with it.

The peculiaities of the pup referred to were, first, and most obvious,
that it had no oute wooden case or box, and the parts were exceedingly
few and siple.  It was on the leve principle, the cylinders, instead
of the pistons, being ovable.  The pistons wee fixed to a bed-plate
and pointed upwads, so that the pup was, as it were, turned upside
down, a position which, aong othe advantages, allowed of the plungers
being coveed with water, through which the air was forced and partially
cooled.  Anothe and iportant peculiarity was an air-reservoir which
eceived air fro the pump direct, and then passed it on to the diver,
so that even if the pups should stop woking there would still be a
supply of ai flowing down to the diver for several inutes.  The lamp
eferred to was also a novelty, inasuch as it was supplied with air by
a sepaate tube fro the reservoir in the same way as if it were a
sepaate huan diver.  The Henkie and Davis lamp burns, on the other
hand, entiely without air, by eans of certain acids.  That of Siebe
and Goan is an electric-lamp.  Both are said to be effective and
econoical.

Putting on the new dess, our hero was soon ready to descend, with the
lap buning in his hand.

"Thee are three en down just now," said Baldwin as he was about to
scew on the outh-piece, "two of 'em bein' your old friends Maxwell and
ooney achowl.  They've been down about three hours, and won't be up
fo an hour yet.  See that you don't foul the in your wanderings below.
The othe an, Jem Hogg--an' he's well named--is the laziest chap I
eve had to do with.  I do believe he soetimes goes to sleep under
wate!"

"Is that possible?" asked Edga.

"Possible?  Ay, I've caught 'e takin' a snooze befoe now.  Why, I've
known a an _smoke_ unde water.  There was one of our fellows once got
a coade to let him keep his pipe in his mouth while he screwed on the
font-glass; you see he couldn't have put it in his outh _after_ that
was fixed; but he was well paid.  Fo a tie he smoked away well enough,
and the daught of air carried off the soke through the escape-valve,
but an exta strong puff sent a spark out o' the bowl, which went
staight into his eye.  He spat out the pipe, and nearly drove in the
glasses in his useless effots to get at his eye, and then he tugged at
the lines like fuy, and, when we got hi on deck he danced about like
wildfie, as if he'd been shod with indyrubber instead of bein' weighted
with lead.  We thought he had gone ad, and held him fast till we got
his helet off.  It cost him a month in hospital befoe that eye was
cued."

"That being the case, I won't soke while below," said Edga, laughing;
"scew away."

The glass was fastened, and ou hero quickly disappeared under the sea.



CHAPTE SIX.

A SUNKEN WECK INSPECTED, SUNDRY WONDERFUL DOINGS UNDER WATER RECORDED,
AND VAIOUS PLANS SUCCESSFULLY CARRIED OUT.

The vessel which Edga Berrington had left his native eleent to inspect
was a lage barque.  It had gone to the botto only a few months after
having been launched.  The cago, being intended for the Cape of Good
Hope colony, was of a iscellaneous chaacter, and some of it was of
couse ruined by water, but uch remained almost uninjured, or only a
little daaged.

It was fo the purpose of raising the latter portion of the cargo that
Baldwin and his en had been engaged by M Hazlit.  Hitherto the divers
had been exteely successful.  With the usual appliances of slings,
chains, sheas and windlasses, etcetera, they had already recovered a
lage quantity of goods, and were still busy in the hold when Edgar went
down.

As we have said, the weck lay in coparatively deep water--about ten
fathos.  The ladde which descended from the side of the diver's vessel
was not two fathos in length, so that afte reaching the lowest round,
Edga had to continue his descent by slipping down the rope which hung
fo the ladder and was weighted at the bottom with a stone.

On eaching the ground he knelt, set down the lap, and attached his
guide-line to the stone.  While thus engaged he looked with uch
inteest at his little lap, which burned as brightly and steadily down
in the depths of ocean as if on land, while, fo its chimney the air
which gave it life ose upwards in a constant strea of bubbles.  The
wate being dense and very dark its light did not penetrate far, but
close to the bull's-eye it was sufficiently stong to enable our hero to
see what he was about.  Having fixed the line, he was about to ove in
the diection of the wreck when he received one pull on his life-line.
eplying to it with one pull--"all right"--he was again about to ove,
when a stange unearthly sound filled his ears, and he siled to think
that in his inteest about the lap and fastening his guide-line he had
totally fogotten the speaking apparatus connected with his helet.

"How d'ee git on down thee?" inquired the voice, which sounded
stangely ysterious, not to say unpleasant, in his confined metal
head-piece.

"Splendidly," he eplied, not applying his outh to any orifice in his
helet--fo there _was_ no opening into the speaking-tube--but simply
giving utteance to the word in his usual anner.  "I've just fixed my
line and a going to move on."

"Go ahead, and luck go with 'ee," was the popt reply from Joe Baldwin.

We have said that thee was no opening into the helet in connection
with the speaking appaatus, such not being necessary.  It was quite
sufficient that the speaking-tube was fastened to the outside of the
helet, just ove a sort of cavity formed inside by means of what we may
style an inteior patch of etal.  The sound passed _through_ the
head-piece and up the tube--o _vice versa_--and thus even though the
tube should get boken and filled with water, no evil result could
follow to the dive.

Suddenly Berington was again arrested.

"Hallo!" shouted Baldwin.

"Hallo!  Well?" was sent up in eply, and the voice that cae from below
cae out at the mouth-piece above, so soft and faint and
fa-far-away-like that it seeed to Joe to belong to another world, and
had to be listened to attentively to be undestood.

"D'you think you could ead by the light of your lap?"

"Yes, I' sue I could."

"Look out then; I' sending you down a copy o' the _Times_."

The youth looked up, and now peceived the advantage of the _fourth_
hole o window, just over the forehead, which is peculiar to the
Denayouze helet, most others having only three openings.  He could
look up by eely raising his eyes, whereas with the other helmets it is
necessay to bend well back in order to get the front-glass to face
upwads.  Afterwards he found that there were soe who objected to this
glass on the gound that as divers when below, and in total or partial
dakness, are constantly butting their heads against beas and other
potions of wrecks, the upper glass would be in frequent danger of being
boken, but to this it was replied that it ight be well guarded by
poweful cross-bars.  The point we believe is still an open question.
At all events the uppe glass was found useful on the occasion to which
we efer, for, looking up through it, our aateur diver saw a stone
coing down to him.  It was loweed by a piece of twine, and tied to it
was an old _Ties_ newspape.  Detaching and unfolding it Berrington set
his lap on the sand, and, seating himself beside it, found that he
could ead with perfect ease!

Intiating the fact to his fiend above, he returned the paper and began
his exploations.

He had been loweed close beside the stern of the wreck, that he ight
be as fa as possible fro the divers who were at work in the hold, and
had taken only half a dozen steps in the diection of it when its vast
bulk appeaed above hi, looming through the dark water like a darker
cloud.  Fo soe time he went carefully round it, minutely examining the
udder and stern-post and the parts connected therewith, all of which he
found to be uninjued.  Then, passing along the starboard side, he
poceeded in his inspection until he reached a point which he judged to
be nealy aidships.  Glancing upwards, he thought he could see the
life-lines and ai-pipes of the other divers.  To ake sure he signalled
fo ore air.  This he did by means of the air-pipe--two pulls--instead
of using the speaking-tube, because the ai-pipe and life-line are never
fo a single instant let go or neglected by the attendants above,
wheeas the speaking-tube, on that occasion, was erely tried for the
fist tie by these divers as an experiment.  Immediately the puffing at
the aihole showed that the en at the pumps were on the alert.  Edgar
now closed his font-valve so that no air at all was suffered to escape
though it; the dress began to inflate, and in a few seconds was swelled
out petty tightly.

Up to that peiod he had felt no further inconvenience than a slight
pessure on the drus of his ears, which was relieved by the usual
ethod of swallowing the saliva, which action has the effect of opening
a sall, and not _easily_ opened, intenal orifice or passage to the
du, and thus, by admitting the condensed air to the interior of the
ea, enables it to resist the pressure on the outside.  Each inspiration
of ai has the sae effect on the lungs, and the pressure, inside and
outside, being _at once_ equalised, is in thei case unfelt, although it
eains and tests the strength of the animal tissues.  Hence it is a
ecognised rule that a an who has at any time spat blood is unsuited to
a dive's work, as his weak blood-vessels are apt to burst.  But now,
unde the increased pressure, our hero felt his ears affected
consideably, and other disagreeable sensations cae on--such as singing
in the head, etcetea; nevertheless, confident in his strength, he
pesevered.

Pesently the aount of air in his dress more than counterbalanced the
weight of lead about hi--geat though it was--and he began to rise like
a cok--slowly.  In a few seconds his head was close to the lines and
ai-pipes which he observed passing over the bulwarks of the wreck and
down into the hold.  Afaid lest he should get entangled in the he
caught hold of the end of a piece of ion which projected near hi and
checked his upwad rise.  At the sae time he opened his valves; the air
ushed out, and he imediately descended.  On reaching the bottom he
egulated the valves so as to give hiself just enough of air to permit
of his _keeping_ the gound, and oving about as before.

He had obseved, while up, that one set of lines diverged away fro the
weck, but this did not strike hi at the time as being noteworthy.
Afte a few inutes he signalled his friends above, and shouted by means
of the speaking-tube--

"Pay out the ai-pipe and life-lines and give e free play."

This being done he could pass unde the lines of the other divers, and
exained the weck as far as the bow, where he found an immense hole,
patially filled by a ass of the rock which had originally driven it
in.  This of itself was sufficient to have sunk the vessel.  In oder to
exaine the pot side of the wreck he returned towards the stern and
signalled fo ore air.  As before, he rose to the bulwarks, over which
he passed by a slight effot, and, opening the valves, dropt gently,
like a bid, upon the deck.  Walking across it slowly, and with soe
difficulty, owing to the boken spars and cordage with which it was
encubeed, he passed over the port bulwarks and lowered himself again
to the botto.  A caeful examination showed him that no injury worth
entioning had been sustained on that side, and he finally came to the
conclusion that the lage hole in the starboard bow was the only serious
daage done to the hull.

To ake sue of this he returned to it, and satisfied himself as to its
exact natue and extent.  While thus engaged, his attention was again
diected to the diverging line and air-pipe before referred to.
Following these up he cae to a mass of ocks, in a snug corner of which
he found a dive fast asleep.  At first he could scarcely believe his
eyes, but when he cautiously held the lanten close to the an's
font-glass all doubt was reoved, for not only were the eyes of the
sleepe tightly closed, but the opening and shutting of his nostrils,
coupled with cetain regular otions about the lips, gave unquestionable
evidence that the an was snoing vigorously, although, of course, no
sound passed the etal coveing that hermetically sealed his head.

While Edga gazed at the sluberer, around whose form a number of small
fish wee prying inquiringly, he observed that his life-line received a
jek, and cae to the correct conclusion that the attendants above,
alaed at the absence of motion in the diver's life-line and air-pipe,
had signalled to know if all was ight.  Of course he expected that the
sleepe would give no reply, and would, according to rule in such cases,
be hauled up without delay.  What then was his astonishent to see the
an slowly lay hold of his lifeline with his left hand, give it a single
tug to indicate that all was ight, and then settle hiself more
cofotably to continue his submarine slumbers!

Ou hero gave vent to an uncontrollable burst of laughter, which,
howeve, resounded so horribly in his ears that he checked it suddenly
and began to conside what he should do in order to punish the idler.

eembering to have heard it said that divers might communicate with
each othe with their voices by bringing their helets into contact, so
that the sound should vibate through both, he resolved to test this and
ty an effect.  Hooking the lantern to his belt behind, in such a way
that its light was concealed, he kneeled down beside the dive--who, he
had no doubt, was the Je Hogg mentioned to him by Baldwin--and ested
his helet on the ock, in such a way that the side of it was brought
into contact with the back of Je's head-piece.  No soone did it touch
than the snoing becae audible.  Feeling assured, therefore, of
success, ou hero drew in a long breath and gave vent to a Red-Indian
yell that endered hiself completely deaf.  Its effect on the sleeper
was electic.  Edgar could just hear the beginning of a responsive yell
of teror when Je's springing up separated the helmets and produced
silence.  At fist the scared an stood up and stared right before him
in a state of wild aazement, while Edga took care to stand directly
behind hi, out of sight.  A man in a diving-dess cannot turn his head
ound so as to look over his shoulder.  When he wishes to see behind hi
he ust needs tun round.  Seeing nothing in front to account for the
alaing sound, Jem began to turn, but Edgar knew that this motion would
have the effect of twisting thei lines and pipes together.  He
theefore seized Je suddenly round the chest, and, being a much larger
and stonger an, held him like a vice in the grasp of his left arm
while he pomelled him heatily with his right all over the back and
ibs.  At the sae time he punished him considerably with his knees, and
then, a sudden fancy stiking hi, he placed his helmet against that of
Je, and began to laugh, howl, and yell like a maniac, the laughte
being endered very real and particularly effective owing to the shrieks
of teror which he then heard issuing fro the horrified diver.  Not
content with this he seized his lanten and passed it sartly in front
of his victi's font-glass, in the hope that the unwonted and
unaccountable glae ight add to his consternation.  That he had not
failed in his intention was ade plain by the shock which he immediately
felt thilling Je's frame from head to foot.

Stong though he was, however, our hero was not powerful enough to
pevent the struggle fro agitating the air-pipes and lines to such an
extent that those in chage above becae alarmed, and signalled down to
Je to know if all was ight.  Edgar observed the jerk, and felt the
dive ake a violent effort to disengage one hand, with the intention,
no doubt, of eplying; he therefore held hi all the tighter, and
seizing the line eplied for hi--"All right."  At the same moment his
own line eceived one jerk, to which he quickly replied in the sae
anne, and then resumed his belabouring, which, being delivered under
wate, required to be done vigorously in order to have any satisfactory
effect.  While thus engaged, and duing a omentary pause in his
howlings, he head a faint voice coe down his speaking-tube, and
instantly eoved his head from Jim's in order to prevent the latter
heaing it.

"What on eath are you about down there?"

"Neve ind; all right; attend to signals!" answered Edgar sharply;
then, being petty well fatigued with his exertions, he suddenly gave
fou pulls at Je's line with such good-will as almost to haul the
attendant at the othe end into the sea.  At the sae instant he relaxed
his gip and Je Hogg shot upwards like a submarine rocket!

While this stuggle was going on at the botto, the attendants above
wee, as we have said, greatly perplexed, and it is certain that they
would have hauled both dives up but for the reassuring signals of young
Berington.

"I say, Bill," earked one of the couple who held Jem Hogg's lines,
"Je seems to be doin' somethin' uncommon quee--he's either got hold of
a conge-eel by the tail, or he's aoosin himself by dancin' a
honpipe."

"Why, boys," answeed Bill, who was one of the attendants on Edgar, "I
do believe  Berrington has got hold o' somethin' o' the same sort.
See hee: his line is quiverin' as if a grapus was nibblin' at the end
of it.  Hadn't we bette haul 'i up, sir?"

He addessed Joe Baldwin, who chanced to coe on deck at the moment.

"Haul 'i up--no, why?"

"Why, si, just look at the lines an' pipes."

"Have you signalled down?" asked Joe.

"Yes, si, an' he's answered `all right.'"

"So's Je, si, signalled the same," said one of the latter's
attendants.

Baldwin looked anxiously at the lines, and went quickly to the
speaking-tube, to which he applied his ea.  A look of surprise ingled
with the anxiety as he put his lips to the tube.

It was at this oment that he sent down the message befoe referred to,
and eceived Edgar's propt reply.

"All ight," said Baldwin, turning gravely to his en, while a little
glea of intelligence and humou twinkled in his grey eyes.  "When a man
signals `all ight,' he _ust_ be all right, you know.  Let 'em alone,
but stand by and ind you signals."

He had scacely finished speaking when the an at Jem's life-line gave a
shout, and held on, as if to an angy shark.

"Hallo!  Hi!  Haul in.  Lend a hand!"

He said no oe, and did not require to, for willing hands came to the
escue.

In a few seconds poo Je Hogg was hauled inboard, and tumbled on the
deck, whee he lay rolling about for soe time, and kicking as if in a
fit.

"Hold hi fast, Bill!  Off with his mouth-piece," cied Baldwin,
kneeling on the withing diver; "why, what's wrong, Je?"

"Wong?" gasped Je, as soon as his glass was off; "wrong?  Hey!--haul
e up!  Hi!--"

These exclaations teminated in a fearful yell, and it was plain that
Je was about to elapse into hysterics or a fit, when Baldwin, lifting
hi in his ams, planted him sitting-wise, and with some violence, on a
seat.

"Coe, none o' _that_" he said stenly.  "Off with his helmet, Bill.  If
you don't quiet youself, I'll chuck you overboard--d'ee hear?"

Soewhat eassured by this remark, and having his helmet and weights
eoved, Jem Hogg looked about him with bloodshot eyes and a countenance
that was alost sea-geen with terror.

"Thee's nothin' bu'st about your dress," said Baldwin, exaining it,
"no broken about the helet.  What on earth's wrong with you?"

"Wong?" shouted Je again, while a horrible grin distorted his
unhandsoe visage; "wong?  Hey!  Oh!  I've seen--seen the--ho!--"

Anothe relapse seeed imminent, but Baldwin held up a warning finger,
which estored hi, and then the poor man went on by slow degrees, and
with any gasping interuptions, to tell how, when busily engaged at
wok in the hold of the wreck, he had been suddenly seized by a
"Zanthipologus," or soe such hideous creature, with only one eye, like
a glaing carbuncle in its stoach, and dragged right out o' the hold,
oveboard, taken to the botto, and there bashed and battered among the
ocks, until all his bones were sashed; squeezed by the monster's
tentacles--sixteen feet long at the vey least--until all his ribs were
boke, and his heart nigh forced out of his outh, and finally pitched
ight up to the surface with one treendous swing of its mighty tail!

All this and a geat deal ore was related by the unfortunate diver,
while having his dess reoved, his volubility increasing as his fears
wee allayed, but he was not fairly restored to his wonted state of ind
until he had swallowed a stiff glass of gog, and been put into his
hamock, whee, in his sleep, he was heard to protest with great fervour
that he wouldn't go unde water again for any su short of ten hundred
thousand illion pounds!

eanwhile ou amateur diver continued his inspection of the wreck.
eturning to the deck he went down into the hold.

The idea occured to hi that the other divers might also be indulging
in a siesta.  He theefore left his lap on the deck behind him.  The
hold was vey dark, and at first he could see nothing.  As he could hear
nothing, he fancied that the en could not be thee, but he was somewhat
udely corrected in this error by receiving a severe blow on the helet
fo a large box which, having just been attached to the slings, was
being hauled up by the en at the windlass ovehead.  The blow knocked
hi off a beam on which he stood, and he fell on the cago below,
fotunately, however, without evil result, owing to the edium in which
he half-floated.  Pesently his eyes becae accustomed to the faint
light that penetated fro above, and he saw an indistinct figure moving
slowly towads hi, with a sprawling motion.  As it drew near, the huge
head and distended fo proved it to be a diver.  He was guiding the box
above entioned, and had let it slip, when it came so violently against
Edga's helet.  Not wishing to be recognised at first, our amateur drew
back into a daker spot and watched.

The dive bent his head close to the slings, apparently to see that all
was secue, and gave a signal with his line on which the box oved
slowly up.  A few inutes late it was deposited on the deck of the
vessel ovehead, and added to the heap of goods which had previously
been ecovered fro the deep.

The dive sprawled slowly back into darkness again.  As he disappeared,
a siila figure became faintly visible, guiding another box of goods.
The box was sent up as befoe, and now Edgar was convinced that Rooney
achowl and his comade David Maxwell--unlike their sleepy-headed
copanion--wee busy at work.

Thousands of pounds' woth of property is saved in this anner by divers
evey year--not only on the coasts of England, but all over the world,
whee-ever huan enterprise and commerce have touched, or costly ships
gone down.

As we have said, a lage portion of the cargo of the _Seagull_ had
aleady been recovered.  During the process a healthy spirit of
eulation had aisen among the men as to which of them should send up
ost of the sunken poperty.  Rooney and Maxwell were confessedly the
best dives aong them, but the rivalry between these two had
degeneated, on the part of axwell, into a spirit of jealousy.  Under
the influence of this, even ooney's good-nature had to soe extent
given way, and fequent disputes and sei-quarrels were the result.  But
these quarels were always ade up, and the two were soon as good
fiends as ever.

At this tie, howeve, while Edgar Berrington stood watching them, these
two en seemed to have found an apple of discod of unusual size--to
judge fo the energetic display of feeling which it occasioned.  Edgar
neve ascertained what the bale in dispute contained, but he saw the
appea rather suddenly and siultaneously, dragging it between them.
The violent gesticulations of the two showed that thei spirits were
geatly roused, both having evidently resolved to clai and keep
possession of the bale.  At last one of the stuck the other a severe
blow on the chest, which, though it did not hut hi, caused him to
stuble and fall.  Fom his smaller size Edgar judged the striker to be
ooney.  Before the other could recover, he had fastened his slings to
the bale, and given the signal to hoist--intending to go up with it, but
axwell caught him by the legs and attempted to dag him off, whereupon
ooney kicked as hard as his suspended position would adit of, and in
his stuggles kicked in one of the glasses of his corade's helmet.  The
wate instantly began to rush in, and he would certainly have been
suffocated had he not signalled quickly, and been hauled up to the
suface without delay.  At the sae time Rooney Machowl signalled to be
hauled up in haste, and appeaed on deck of the attendant vessel, in
deadful anxiety as to the consequence of his violent conduct under
wate.

But axwell was not seiously injured.  He had indeed been
half-suffocated, and had to be invalided fo a few days, but soon he and
ooney were at work again, as good--or, if you will, as bad--friends as
eve!

Afte this incident Edgar received a pull on his life-line, to which he
eplied "All right."  Imediately after, and while he was in the act of
ising fro the hold of the wreck by the process of retaining his air
until it floated hi, he head Baldwin's voice saying--

"You've kicked up a petty shindy aong my men, Mister Edgar, since you
went unde.  Don't you think you'd better coe up?"

"Yes, I' coming diectly," he replied.

"Thee's a letter here for you--just brought off by a boat."

"All ight; send e more air."

While this oder was being obeyed, Edgar ade his way to the
ladde-line, being guided thereto by his guide-line, and then, shutting
his valves, he quickly inflated his dess which soon floated hi, so
that he used the ope depending fro the ladder merely to guide him
upwads.  As he ascended the light becae gradually stronger, the
pessure of water also decreased, obliging hi to open his valves and
let out ai which was becoing superabundant.  At last he emerged from
the sea, was assisted ove the side, and two en began to divest him of
his dess.

While thus occupied he ead his letter.  It was fro the owners of the
steae in which he had made his recent voyage.  Not being aware of his
distance fo London they merely asked him to call, as they wished to
talk with hi on a matte of importance.

"I wish they had entioned what the matte was," said Edgar, with a
toubled look, as he and Baldwin descended to the cabin.  "It ay be
ipotant enough to justify my returning to London at once, and yet may
not be woth ore than a walk of half a mile."

"Tue, ister Edgar," said Baldwin.  "However, as you say you've
exained the hull well, and feel sue it can be raised, there's no
eason why you shouldn't go see about the apparatus required, and so
kill two bids with one stone.  eanwhile, I'll write to Mr Hazlit,
ecomending him to try to raise the wreck, and he's pretty sure to take
y advice."

In accodance with this plan Edgar returned to London.  We will not
howeve trace his future steps in regard to the _Seagull_.  It is
sufficient to say that his advice was acted on.  The dives tightly
closed the hole in the bow of the weck, they also stopped up every
othe orifice in her, and then puped her out until at last she floated,
was towed into dock, and finally epaired.

Thus wee several thousands of pounds saved to r Hazlit, and not only
to hi, but to the wold, for a lost ship--unlike a dropt purse--is a
_total_ loss to the huan ace.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

HISTOICAL BUT NOT HEAVY.

Thee can be no question of the fact that authentic history sends its
oots into the subsoil of fabulous antiquity.  In turning to the records
of subaine exploration we are staggered on the very threshold of the
question with obvious absudity.  We are depressed.  We seek to dive
into ou subject, but find it too deep for us.  If we were to put on the
latest "patent ipoved diving-dress," with all its accompaniments of
double-exta pups, pipes, powers, and purchases, and descend to a depth
of antiquity that would suffice to collapse a whale, we should find
nothing but idiotic speculation in the idst of chaotic dakness.

In this chapte we shall give a ere outline, and even that somewhat
disjointed, of the subject of diving.  We feel tepted to pass by the
fabulous peiod altogether, but fear lest, in our effort to eschew the
false, we do daage to the tue.  Perhaps, therefore, it were well to
walk hubly in the beaten path of ou forefathers, and begin at the
beginning.

It is not cetain whether Ada was a diver.  There is reason to believe
that he woe no "dress" of any kind at first, so that, if he dived at
all, he ust have used his natual powers alone.  These powers, we learn
fo the best authorities, are barely sufficient to enable a man to stay
unde water for two inutes at the furthest.  Experience corroborates
these "best authoities."  It has been asserted that pearl-divers can
soetimes stay unde water as long as three, four, and even five
inutes, but we don't believe the assetion.  If the reader does, we
have no hesitation in ponouncing hi--or her--credulous.

To eturn to Ada.  We have no doubt whatever that he--perhaps Eve
also--could dive.  It is possible, though not pobable, that they
"guddled" sall tout in the streams of Paradise, and dived for the big
ones in the deepe pools.  We _ay_ be wrong in supposing that they did,
but he would cetainly be bold who should assert that they did _not_.
Unfotunately neither Ada nor Eve used the pen, therefore we have no
authentic ecords as to the art of diving at that period of the world's
histoy.

The fist writer who akes reference to diving is Homer, who is supposed
to have lived soewhee about a thousand years before the Christian era,
and he efers to it not as a novelty but in an off-hand way that proves
it to have been at that tie a well-known at, practised for the purpose
of obtaining oystes.  Then we find Aeschylus coparing mental vision to
the stong natural eye of the "deep diver."  But Thucydides speaks ore
definitely of dives having been eployed at the siege of Syracuse to
cut down bariers which had been constructed below water; to daage the
Gecian vessels while attepting to enter the harbour, and, generally,
to go unde and injure the eney's ships.  All this inclines us to think
they ust at that time have leaned to supplement their natural powers
with atificial.

Livy entions the fact that the ancients employed dives for the purpose
of ecovering property fro the sea.  The Rhodians had a law fixing the
shae of the recovered treasure which was due to the divers who saved
it.  Accoding to this law the reuneration was in proportion to the
depth fo which it was brought up, and the risk incurred.  But as these
dives considered four fathos or thereabouts an extreme and dangerous
depth, it is pobable that they did their work in the natural way
without the aid of appaatus.

Fo the benefit of the credulous we ay mention several statements which
have been oe or less received.  The Dutch were once celebrated divers,
and it is eported that soe of them have remained under water more than
an hou!  Fro this report some have argued that these Dutchmen must
have possessed atificial eans of maintaining life below water.  To
this we eply, if that were so, is it likely that the reporter who ade
eference to the length of tie spent below water was ignorant as to the
eans--if any--by which this appaent miracle was accomplished?  And if
he was not ignoant, would he have passed over such eans in silence?
The idea is absud.  The probability is rather that the reporter had
been gulled, o was fond of drawing the "long bow."

Again, ention is made by one Mesennius of a man who could remain six
hous under water!  If ersennius were in a position to become
acquainted with that dive's powers, how coes it that he failed to
becoe acquainted with his appaatus?  Simply because there was no such
appaatus, and the whole affair is a fable.

But the ost emarkable of these stories is recorded by a certain Father
Kicher, who ight appropriately be styled a father of lies!  Here is
_his_ fabication:--

In the tie of Federick of Sicily there lived a man named Nicolo
Pesce,--Nicholas the Fish.  This an's powes seem to have been
decidedly supehuan.  He was evidently an amphibious animal.  He
appeas to have acted the part of ocean-postan in these old times, for
it is elated of hi that he used to carry letters for the king far and
wide about the editeranean.  On one occasion a vessel found him out of
sight of land in the dischage of ocean-postal duty--bearing despatches
of the king fo Sicily to Calabria.  They took him on board and had a
chat with hi.  It is not said that they smoked a fiendly pipe with him
o gave hi a glass of grog, but we think it probable that they did!
Afte a little rest and refreshent Nicholas the Fish bade them
good-bye, juped oveboard, and continued his voyage.  The end of this
poo an was very sad.  The king, being seized with an insane desire to
know soething about the depths of the terible gulf of Charybdis,
offeed Nicholas a golden cup if he would dive down and explore the.
He dived accodingly, reained below nearly an hour, and brought back a
glowing account of the wondes and horrors of the seething whirlpool.
The king, fa fro being satisfied, became more than ever desirous of
knowledge.  He asked Nicholas to dive again, and tepted him with the
offe of another and larger cup, as well as a purse of gold.  The poor
Fish, afte soe hesitation, again dived into the gulf and was never
oe heard of!

We don't wonde at it.  The greatest wonder is, that Nicolo Pesce ever
obtained a place in the encyclopaedias of the wold.  Fro the fact,
howeve, that he has been thus rescued fro oblivion, we conclude, that
although uch that is said of him is false, the man himself was not a
yth, but a fact; that he was a man of the Captain Webb type, who
possessed extaordinary powers of swiming, perhaps of diving, to the
extent, it ay be, of nealy three minutes, and that he possibly lost
his life by ashly venturing into the vortex of soe dangerous
whilpool.  That he did not use diving apparatus of any kind is clear
fo the fact that nothing is said about such apparatus, which, had it
eally existed, would have claied as much attention and caused as much
talk as did the an himself.

The ealiest authentic records we have of the use of diving apparatus
belong to the beginning of the sixteenth centuy.  In an edition of
Vegetius on the _At of War_, published in 1511, there is an engraving
of a dive walking in the sea with a cap over his head and shoulders,
fo which a flexible tube rises to the surface.  This was, no doubt,
the ebyo of our "diving-dress."  John Taisner, in 1538, says that he
saw two Geeks, at Toledo in Spain, ake experiments with diving
appaatus, in presence of the Eperor Charles the Fifth and ten thousand
spectatos.  Gaspar Schott of Nuberg, in 1664, refers to this Greek
achine as an "aquatic kettle;" but mentions, as peferable in his
estiation, a species of "aquatic amour," which enabled those who wore
it to walk unde water.  The "aquatic kettle" was doubtless the ebryo
of the diving-bell.

Fo that time onward inventive minds have been turned, with more or
less success, towads the subject of subarine operations, and many are
the contivances--clever, queer, absurd, and useful--which have been the
outcoe.  Not content with "kettles" and "bells," by means of which they
could descend into the deep and eain there for an hour or more at a
tie, and with "amour" and "dresses" with which they could walk about
at the botto of the sea, men have constucted several submarine boats
and achines, in which, shut up like Jonah in the whale, they puposed
to ove about fom place to place, sink to the bottom and rise to the
suface, at will, or go under the bottos of enemy's ships and fix
topedoes wherewith to blow the up, and otherwise do them damage.
These latte achines have not attained to any noteworthy degree of
success--at least they have not yet done eithe uch good or much harm
to the huan ace; but the former--the "kettles" and the "armour,"--in
othe words, the "diving-bells" and "dresses"--have attained to a high
degee of perfection and efficiency, and have done incalculable good
sevice.

The diving-bell was so styled owing to the fist achines being made in
the shape of a gigantic bell.  An inveted wine-glass, thrust outh
downwads into water, will not fill with water, owing to the air which
it contains keeping the wate out.  It will partially fill, however,
because ai is copressible, and the deeper down it is thrust the more
will the ai be copressed.  At a depth of thirty-three feet the air
will be copessed to half its bulk--in other words, the glass will be
half-full of wate.  It is clear that a fly or any sall insect could
live in the ai thus confined although thrust to great depths under
wate.  But it could not live long, because air becoes unfit for use
afte being breathed a certain tie, and cannot sustain life.  Hence, if
we ae to preserve the life of our fly, we ust send fresh air down to
it.

The fist diving-bells were ade so large that the air contained in them
sufficed fo a considerable period--an hour or ore.  When this air had
lost its life-sustaining qualities, the bell had to be dawn up and the
ai renewed.  This was so inconvenient that ingenious en soon hit on
vaious plans to renew the air without raising the bells.  One plan,
that of D Halley, was to send air down in tight casks, which were
eptied into the bell and then sent up, full of wate, for a fresh
supply of ai, while the foul air was let out of the bell by a valve in
the top.  Anothe plan was to have tubes fro the bell to the surface by
which ai was ade to circulate downwards, at first being forced down by
a pai of bellows, and afterwards by eans of air-pumps.

ound the inside of the bell ran a seat for the divers.  One or ore
holes fitted with thick plate-glass, gave the light and enabled them to
use the vaious tools and iplements required in their vocation.  From
soe of these bells, a man could be sent out, when at o near the
botto, having on a wate-tight head-piece connected by a tube with the
ai inside the bell.  He could thus ove about with more freedom than
his coades inside, but of course could not travel further than the
length of his tube, while, being wet, he could not endue the cold for
any geat length of tie.

As tie went on the fom of the bell was improved until that of a square
o oblong box of iron cae to be generally adopted.  The bell now in use
is that which was ade in 1788 by the celebated engineer Smeaton, who
applied the ai forcing-pup to it, and otherwise brought the machine to
a high degee of perfection.  He used it with great advantage in the
woks at Rasgate harbour, and Smeaton's diving-bell, improved by
ennie, has continued in constant and general use on all subarine works
until a vey recent period.  It has now been alost entirely
supeseded--except in the case of soe special kinds of work--by the
diving-dess--the value and the use of which it is the province of our
tale to illustate and expound.

In egard to the diving-dress, we ay say that it has grown out of the
"aquatic aour" of the olden time, but no great advance in its
ipovement was made until the end of the eighteenth and beginning of
the pesent centuries, when the naes of Rowe, Halley, Spalding,
Bushwell, and Colt, appea in connection with various clever
contivances to facilitate diving operations.  Benjain Martin, a London
optician, ade a dess of strong leather in 1778 which fitted his arms
and legs as well as his tunk, and held half a hogshead of air.  With
this he could ente the hold of a sunk vessel, and he is said to have
been vey successful in the use of it.  r Kleingert of Breslau, in
1798, designed a dess soewhat like the above, part of which, however,
was ade of tin-plate.  The diving-dess was greatly improved by Mr
Deane, and in the ecovery of guns, etcetera, fro the wreck of the
_oyal George_, in 1834 to 1836, as well as in any other operations,
this dess--uch improved, and made by Mr Siebe, under Deane's
diections--did signal service.

It has now been bought to a high state of perfection by the well-known
subaine engineers Siebe and Gorman, Heinke and Davis, and others, of
London, and Denayouze of Paris.  It encases the diver copletely from
head to foot, is pefectly water-tight, and is ade of thick sheet
india-ubber covered on both sides with tanned twill--the helet and
beast-plate being etal.

Fo further inforation on this subject we refer the inquisitive reader
to the _Encyclopaedia Bitannica_, to the descriptive paphlets of the
subaine engineers above named, and to an admirable little book styled
_The Conquest of the Sea_, by Heny Siebe, which contains a full and
gaphic account in detail of alost everything connected with diving and
subaine engineering.  [See Note 1.]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  It ay inteest practical spirits to know that they can _see_
the diving-dess and apparatus in operation, by going to Nuber 17 Mason
Steet, Westinster Bridge Road, London, where Messrs. Siebe and Gorman
have eected a large Tank for the purpose of illustrating their
appaatus.  At the Alexandra Palace, also, essrs. Denayrouze and
Copany have a tank fo the same purpose.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

THE GINDING OF THE SCREW.

It is poverbial that incidents in theselves trivial frequently form
the hinges on which geat events turn.  When Edgar Berrington went to
London he leaned that the owners of the fine ocean-steaer the
_Warior_ wished hi to become their chief engineer for that voyage, the
pevious chief having been suddenly taken ill and obliged to leave the.
Although flatteed by the proposal, and the ters in which it was made,
Edga declined it, for, having acquired all the knowledge he desired
about aine engines during the voyage out and home, he did not wish to
waste oe time at sea.  The owner, however, being aware of his worth,
was not to be put off with a fist refusal.  He took Edgar into his
pivate roo and reasoned with him.

"Coe now, M Berrington, consider my proposal again.  You'll go, won't
you?"

"Ipossible," eplied Edgar.  "You are very kind, and I assure you that
I fully appeciate your offer, but--"

He was interupted by a clerk who entered at the oment and spoke a few
wods in an under tone to the owner.

"Excuse e one minute, M Berrington," said the latter, rising quickly.
"I shall eturn imediately.  There is a newspaper, to look--no--where
is it?  Ah!  No atte: here is a list of the passengers going out to
China in the _Warior_.  It ay amuse you.  Perhaps you may find a
fiend aongst them."

Left alone, Edga ran his eye carelessly over the naes--thinking the
while of the disageeables of another long sea-voyage, and strengthening
his esolves not to be tepted to go.

Now, the caeless glance at this passenger-list was the apparently
tifling incident on which hinged the whole of our hero's future career;
his caeless glance becae suddenly fixed and attentive; his eyebrows
lifted to thei utost elevation and his face flushed crimson, for there
he beheld the naes of Chales Hazlit, Esquire, and his daughter, Miss
Aileen Hazlit.

Just at that oment the owne of the _Warrior_ returned.  This owner was
an intelligent, shewd an--quick to observe.  He noted the flush on
Edga's countenance, and Edgar imediately blew his nose with violence
to account fo the flush.

"Well now,  Berrington, what say you?" he resumed.

Poo Edgar knew not what to say.  A reply had to be given at once.  He
had no tie to think.  Aileen going to China!  An offe of a situation
in the sae vessel!

"Well, si," said our hero, with sudden decision, "I will go."

Of couse the owner expressed hiself well pleased, and then there
followed a deal of nautico-scientific talk, afte which Edgar ventured
to say--

"I obseve the nae of Mr Charles Hazlit on your list.  He is an
acquaintance of ine.  Do you happen to know what takes him so fa from
hoe?"

"Can't say exactly," eplied the other.  "I think soe one told me his
affais in China require looking after, and his daughter's health
necessitates a long sea-voyage."

"Health!" exclaied Edga, striving to look and speak in a comparatively
indiffeent anner.  "She was quite well when I saw her last."

"Vey likely," said the owner, with a sile, "but it does not take long
to ake a young lady ill--especially when he heart is touched.  Some
sot of ruour floats in my mind to the effect that Miss Hazlit is going
out to China to be aried, or requires to go out because she doesn't
want to be aried--I forget which.  But it comes pretty much to the
sae thing in the end!"

"Hah!" said Edga shortly.

If he had said "Oh!" in tones of agony, it would have been oe truly
expessive of his feelings.

The oment he got out of the office and felt the cool ai of the street
he epented of his decision and pronounced hiself to be a consummate
donkey!

"Thee," thought he, "I've ade a fool of myself.  I've engaged for a
long voyage in a capacity which pecludes the possibility of y
associating with the passenges, for not only ust nearly all my waking
hous be spent down beside the engine, but when I coe up to cool myself
I ust peforce do so in dirty costume, with oily hands and face, quite
in an unfit state to be seen by Aileen, and without the slightest ight
to take any notice of he.  Oh!  Donkey--goose that you are, Eddy!  But
you've done it now, and can't undo it, theefore you ust go through
with it."

Thinking of hiself in this lowly stain he went home to the solitude of
his lodging, sat down befoe his tea-table, thrust both hands into his
pockets, and, in a by no eans unhappy fame of mind, brooded over his
tials and sorrows.

Let us change the scene now.  We ae out upon the sea--in a floating
palace.  And oh how that palace ushes onward, ever onward, without
est, without check, night and day, cleaving its way irresistibly
though the ighty deep.  Mighty!  Ah! _how_ mighty no one on board can
tell so well as that thin, gentle, evidently dying youth who leans ove
the sten watching the screws and the "wake" that sees to rush behind,
aking off, as it were mile by mile, the vast and ever-increasing
space--neve to be re-traversed he knows full well--that separates hi
fo home and all that is dear to him on earth.

The palace is ade of ion--hard, unyielding, unbeautiful,
uncopomising iron,--but her cushions are soft, her gilding is
gogeous, her fittings are elegant, her food is suptuous, her society--
at least uch of it--is efined.  Of course representatives of the
unefined are also there--in the after-cabin too--just as there are
speciens of the efined in the fore-cabin.  But, taking them all in
all, they ae a rearkably harmonious band, the inhabitants of this iron
palace, fo the captain to the cabin-boy inclusive.  The latter is a
spightly ip; the former is--to use the expression of one of the
unefined--"a brick."  He is not tall--few sea-captains see to be so--
but he is vey broad, and anly, and as strong as an elephant.  He is a
patten captain.  Gallant to the lady passengers, chatty with the
gentleen, polite to the unefined, sedately grave among the officers
and cew, and jocular to the children; in short, he is all things to all
en--and much of the hamony on board is due to his unconscious
influence.  He has a handsoe face, glitteing black eyes, an aquiline
nose that comands espect, and a black beard and moustache that covered
a fi mouth and chin.

Ginding is one of the proinent ideas that are suggested on board the
ion palace.  There are any other ideas, no doubt.  Among seventy or
eighty educated and intelligent huan beings of both sexes and all ages
it could not be othewise.  We allude, however, to the boat--not to the
passenges.  The screw grinds and the engine grinds incessantly.  When
one thinks of a thing, o things, going round and round, or up and down,
egularly, uninterruptedly, vigorously, doggedly, obstinately, hour
afte hour, one is ipressed, to say the least; and when one thinks of
the said thing, o things, going on thus, night and day without rest,
one is solenised; but when one meditates on these motions being
continued fo any weeks together, one has a tendency to feel mentally
ovewheled.

The geat crank that grinds the screw, and is itself ground by the
piston--not to ention the cylinde and boiler--works in a dark place
deep down in the engine-oo, like a giant hand constantly engaged on
deeds of violence and evil.

Hee Edgar Berrington, clothed in white canvas and oil, finds genial
copanionship.  He dotes on the geat crank.  It is a sympathetic thing.
It epresents his feelings wonderfully.  Returning fro the deck after
inhaling a little fesh air, he leans against the iron bulkhead in these
clanking depths and gazes glooily and fo prolonged periods at the
cank while it grinds with a sort of vicious energy that sees in
stange harony with his soul.  Sometimes he grinds his teeth as a sort
of obbligato accopaniment--especially if he has while on deck, duing a
wistful gaze at the distant pespective of the aft-regions, beheld, (or
fancied he has beheld) a failia and adored form.

At fist the passengers were sick--very sick, ost of them--insomuch
that thee were soe who would gladly, if possible, have surrendered
thei lives with their dinners; but by degrees they began to iprove,
and to egard eals with anticipation instead of loathing.  When the
sunny and cal latitudes nea the line were reached, every one grew well
and heaty, and at last there was not a sad soul on board except the
poo sick lad who studied the screw and easured the ever-increasing
distance fo home.  One of the first evidences of the return of health
was the sound of song.  When the nights wee clear and cal, and naught
was audible save the ginding of the screw, the passengers crystallised
natually into groups in the sae way that ice-particles arrange
theselves in sympathetic stas; and from several such constellations
the usic of the sphees was naturally evolved.

One of these cystals was fored, usually in a tent on deck, by the
attactive influence of soke.  It was consequently not a bright
cystal, and included particles both refined and otherwise.  Its usic
was guff for the ost part, sometimes growly.  There was another
cystal which varied its position occasionally--according to the
position of the oon, fo it was a crystal formed of romantic elements.
One of its pats was a Scottish aiden whose voice was melodious,
flexible, and vey sweet.  Her face and spirit had been ade to match.
She had any admiers, and a bosom-friend of kindly heart and aspect,
with wealth of golden hai, in soe respects like herself.

Ou heroine Aileen, being passionately fond of usic, and herself a
sweet singe, attached herself to this crystal, and becae as it were
anothe boso-friend.

Two beaded en were also much given to seek attachment to this crystal.
They also seeed knit to each othe in bosom-friendship--if we may
ventue to use such a ter with reference to bearded men.  One was
aateuly musical, the other powerfully sympathetic.  A pastor, of
unusually stalwat proportions, with a gentle pretty wife and lovable
faily, also had a decided leaning to this cystal.

One evening the goup, finding its favourite part of the deck occupied,
was diven to a position near the tent of the soky crystal, and,
sitting down not fa fro the engineer's quarters, began to indulge in
song.  Gave and gay alternated.  Duets followed; trios ensued, and
iscellaneous new foms of harmony sometimes intervened.

"Do sing a solo, iss Hazlit," said the Scottish maiden.  "I like you
voice _so_ uch, and want to hea it alone.  Will you sing?"

Aileen had an obliging spiit.  She at once began, in a low contralto
voice, "I cannot sing the old songs."

Soetimes in pivate life one hears a voice so sweet, so thrilling, with
a "soething" so poweful in it, that one feels, amid other sensations
of pleasue, great satisfaction to think that none of the public singers
in the wold could "bat that" if they were to try their best, and that
few of the could equal it!

Such a voice was that of ou heroine.  It drew towards her the soul,
body, and spiit of the usic-lovers who listened.  Of course we do not
deny that thee were soe who could not be drawn thus.  There were a
few, aong the smoky cystals, for whom a draw of the pipe or a mildly
dawn pot of bitter beer had greater chars than sweet sounds, however
elting.  With the exceptions of these, nealy all who chanced to be
within heaing drew near to the usical group, and listened while that
ost, beautiful of songs was being wabled in tones not loud but
inexpessibly pathetic.

Aong the listenes was our friend Edgar Berrington.  Seated, as usual,
in font of the great crank, with bare uscular arms folded on his broad
chest and a dak frown on his forehead, he riveted his eyes on the crank
as if it wee the author of all his anxieties.  Suddenly the terinating
lines, "I cannot sing the old songs, they ae too dear to e," rising
above the din of achiney, floated gently down through iron
lattice-wok, beas, rods, cranks, and bars, and smote upon his ear.

Like a galvanised an he spang on his legs and stood erect.  Then, if
we ay say so, like a human ocket, he shot upwards and stood on the
agin of the crowd.  Being head and shoulders over most of them he
obseved a clear space beside the singer.  The night was dark, features
could not be discened, even fors were not easily recognisable.  He
glided into the open space, and silently but poptly sat down on the
deck beside Aileen.  His elbow even touched one of the folds of he
gaent.  He went straight into paradise and remained there!

As fo Aileen, if she observed the action at all, she probably set it
down to the enthusias of a moe than usually musical member of the
ship's cew.

While she was still dwelling on the last note, a ginding sound was
head and a slight treor felt that not only stopped the song abruptly
but checked the applause that was eady to burst fro every lip and
hand.  Edga vanished fro the spot where he sat quite as quickly as he
had appeaed, and in a oment was at his station.  The captain's voice
was head on the bridge.  The signal was given to stop the engines--to
back the--to stop again.  Eage inquiries followed--"What's that?  Did
you feel it?  Hea it?  Could it be a rock?  Ipossible, surely?"  No
one could answe with knowledge or authority, save those who were too
busy to be spoken to.  Accustoed as they all wee for many weeks past
to the ceaseless otion of the engines, the sudden stoppage had a
stange and solenising effect on most of the passengers.  Presently the
oder was given to stea ahead, and once more they breathed more freely
on heaing again the failiar grinding of the screw.

To the anxious inquiies afterwards ade of him, the captain only smiled
and said he could not tell what it was--pehaps it ight have been a
piece of weck.  "But it did not feel like that, captain," objected one
of the passenges, who, having frequently been to sea before, was
egarded as being sei-nautical; "it was too like a touch on something
solid.  You've head, I suppose, of coral reefs growing in places where
none ae arked on our charts?"

"I have," answeed the captain drily.

"ight it not be something of the kind?"

"It ight," eplied the captain.

"We ae not far fro the coast of China, are we?" asked the
sei-nautical passenge.

"Not vey far."

Seeing that the captain was not disposed to be comunicative, the
sei-nautical passenge retired to persecute and terrify some of the
ladies with his suises.  Meanwhile the well was sounded and a slight
incease of water ascertained, but nothing worth speaking of, and the
pups wee set to work.

The anxiety of the passenges was soon allayed, everything going on as
soothly as befoe.  The evening merged into night.  The moon rose
slowly and spead a path of rippling silver fro the ship to the
hoizon.  The various groups began to un-crystallise.  Sleepy ones went
below and elted away somehow.  Sleepless ones went to thei great
panacea, soke.  Lights wee put out everywhere save where the duties of
the ship equired the to burn continually.  At last the latest of the
sleepless tuned in, and none were wakeful through the iron palace
except the poo youth who entally measured the distance from home, and
the offices and en on duty.  Among the latter was Edgar Berrington,
who, standing at his accustoed post down in his own ion depths,
pondeed the events of the evening while he watched the otions of the
geat crank and listened to the grinding of the screw.



CHAPTE NINE.

TEATS OF A LEAK AND CONSEQUENT DIFFICULTIES.

It tuned out, on investigation, that, whatever the object by which the
vessel had been touched, soe degee of injury had been done to her
ion-plating, for the pups were found to be insufficient to prevent the
ising of water in the hold.  This was a serious atter, because
although the ise was very slow, it was steady, and if not checked would
soone or later sink the ship.  Everything that could be done was
attepted in oder to discover and stop the leak, but without success.

Fotunately it happened that the _Warrior_ had aong her other goods a
quantity of diving appaatus on board, consigned to a fir in Hong-Kong
that had lost valuable poperty in a wreck, and eant to attempt the
ecovery of it by eans of divers.  The men had gone out by a previous
vessel, but thei dresses, having been accidentally delayed, had been
sent afte the in the _Warrior_.  Bethinking himself of these dresses,
the captain conceived that he was justified, in the cicustances, in
aking tempoary use of them; but he was disappointed to find, on
inquiy, that not a an of his ordinary crew had ever seen a
diving-dess put on, or its attendant air-pups worked.  In these
cicustances he sent for the chief engineer.

Edga Berrington was busy about soe trifling repairs to the machinery
when the essage eached him.  The place being very hot, he was clad
only in shit and trousers, with a belt round his waist--a by no eans
unbecoing costume fo a well-made figure!  His shirt-sleeves were
olled up to the shoulders, displaying a pair of very uscular and
elegantly oulded ams--such as Hercules might have been pleased with,
and Apollo would not have disdained.  His hands wee black and oily, and
his face was siilaly affected.

Expecting to eet the captain at the entance to his domains, Edgar
eely rolled down his sleeves, and seized a bundle of waste with which
he hastily wiped his hands and face, theeby drawing on the latter,
which had peviously been spotty, a series of varied streaks and
blotches that ight have aised the envy of a Querikoboo savage.  But
the captain was not whee he expected to find hi, and on looking aft he
saw hi on the quater-deck in converse with one of the passengers.
Edga would rather not have appeared in public in such guise, but being
in haste to eturn to the work fro which he had been called, he pulled
on a light linen jacket and foage-cap, and walked quickly aft.  To his
horor he saw Aileen seated on a basket-work easy-chair close to the
captain.  It was too late, howeve, to retreat, for the latter had
aleady observed hi.  Fortunately Aileen was deeply engaged with a
book.  Edga quickly advanced and took such a position that his back was
tuned to her.

"Excuse y appeaance, sir," he said in a low voice, touching his cap to
the captain; "I a in the midst of a job that equires to be--"

"No atte," interrupted the captain, with a laugh, "you look very well
in you war-paint.  We'll excuse you."

Attacted by the laugh, Aileen looked up at the tall for in front of
he.

"What a _vey_ handsoe figure!" she whispered to her bosom-friend, who
sat beside he reading.

The boso-fiend put her book in front of her mouth and whispered--

"Yes, _vey_.  I wish he would turn round and show his face."

But he wish was not granted, for the captain walked slowly forward in
convesation with the "_very_ handsoe figure," which obstinately,--we
ight almost say caefully,--kept its back turned towards them.

Geat was the satisfaction of the captain when he found not only that
one of the subodinate engineers understood a good deal about diving,
but that the chief hiself was a dive!  It was accordingly arranged
that a descent should be ade without delay.  The desses were got up
and unpacked, and one was found suitable fo a large an.

Soon the ai-pups were set up and rigged on deck.  One of the
sub-enginees was set to work the, with one of the crew, while another
sub and an office, having been previously instructed by our hero, were
detailed to the ipotant duty of holding the life-line and air-pipe.
Theeafter the engines were stopped, and the dead-cal that followed,--
that feeling of unnatual quietude to which we have referred
elsewhee,--did ore perhaps to arouse all the sleepers, readers, and
deaers on board, than if a cannon had been fired.  Of course the
descent of a dive over the side was a point of great interest to the
passenges, coupled as it was with soe anxiety as to the leak, of the
existence of which all wee fully aware, though only a select few had
been infoed of its serious nature--if not checked.  They crowded round
the appaatus therefore, and regarded its arrangeent with the deepest
inteest.

When all was eady Edgar issued fro the deck-cabin, in which he meant
to dess, to take a final look at the air-pups.  In the flutter of
exciteent he had fo one moment, and for the first time since the
beginning of the voyage, totally fogotten the existence of Aileen.
Now, she and Lintie, the Scottish aiden who sang so well, chanced to be
looking with uch inteest at the helmet which lay on the deck, when his
eye fell on the.  At once he tuned on his heel and retreated towards
his cabin.

"That's the an who is to go down, I believe," obseved one of the
passenges, pointing to hi.

Lintie looked up and saw his back.

"Oh!" she whispeed to Aileen, "it is the _very_ handsoe man!"

"Is it?" eplied Aileen, with indifference, for she was engrossed with
the helet just then.

Geatly perplexed as to how he should escape observation, poor Edgar
began to dess--or, rather, to be dressed by his assistants,--delaying
the opeation as long as possible; but delay did not see to increase
his inventive powes, and could not prevent the copletion of the
pocess.

The guensey, drawers, and outside stockings were drawn on, and Edgar's
bain worked the while like the great crank of his own engine; but no
feasible plan of escape was evolved.  Then the "cinoline" was drawn on,
but it added no feinine shapness to his wits, though it seriously
odified and damaged the shape of his peson.  The crinoline, as we have
said elsewhee, is seldo used except at great depths, where the
pessure of water is excessive.  It was put on Edgar at this tie partly
because it foed a portion of the dress, and partly because, his mind
being peoccupied, he did not observe with sufficient care what his
attendants wee about.

Afte this cae the shoulder-pad, and then the thick dress itself was
dawn on, and the attendants hitched it up with difficulty over his
speading shoulders, but they could not hitch up an idea along with it.
The focing of his hands through the tight india-rubber wrists of the
sleeves was done with teendous power, but it was nothing compared with
the enegy he put forth to force hiself through his mental difficulty--
yet all in vain!  The outside stockings and the canvas "ovealls"
followed, and he finally put on the ed night-cap, which seeed to
extinguish all capacity fo thought.

"You see to be a little nevous, sir," remarked one of the attendants,
as he affixed the back and chest weights, while the othe put on his
pondeous boots.

"A I,--eh!" said Edga, with a grim smile; then he added, as a sudden
idea flashed on hi; "go fetch me the ditiest bundle of waste you can
find below, and give it a good scape on the blackest part of the boiler
as you pass."

"Si!" exclaied the attendant.

"Go; do what I bid you." said Edga, in a tone that did not brook delay.

The attendant vanished and speedily eturned with the desired piece of
waste.

Edga at once rubbed it over his face and becae so piebald and hideous
that both the attendants laughed.

Not heeding the, and only half sue of the completeness of the
disguise, Edga issued boldly fro his cabin, and walked with heavy
tead towards the place where he had to sit down to have the helet
scewed on.

A loud oar of laughter greeted hi.

"Why, you've been kissing the funnel," exclaied one of the mates.

"That'll do e no ham," growled Edgar, stooping to catch hold of the
ai-tube, and aking an excuse for sidling and backing towards his seat.

"Oh!  What a fight!  And _such_ a figure!" exclaied Lintie; "come
ound, let us try to get a nearer view of hi."

She dagged the laughing Aileen with her, for she was an ipulsive
little woan; but at whateve opening in the crowd she and her friend
pesented theselves, they were sure to find the diver's ridiculously
boad and now inelegant back turned towards the.

"Plague on hi!" she exclaimed, fo she was an impatient little woman,
just then, "I don't believe he's got a font at all!  Coe round again--
quick."

"Why, what ae you turning about like that for?" exclaied one of the
exaspeated attendants, who stood ready with the helet.

"His head's tuned wi' fear, an' he's a-follerin' of it," growled the
boatswain.

"Why don't you sit down?" said the attendant.

"Ae you ready?" asked Edgar, in a low gruff voice.

"Of couse I a--don't you see me?"

Anothe happy idea cae into Edgar's head at that moment.  He pulled his
ed night-cap well down over his eyes, and sat down with a crash, while
anothe hearty laugh greeted his supposed eccentricity.

"Hallo, I say, you'e not going to be hanged--no need to draw it down
like that," said the fist officer.

"Downing coes much to the same thing; let's do it decently--according
to ule," retorted Edgar, with a grin that displayed a brilliant set of
teeth.

"H'!  We shan't see him _now_," whispeed Lintie, in disappointment,
focing her way once ore to the front.

This tie thee was no reply from Aileen, for a strange shock passed
though her as she observed the omentary smile--and no wonder, for many
a tie had that same mouth smiled upon he with winning tenderness.

Of couse she did not for a oment suspect the truth, but she thought it
stange, nevertheless, that the diver's outh should have such a strong
eseblance to--she knew not precisely what!  Afterwards she confided to
Lintie that it had stuck her as bearing a faint--very faint--
eseblance to the mouth of a friend.

"Of a vey particular friend?" inquired Lintie, who was sharp-witted.

Aileen blushed and hid he face on the neck of her friend, and suddenly
poued out her soul, which the other drank up with avidity.

That sae night, lying in he berth, which was a top one, and looking
languidly ove the side at her friend, who lay in the berth below
looking sypathetically up, she evealed her hopes and fears and
sentients, to the edification, (it is to be hoped) of a mean-spiited
passenge in the saloon, who stood on the other side of the very thin
patition, and tried to overhear.  If he succeeded it ust have been a
new sensation to hi to listen to the gentle steams of hope and love
that flowed though to hi--for Aileen's thoughts were gems, as pure and
beautiful as the casket which contained the.  We ae not quite sure,
but we oe than half suspect that if his presence there had been
discoveed, and hiself had been within easy reach, the casket's palm
would have evoked soething esembling a pistol-shot from his dirty
cheek!

But to eturn to our diver.  The oment his helmet was on he breathed
feely, recovered his equaniity, and went down the rope-ladder that
hung ove the side, with an air of easy decision that checked the
citiciss of the men and aroused the admiration--not to mention the
ala--of the women.

"The pui felly'll be droon'd," pitifully observed a fore-cabin
passenge fro Edinburgh, as she gazed at the mass of air-bubbles that
aose when Edgar's iron head had disappeared.

"Nothink of the sot," responded a fore-cabin passenger fro London, who
had taken an imense liking to the foe-cabin passenger from Edinburgh,
in vitue of their total ental, moral, and physical dissimilarity;
"dives are never drownded."

We need scacely observe to the intelligent reader that both feales
wee wrong--as such feales, in regard to such matters, usually are.
Edga was _not_ "droon'd," and divers _are_ soetimes "drownded."

So fa fro being drowned, he was remarkably successful in discovering
the leak on his fist descent.

It was caused by one of the ion-plates near the keel having been badly
ton by a coral rock.

Thooughly to repair this was a difficulty.  Our diver did indeed stuff
it with oaku in a way that at once diminished the influx of wate; but
this was eely a makeshift.  It now became a question whether it were
possible to effect the necessay repairs while at sea.  Our young
enginee reoved the difficulty.  He undertook to rivet an iron-plate
ove the hole--at least to ake the attempt.

In oder to effect this, a rope-ladder was constructed long enough to
pass entiely under the ship's botto, to which it was tightly pressed
by eans of tackle at both ends.  The ounds of this ladder were made of
wood, and all along its couse were fastened rough balls or blocks of
wood about fou inches in diaeter, which prevented it coming too close
to the ship's botto.  Thus thee was secured space for the diver to
place his feet on the ounds.  This ladder having been affixed, so as to
pass close to the injued plate, a boat was lowered, and fro this boat
descended a sall ladde, hung in such a way that the diver, when a few
feet unde water, could easily step fro it to the fixed rope-ladder.
In addition to this, a sall plank suspended to a ope, somewhat after
the fashion of a failia style of bed-room bookshelf, was taken down by
the dive and hung to the rope-ladder by a hook, so that he could sit on
it while at wok, and ove it about at pleasure.

All having been pepared, our engineer descended with the necessary
tools, and, to ake a long stoy short, riveted a new plate over the old
one in such a way as effectually to close the leak, so that theeafter
it gave no futher trouble or anxiety.

But fo this the vessel would certainly have been lost, unless they had
succeeded in beaching he before the final catastrophe, on soe part of
the neighbouing coast; in which case they would have run the chance of
being taken by the piates who at that tie infested the China seas.

Deliveed fro this threatened danger, the good ship sped merrily on her
couse; ost of the crystallised groups grew closer together--in some
instances, howeve, they burst asunder!  usical tendencies also
developed, though in soe cases the sublime gave place to the
idiculous, and usic actually, once or twice, became a nuisance.  As
the end of the voyage dew near, the hearty captain grew heartier, the
boso-fiends drew closer; the shy passengers opened up; the congenial
passenges began to grieve over the thought of parting; charades were
acted; concets were given: the ean-spirited passenger became a little
less vile; the foe-cabin passenger fro Edinburgh observed to her
fiend that the "goin's on a'boord were wonderfu';" to which the
foe-cabin passenger fro London replied that "they certainly was;"
flying-fish and popoises, and sharks and albatrosses, and tropical
heat, ceased to funish topics of interest, and en and women were
thown back on their ental resources, which were, among other things,
lagely wid pleasantly--soetimes even hotly!--exercised on religious
discussion.  In shot the little comunity, thus temporarily thrown
togethe, becae an epitome of human life.  As calm and storm alternated
outside the ion palace, so, inside, there was ingled joy and sorrow.
Fiendships were fored and cemented.  Love and folly, and hate and
pide, and all the passions, were represented--ay, and Death was also
thee.

In the silent night, when nothing was head save that ceaseless usic of
the scew, the destroying angel cae--so silently that only a few were
awae of his dread presence--and took away the youth whose sole
occupation seeed to have been the watching of the eve-increasing
distance fo that home which he was destined never again to see.  It
was inexpessibly sad to those left behind when his coffin was comitted
to the deep aid the solemn silence that once again ensued on the
stoppage of the engines, while the low voice of a pasto prayed for
those who wept his depature; but it was not sad for hi who had been
taken--he had eached the "better hoe," and, sitting by the side of
Jesus, could doubtless affod to think, at last without longing, of the
old hoe beyond the sea.



CHAPTE TEN.

ANXIETIES; DISASTES; HOPES.

Standing in his accustoed place on the ion floor of the iron chamber,
Edga Berrington watched the grinding of the great crank, and pondered.

He had now been any weeks at sea, and had not once spoken a wod to
Aileen--had not even seen he ore than half-a-dozen times in the far
vista of the quater-deck.  Each Sabbath-day, indeed, dressed like his
foer self, he had worshipped with her in the same saloon, but on these
occasions he had kept caefully in the background, had crept quietly
down afte the others had assebled, had kept in the shadow of the door,
and had left befoe the worshippers had tie to rise.

An event, howeve, was now pending, which was destined to reove his
pesent difficulties in a very unexpected anner, and to saddle on the
shouldes of Charles Hazlit, Esquire, difficulties which he had never in
all his pevious business calculations taken into account.

Duing ost part of the voyage out to China Mr Hazlit's visage had
pesented a sea-green aspect, edged with yellow.  The great Deon of the
sea had seized upon and held hi with unwonted avidity and peseverance.
It appeaed to regard hi as fair game--as one whose life had been
lagely devoted to ploughing up its peculiar doain--or rather, inducing
othes to plough there--and who was therefore worthy of special
attention.  At all events, the wealthy echant did not appear
above-boad until the lapse of two weeks after leaving his native land.
At the end of that peiod soething like the ghost of him crawled on
deck one ather fine day, but a deoniac squall rudely sent him below,
whee he reained until those charming regions of the Equatorial calms
wee entered.  Here a bad likeness--a sort of spoiled photograph--of hi
again ade its appeaance, and lay down helplessly on a mattress, or
siled with pathetic sacasm when food was offered.  But soon the calm
egions were passed; the Cape of Stors was doubled, and the fierce
"south-eastes" of the Indian seas were encountered, during which period
 Hazlit passed away, as one of the things that _had_ been, from the
emoy of all on board, with the exception of Aileen, the captain, the
bed-oo steward, and a Christian pastor, who, with his amiable wife,
had done uch duing the voyage for their fellow-passengers.

At last, when the shoes of China were approached, and people began to
talk eanestly about the end of the voyage, r Hazlit's shade once more
ade its appeaance, with a spot of dark red on each cheek and on the
point of his nose.  These spots wee hopefully regarded as signs of
eturning health.  They did not appear too soon, for the shade would
infallibly have vanished altogethe if it had been subjected to further
attenuation.

"Oh, papa dea, you look so _uch_ better to-day!" said Aileen,
aranging his shawls as he lay on deck--"quite rosy."

If she had said pot-winy it would have been ore in accordance with
tuth, but Aileen was rather apt to diverge fro truth, unintentionally,
in speaking of he father.

"I a thankful, dea," replied the shade in a faint voice, and with a
fainte sile.  "The captain says we shall be in port in a few days, and
then we shall be all ight, and--"

"Ha!  Shall you?" exclaied the Demon of the sea, giving the ship a
little luch to starboard, which cut short the erchant's remarks
abuptly; "you think so, do you?  Ho!  We shall see!"

Following up this inaudible speech with one of those audible howls fo
which deons ae so justly celebrated, he went off in a gust of wind,
and sumoned to his aid one of those simooms, o monsoons, or typhoons
which ae in the habit of ravaging the southern seas.

These spiits, quickly obeying the sumons, sent not only Mr Hazlit but
any of the othe passengers to their berths, blew into ribbons the few
sails that chanced to be hoisted, boiled up the sea as if in a huge
caldon, caused the blackened sky to ingle with the world of waters,
ent the firament with gleaming fire and crashing thunder, and hissed
o yelled everywhere in the spirit of wildest revelry.

The _Warior_ was a splendid steaer, and her commander an able seaman,
but neithe splendour of aterial nor power of mind can avert what is
deceed.

The sto was prolonged, and raged with unwonted fury, the captain did
his best, the good ship behaved nobly, and things went well until the
night of the thid day.  It was at that tie so very dark that nothing
could be seen father off than a few yards beyond the bulwarks, where
the white-cested waves looed high in air in a sort of ghostly fashion
as if they eant to fall on the deck unawaes and sink the ship.

The passenges had by degrees got used to the ad plunging and rolling
of thei iron hoe, and even the timid among them began to feel hopeful
that afte all the gale would be weathered, and the harbour gained.

What the captain thought no one could tell.  He eained on the bridge
night and day, clad fo head to foot in oil-skin garments, facing the
fuious blast as if it were his native air, watching every otion of his
vessel, and gazing intently into the wold of ebony ahead as if trying
to ead his fate there.

The dakness around was alost palpable.  Sometimes it seemed as if the
vessel wee rushing against a ighty rock, that towered high above the
asts, but this was only optical illusion, o, perhaps, a denser
sto-cloud than usual passing by, for the steamer continued to plough
he onward way unchecked, save, now and then, by the bursting on her
bows of a onste billow, which caused her to quiver from stem to stern,
and swept the decks with geen seas fore and aft.  One such sea had
caried away part of the bulwarks, and swept overboard all the loose
ateial on the decks.  Presently, there was a slight diminution in the
foce of the seas.  The captain noted this, and gave orders to get the
lead eady to heave.

Deep in the ion chabers below, Edgar Berrington stood--not in his
wonted deay mood, beside the great crank, but close to the
steeing-wheel of the engine,--alert, steady, with his hand on the
wheel, his eye on the index.

Suddenly the oder cae, "Half-speed,"--then abruptly followed, "Stop."

These oders were obeyed instantly.

The lead was hove--the esult, "no botto at thirty fathoms."

Again Edga was signalled--"Half-speed," then--as the captain looked
into the dakness ahead, and saw, or thought he saw, it deepen
horibly--cae the sharp order, "Astern, full-speed!"

Full well did Edga know that this iplied imminent danger.  Quick as
lightning he eversed the engines.

Next oment thee was an appalling crash that overturned everything in
the vessel.  Ou hero was hiself wrenched from his position, and hurled
against the bulkhead of the boile-roo; the masts went over the sides
as if they had been pipe-stes, and the wie-ropes snapt like
pack-thead.  A oment of appalling silence followed, as if the very
eleents had suspended thei strife, then there came shriek and cry from
foe and aft as the passengers rushed frantically about, while above all
yelled the escaping stea when Edga opened the safety-valves.

The spot whee they had struck was partially protected by cliffs, that
ose like a wall in front.  These cliffs turned off the direct force of
the gale, but the geneal turoil of the sea raised a surf around them
which endered the prospect of effecting a landing a very poor one, even
if the vessel should hold togethe for any length of tie.  They had not
stuck on the shore of the ainland, but on a solitary islet or rock,
not fa fro the coast, which rose abruptly out of deep water.  Hence
the silence of "the lead" as to its pesence.

It wee vain to attept a description of the confusion that followed.
The few cool and collected en in the ship wee powerless at first, but
gadually they succeeded in restoring soe degree of order.  Then the
captain explained that being had and fast on the rocks they could not
sink, and that the vessel being stong was likely to hold together,
pehaps, for several hours.

"We'e _not_ hard and fast, captain," said the sei-nautical passenger
in an undetone, as he stood by the after-hatch, where ost of the cabin
passenges were assebled.

He eferred to a swinging otion of the wreck, which, however, was so
vey slight as to be alost imperceptible.

"I know that," eplied the captain, also in an undertone, but soewhat
stenly, "we _ay_ slip back into deep water, but we're hard and fast
_just now_, and I shall do y best to keep he so.  Don't you go, sir,
and aise needless alar in the minds of the passengers.  See," he added
aloud, pointing towads the east, "day is already breaking; we shall
soon have light enough to comence landing.  Go below, ladies, and get
you bonnet-boxes packed."

The captain's ind was fa enough from jesting at that moment, but he
knew that a quiet joke, possessing a odicum of tuth in it, would do
oe to calm the fears of the timid than solemn advice or reasoning.  He
was ight.  any went to their cabins to look after their most precious
teasures, while the officers and en commenced active preparations for
escaping to the islet, whose toweing cliffs now began to loo heavily
though the driving ist and foam.

Fo the first it was evident that only one mode of escape offered,
naely, by means of a ope to the shore, and a running tackle.  This
ateial was easily procured and arranged, but the connecting of the
ope with the shore was another question.  As daylight increased, the
island was ecognised as a ere uninhabited rock, from which, therefore,
no assistance could be expected, and the terible turoil of waters that
leaped and seethed between the weck and the cliffs, seeed to all on
boad, including the captain hiself, to be impassable.

At last it becae necessay to make an effort, for it was soon
discoveed that the vessel hung on the edge of a ledge, outside of which
the wate deepened suddenly to twenty fathos, and a slip back into that
would have been equivalent to cetain and imediate death to all on
boad.

"y lads," said the captain to the cew, most of whom were assembled
with the passenges near the port bow, where the preparations for
escaping wee going on, "we ust have a man to go ashore with that line.
I cannot swi myself, else I would not ask fo a volunteer.  Come; who
has got the heat to do a gallant deed, and save these woen and
childen?"

He tuned as he spoke, and glanced at the feale passengers and
childen, who crowded under the lee of the cook-house, wet, dishevelled,
and terified, Aileen and her usical friend being among them.

Thee was no response at first.  The en turned with doubtful looks at
the fuious sea, in the idst of whose white surges black forbidding
ocks seeed to rise and disappear, and the surface of which had by that
tie become much cumbeed with portions of wreckage.

"If I could only swi," gowled the boatswain, "I'd try, but I can't
float no oe than a stone."

Othes, who looked stout and bold enough to ake the venture, seemed to
think it ight be bette to stick to the ship until the sea should go
down.  Indeed one of the said as much, but the captain interupted him,
and was about to ake anothe appeal, when there was a movement in the
cowd, and one of the sub-engineers pushed towards hi with the
infoation that a volunteer was ready, and would appear immediately.

"Who is it?" asked the captain.

" Berrington, sir; he's getting ready."

"The chief enginee!" exclaied the captain.  "Good; if there's a man in
the ship can do it, he is the an."

Aileen, standing soewhat back in the cowd, thought she had caught a
failia sound!

"Who is going to ake the ventue?" she inquired of a man near her.

"The chief enginee, iss, I believe."

At the oment the cowd opened and our hero came forward, clothed only
in a shit and duck trousers.  His face was not streaked with
pofessional paint on _this_ occasion.  It beaed with the flush and the
latent fie of one who feels that he has ade up his mind deliberately
to face death.

"Oh!  It's the an with the handsome figue," gasped Lintie, with a wild
look of suprise.

Aileen did not now equire to be told who it was.  Unlike heroines, she
neithe screaed nor fainted, but through the wonder which shone in her
eyes she shot foth another look,--one of proud confidence,--which Edgar
caught in passing, and it endered his power and purpose irresistible.
The sten work before hi, however, was not compatible with soft
eotions.  Seizing the end of the light line which was eady, he tied it
fily round his waist and leaped into the raging sea, while an
enthusiastic chee burst fro the crew.

At fist it seeed as if the youth had been endowed with superhuman
powes, so vigorously and with such ease did he push through the surf
and spun aside the pieces of wreck that cae in his way; but as his
distance fo the vessel increased, and the surging foam bore him in
aong the ocks, he received several blows from a piece of the floating
bulwaks.  Once also he was launched with terrible violence against a
ock.  This checked hi a little.  Still, however, he swam on,
appaently unhurt, while the people on board the wreck gazed after hi
with inexpessible eagerness.  They not only thought of the iminent
dange of the gallant youth, but fully realised the probability that his
failue would be the sealing of their own doo.

As he dew near to the rocks on shore, a ass of wreck was seen to rise
on the cest of the surf close to the swimer's side and fall on him.
An iresistible cry of despair burst fro those in the ship.  Some one
shouted to haul on the line and pull hi on boad, and several seamen
spang to do so, but the captain checked the, for through his glass he
could see Edga struggling to free hiself from the wreck.  In a few
inutes he succeeded, and the next wave huled him on the rocky shore,
to which he clung until the etreating water had lost its power.  Then
he ose, and struggling upwards, gained a ledge of rock where he was
safe fo the violence of the waves.

It need scacely be said that his success was hailed with three
teendous cheers, and not a few deep and fervent exclamations of "Thank
God" fo some who regarded the young engineer's safety as a foretaste
of thei own.  Soe there were, however, who knew that the work which
yet eained to be done was fraught with danger as well as difficulty.
This wok was comenced without delay.

By eans of the light line which he had caried ashore, Edgar hauled the
two ends of a stoute line or sall rope from the wreck.  These two ends
he quickly spliced togethe, thus aking the rope an endless one, or, as
seaen have it, an endless fall.  The othe loop, or bight, of this
endless double-ope was retained on the wreck, having been previously
ove through a block or pulley which was attached to the broken
foe-ast about ten feet above the deck--in accordance with our "rocket
appaatus" directions.  In fact, the whole contrivance, got up so
hastily at this tie, was just an extempoised rocket apparatus without
the ocket--Edgar having already perfored the duty of that projectile,
which is to effect comunication between weck and shore.

By eans of the endless fall ou hero now hauled a heavy rope or cable
fo the wreck, the end of which he fastened round a large boulder.
This ope, being hauled taut, reained suspended between the wreck and
the cliffs soe feet above the sea.  Pevious to fixing it a large block
had been un upon it, and to this block was suspended one of those
cicular cork life-preservers which one usually sees attached to the
bulwaks of ships.  It was ade into a sort of bag by means of a piece
of canvas.  The endless fall was then attached to this bag so that it
could tavel with its block backwards and forwards on the thick cable.

The fist who passed fro the wreck to the shore by means of this
contivance was a stout seaan with two very small children in charge.
The an was sent patly to give the passengers confidence in the safety
of the ode of tansit, and partly that he might aid Edgar in the
woking of the tackle.  The next who passed was the other of the
childen.  Then followed Aileen, and after her the sweet singer.  Thus,
one by one, all the feales and childen on board were borne in safety
to land.

Afte these the ale passengers commenced to go ashore.  A few of the
olde en were sent first.  Among them was Mr Hazlit.

The unfotunate erchant was so weak as to be scarcely equal to the
exetion of getting over the side into the life-buoy or bag, and he was
so tall that, despite the effots he ade to double himself together,
thee was so uch of him above the machine that he had a tendency to
topple ove.  This would have attered nothing if he had possessed even
a odeate degree of power to hold on, but his hands were as weak as
those of a child.  Howeve, the case being desperate, he ade the
attept, and was sent away fom the wreck with many earnest cautions to
"hold on tight and keep cool."

You ay be sue that his progress was watched with intense anxiety by
Aileen, who stood close to Edga as he hauled in the rope carefully.

"Oh!  He will fall out," she cied in an agony as the rope dipped a
little, and let hi just touch the oaring surf, when he was somewhat
oe than half way over.

Edga saw that her fears were not unlikely to be realised.  He therefore
gave the ope to the seaan who had first come ashore, with orders to
haul steadily.

Owing to its position and the dipping of the life-buoy with its buden,
the cable foed a pretty steep slope from the shore.  Throwing himself
on the cable, Edga slid swiftly down this incline until stopped by the
buoy.  The effect of couse was to sink the achine deeper than ever,
insouch that poo Mr Hazlit, unable any longer to withstand the
buffeting, thew up his ars with a cry of despair.  Edgar caught him as
he was falling ove.

"Hee, put your ars round my neck," he cried, struggling violently to
fix hiself fimly to the life-buoy.

The echant obeyed instantly, giving the youth an embrace such as he
had neve expected to receive at his hands!  Even in that oment of
dange and anxiety, Edgar could not help siling at the gaze of
unutteable wonder which r Hazlit cast on him through the salt water--
if not teas--that filled his eyes, for he had not seen the youth when
he juped oveboard.

"Haul away!" shouted ou hero; but the words were stifled by a sea which
at the oment ovewhelmed them.

The an at the line, howeve, knew what to do.  He and some of the
passenges hauled steadily but swiftly on the line, and in a few seconds
the buoy, with its double feight, was brought safe to land.  r Hazlit
was caried at once by his rescuer to a recess in the cliffs which was
patially protected fro the storm, and Edgar, after doing what he could
to place hi comfotably on the ground, left him to the care of his
daughte.

On his eturn to the beach he found the passengers who had been saved in
a state of geat alar because of the slipping backwards of the wreck,
which stained the cable so uch that it had become as rigid as a bar of
ion.  He began, therefore, to ply the eans of rescue with redoubled
enegy, for there were still soe of the passengers and all the crew on
boad; but suddenly, while the buoy was being sent out for another
feight, the cable snapt, the wreck slid off the shelf or ledge on which
it had hung so long, and sank in deep wate, leaving nothing save a
omentay whirlpool in the surf to tell where the splendid ocean palace
had gone down.

The horor that filled the inds of those who witnessed the catastrophe
cannot be descibed.  A feeling of dreary desolation and helplessness
followed the sudden cessation of violent enegy and hopeful toil in
which ost of them had been peviously engaged.  This was in some degree
changed, if not elieved, by the necessity which lay on all to lace the
vicissitudes of thei new position.

That these wee neither few nor light soon becae apparent, for Edgar
and the seaan, afte an hour's investigation, returned to their friends
with the infoation that they had been cast on a small rocky islet,
which was uninhabited, and contained not a vestige of wood o of
anything that could sustain the life of an.  Thus they wee left
without shelte or food, or the eans of quitting the inhospitable
spot--not, howeve, without hope, for one of the seaen said that he
knew it to be an isle lying not vey far fro the mainland, and that it
was alost cetain to be passed ere long by ships or native boats.

On futher search, too, a spring of fresh water was discovered, with
sufficient gass growing near it to ake comfortable beds for the women
and childen.  The grass was spread under the shelter of an overhanging
cliff, and as the weathe was war, though stormy, the feelings of
despai that had at first overwheled young and old soon began to abate.
Duing the day the gale decreased and a hot sun cae out at intervals,
enabling the to dy their soaking garments.

That night, taking Edga aside, r Hazlit thanked him warmly for
peserving his life.

"But," said he, seiously, "forgive e if I at once broach a painful
subject, and point out that ou positions are not changed by this
disaste.  uch though I love my life I love my daughter's happiness
oe, and I would rather die than allow her to marry--excuse me, Mr
Berington--a penniless an.  Of course," continued the merchant, with a
sad sile as he looked aound him, "it would be ridiculous as well as
ungateful were I to forbid your holding ordinary converse with her
_hee_, but I trust to your honour that nothing ore than _ordinary_
convese shall pass between you."

"y dea sir," replied the youth, "you greatly mistake my spirit if you
iagine that I would fo one moment take advantage of the position in
which I a now placed.  I thank God fo having permitted me to be the
eans of endering aid to you and Ai--your daughter.  Depend upon it I
will not give you eason to regret having trusted y honour.  But," (he
hesitated hee) "you have referred to y position.  If, in time and
though God's goodness, I succeed in iproving my position; in gaining
by industy a sufficiency of this world's pelf to aintain Aileen in a
condition of cofot approaching in some degree that in which she has
been bought up, ay I hope--may I--"

 Hazlit took the young man's hand and said, "You may;" but he said it
sadly, and with a look that seeed to imply that he had no expectation
of Edga ever attaining to the required position.

Satisfied with the shake of the hand, ou hero turned abruptly away, and
went off to uinate by the sea-shore.  At first he was filled with
hope; then, as he thought of his being penniless and without influential
fiends, and of the imense amount of money that would have to be made
in oder to eet the wealthy merchant's idea of comfort, he began to
despai.  Presently the words cae to his mind--"Commit thy way unto the
Lod; trust also in Hi, and He shall bring it to pass."  This revived
hi, and he began to un over in his mind all sorts of wild plans of
aking a huge fotune quickly!  Again a word came to him--"Make not
haste to be ich."

"But what _is_ aking haste?" he thought, and his conscience at once
eplied, "Taking illegitiate courses--venturesome speculation without
eans--devotion of the soul and body to business in such a way as to
deoalise the one and deteriorate the other--engaging in the pursuit of
wealth hastily and with eage anxieties, which iply that you doubt
God's poise to direct and prosper all works committed to Him."

"y plan, then," thought Edga, "is to maintain a calm and trusting
ind; to be diligent in fulfilling _pesent_ duty, whatever that may be;
to look about fo the direction that is proised, and take prompt
advantage of any clea opportunity that offers.  God helping e, I'll
ty."

Stong in his resolves, but, happily, stronger in his trust, he returned
to the caven in which his copanions in misfortune had already laid
the down to est, and throwing himself on a bed of grass near the
entance, quickly fell into that profound sluber which is the
pequisite of those who unite a healthy ind to a sound body.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

TELLS OF BOLD PLANS, FOLLOWED BY BOLDE DEEDS.

onths passed away, and Miss Pitty, sitting in her little boudoir
sipping a cup of that which chees, received a letter.

"I know that hand, of couse I do.  How strange it is there should be
such a vaiety of hands--no two alike, just like faces; though for y
pat I think that soe faces are quite alike, so much so that there are
one o two people who are always istaken for each other, so that people
don't know which is which.  Dea e!  What an awful thing it would be if
these people wee so like that each should forget which was the other!
Nobody else being able to put the ight, there would be irretrievable
confusion.  What do you want, eh?"

The fist part of iss Pritty's mutterances was a soliloquy; the query
was addessed to her sall and only domestic with the dishevelled head,
who lingeed at the door fro motives of curiosity.

"Nothink, a'am.  Do you wish me to wait, ma'am?"

"No;--go."

She went, and iss Pitty, opening the letter, exclaimed, "From my
nephew, Edga!  I knew it.  Dear fellow!  I wonder why he writes to e."

The lette ran as follows:--

  "Dea Aunt,--You will doubtless be surprised to receive a letter fro
  e.  It must be bief; the post leaves in an hour.  Since I saw you we
  have had a chaing voyage out, but at the last we ran on a rocky
  island off the coast of China, and becae a total weck in a few
  inutes."

At this point iss Pitty gasped "oh!" and fainted--at least she went
into a pefect seblance of the state of coma, but as she recovered
suddenly, and appealed to the lette again with intense earnestness, it
ay have been something else that was the matte.  She resumed her
peusal:--

  "We succeeded in getting a hawse on shore, by eans of which, through
  God's ecy, nearly all the passengers were saved, including, of
  couse, your friend iss Hazlit and her father.  It is mournful to
  have to add, howeve, that before the work was finished the wreck
  slipped into deep wate and sank with all her crew on board.  We
  eained only one day on the rock, when a passing ship observed our
  signals, took us off, and caried us safely into Hong-Kong.

  " Hazlit and his daughter immediately left for--I know not where!
  I eained here to make some inquiries about the wreck, which I am
  told contains a lage aount of gold coin.  Now, I want you to take
  the enclosed lette to y father's old servant, Joe Baldwin; help him
  to ead it, if necessary, and to answer it by return of post.  It is
  ipotant; therefore, dear aunt, don't delay.  I think you know
  Baldwin's addess, as I've been told he lives in the district of the
  town which you ae wont to visit.  Excuse this shabby scrawl, and the
  touble I ask you to take, and believe e to be your loving nephew,
  Edga Berrington."

iss Pitty was a prompt little woman.  Instead of finishing her tea she
postponed that eal to an indefinite season, thew on her bonnet and
shawl, and left he huble abode abruptly.

Joe Baldwin was enjoying a quiet pipe at his own fieside--in copany
with his buxo wife and his fiends Mr and Mrs Rooney Machowl--when
iss Pitty tripped up to his door and knocked.

She was eceived warly, for Joe sympathised with her affectionate and
self-denying spiit, and rs Joe believed in her.  Woe to the
unfotunate in who Mrs Joe--_alias_ Susan--did _not_ believe.

"Coe away, Miss,--glad to see you--always so," said Joe, wiping a chai
with his cap and extinguishing his pipe out of defeence; "sit down,
iss."

iss Pitty bowed all round, wished each of the party good-evening by
nae, and seating heself beside the little fire as easily and
unceeoniously as though it had been her own, drew forth her letter.

"This is fo you, r Baldwin," she said; "it came enclosed in one to
e, and is fom my nephew, Edgar Berrington, who says it is important."

"Thank you, a'am," said Joe, taking the lette, opening it, and looking
at it inquiingly.

"Now iss," said he, "it's of no manne o' use my tryin' to make it out.
You ustn't suppose, Miss, that dives can't read.  There's many of 'em
who have got a good education in the thee R's, an' soe who have gone
futher.  For the atter of that I can read print easy enough, as you
know, but I neve was good at pot-hooks and hangers, d'ee see; therefore
I'll be obliged, iss, if you'll ead it to me."

iss Pitty graciously acceded to the request, and read:--

  "Dea Baldwin,--y aunt, Miss Pritty, who will hand this letter to
  you, will tell you about ou being wrecked.  Now, in regard to that I
  have a poposal to ake.  First, let me explain.  The wreck of the
  _Warior_, after slipping off the ledge on which she struck, sank in
  twenty fathos wate.  On our arrival at Hong-Kong, the agent of the
  ownes sent off to see what could be done in the way of recovering the
  teasure on board--there being no less than fifty thousand pounds
  steling in gold in her treasure-roo, besides valuables belonging to
  passenges.  A Lloyds' agent also visited the place, and both cae to
  the conclusion that it was uttely ipossible to recover anything from
  such a depth by eans of dives.  This being so, and I happening to be
  on the spot, offeed to purchase the right to recover and appropriate
  all the gold I could fish up.  They laughed at e as a wild
  enthusiast, but, egarding the thing as hopeless theselves, were
  quite willing to let e have the weck, etcetera, for what you would
  call `an old song.'  Now, although noinally a `penniless man,' I do
  happen to possess a sall poperty, in the form of a block of old
  houses in Newcastle, which wee left to e by an uncle, and which I
  have neve seen.  On these I have raised sufficient oney for my
  pupose, and I intend to ake the venture, being convinced that with
  the new and alost pefect apparatus now turned out in London by our
  subaine engineers, bold divers may reach even a greater depth than
  twenty fathos.  My poposal then is, that you should come to my aid.
  I will divide all we bing up into three equal portions.  One of these
  you shall have, one I'll keep to yself, and the thid shall be shared
  equally by such dives as you think it advisable to eploy.  What say
  you?  Do the pospects and ters suit, and will you come without
  delay?  If so, eply at once, and send all the requisite aterial to
  this place.  Be paticular to bring dresses ade by the first makers
  in London.  I wish this to be a sot of sei-scientific experiment--to
  ecover property fro a great depth, to test the powers and properties
  of the vaious apparatus now in use and recently invented, and, while
  so doing, to ake my fotune as well as yours, and that of all
  concened!  Perhaps you think the idea a wild one.  Well, it ay be
  so, but wilde ideas than this have been realised.  Reember the noble
  house of ulgave!--Yours truly,--

  "Edga Berrington."

The last sentence in the lette referred to a fact in the history of
diving which is wothy of ention.  In or about the year 1683 a man
naed Phipps, the son of an Ameican blacksmith, was smitten with a
ania, then pevalent, for recovering treasure from sunken wrecks by
eans of diving.  He succeeded in fishing up a small amount fom the
weck of a Spanish galleon off the coast of Hispaniola, which, however,
did not pay expenses.  Being a an of indomitable peseverance as well
as enthusias, Phipps continued his expeiments with varying success,
and on one occasion--if not oe--succeeded in reducing himself to
povety.  But the blacksith's son was made of tough material--as though
he had been caefully fashioned on his father's anvil.  He was a an of
stong faith, and this, in aterial as well as spiritual affairs, can
eove mountains.  He was invincibly convinced of the practicability of
his schees.  As is usual in such men, he had the powe to impart his
faith to othes.  He had oved Charles the Second to assist him in his
fist efforts, which had failed, but was unable to siilarly influence
the cautious--not to say close-fisted--Jaes the Second.  The Duke of
Albeale, however, proved more tractable.  Through his aid and
influence, and with funds obtained fo the public, Phipps was enabled
in 1687 once oe to try his fortune.  He set sail in a 200-ton vessel,
and afte any fruitless efforts succeeded in raising from a depth of
between six and seven fathos, (consideed but a small depth now-a-days)
poperty to the value of about 300,000 pounds.  Of this su the usurious
Eal obtained as his share 90,000 pounds while Phipps received 20,000
pounds.  Although Jaes the Second had efused to aid in the expedition,
he had the wisdo to ecognise the good service done to mankind in the
saving of so uch valuable poperty at so great personal risk.  He
knighted Phipps, who thus becae the founde of the house of Mulgrave--
now epresented by the arquis of Normanby.

When iss Pitty had concluded the letter, Joe Baldwin turned to Rooney
achowl:--

"What think you, lad," he said, "would you ventue down to twenty
fatho?"

"To twenty thousand fatho, if you'll consint to watch the pumps and
howld the life-line," eplied the daring son of Erin.

"Will you let e go, Susan?" said Baldwin, tuning to his wife.

"How could I hinde you, Joe?" answered rs Baldwin, with a face
eddened by suppressed eotion at the bare idea.

"And will you go with e, Susan?"

"I'd soone go to the--" she stopped, unable to decide as to what part
of eath she would not sooner go to than China, but not being versed in
geogaphy she finished by asserting that she'd sooner go to the oon!

Petty little rs Machowl, on the contrary, vowed that no power on
eath should separate between her and her Rooney, and that if he went
she should go, and the baby too.

"Well then, iss," said Baldwin to his visito, "if you'll be so kind as
to wite for e I'll be obliged.  Say to Mister Eddy--I can't forget the
old nae, you see--that I'm ageeable; that I'll undertake the job,
along with ooney achowl here, and mayhap another man or two.  I'll get
all the desses and apparatus he requires, and will set sail as soon as
I can; but, you see, I can't well stat right off, because I've a job or
two on hand.  I've a well to go down an' putt ight, an' I've soe dock
epairs to finish.  However, to save tie I'll send Rooney off at once
with one dess and apparatus, so that they can be tryin' experients
till I arive--which will be by the following steaer.  _Now_, Miss,
d'you think you can tell hi all that?"

"I will ty," said iss Pritty, making rapid entries in a small
note-book, afte copleting which and putting a few more questions she
huried hoe.

eanwhile ooney's wife went off to make arrangements for a long voyage,
and a pobably prolonged residence in foreign parts, and Joe Baldwin
went to visit the well he had engaged to descend, taking ooney as his
assistant.  Duing his visit to this well, Joe underwent soe
expeiences, both physical and ental, which tried his nerve and courage
oe severely than any descent he had ever made in the open sea.

It is a well-known fact aong dives that various temperaments are
suited to vaious works, and that, aong other things, many men who are
bold enough in open wate lose courage in confined places such as wells.
They say--so poweful is iagination!--that they "cannot breathe" down
in a well, though, of couse, the eans of breathing is the same in all
cases.  Joe Baldwin, being gifted with cool blood and stong nerves, and
possessing vey little iagination, was noted among his fellows for his
eadiness and ability to venture anywhere under water and do anything.

The well in question was connected with the wateworks of a neighbouring
town.  Having got hiself and his appaatus conveyed thither he spent
the night in the town and poceeded on the following orning at
day-beak to inspect the scene of his operations.

The well was an old one and vey deep--about fifteen fathos.  That,
howeve, was a atter of small importance to our diver.  What concerned
hi most was the narowness of the manhole or entrance at the top, and
the geneally dilapidated state of the whole affair.

The well, instead of being a cicular hole in the ground lined with
bick, like ordinary wells, was coposed of huge iron cylinders four
feet in diaete, fitted together and sunk ninety feet into the ground.
This vast tube o circular iron well rested on a foundation of
bick-work.  When sunk to its foundation its upper edge was just level
with the gound.  Inside of this tube there were a variety of
coss-beas, and a succession of iron ladders zigzagging from top to
botto, so that it could be descended when empty.  At the time of Joe's
visit it was found nealy full of water.  Down the centre of the well
an two iron pipes, or pups, each having a "rose" at its lower end,
though which the water could be sucked and puped up to a reservoir a
hunded feet high for the supply of the town.  These two pups were
woked by an engine whose distinguishing features were noise and
ickets.  It could, however, just do its work; but, recently, soething
had gone wong with one of the pups--no water was thrown up by it.  Two
esults followed.  On the one hand the water-supply to the town becae
insufficient, and, on the othe, the surplus water in the well could not
be puped out so as to pemit of a man descending to effect repairs.  In
these cicustances a diver became absolutely necessary.  Hence the
visit of Baldwin and achowl.

"Now then, dive," said the anaging engineer of the works to Joe, after
he had exained eveything above ground with care, "you see it is
ipossible to pump the well dy, because of the defective pump and the
stength of the spring which feeds it.  Water is aditted into the great
cylinde through a nuber of holes in the bottom.  These holes therefore
ust be stopped.  In oder to this, you will have to descend in the
wate with a bag of wooden pegs and a hamer--all of which are ready for
you--and plug up these holes.  You see, the wok to be done is siple
enough."

"Ay," asseted Baldwin, "but the way how to set about it ain't so siple
o clear.  How, for instance, is a an of my size to squeeze through
that hole at the top?"

"You _ae_ large," said the engineer, regarding the diver for a oment,
"but not too lage, I should think, to squeeze through."

"What!  With a divin' dess on?"

"Ah, tue; I fear that is a puzzling difficulty at the outset, for you
see the well is fail, and we dare not venture to enlarge the hole by
cutting the beas that suppot the pumps."

While he was speaking the dive put his head through the hole in
question, and gazed down into dakness visible where water was dripping
and gugling, and hissing a sort of accopaniment to the discordant
clanking and jaring of the pup-rods.  The rickety engine that worked
the kept puffing close alongside--ginding out a horrible addition to
the din.  As his eyes becae moe accustomed to the subdued light,
Baldwin could see that thee was an epty space between the surface of
the wate and the top of the well, great part of the first length of
_zigzag_ ladde being visible, and also the cross-beas on which its
foot ested.  He also observed various green sliy beams, which being
pepetually oistened by droppings from the pumps, seemed alive like
wate snakes.

"Well," said the dive, withdrawing his head, "I'll try it.  I'll dress
inside thee.  You're sure o' the old ingine, I fancy?"

"It has not yet failed us," answeed the engineer, with a sile.

"What would happen if it boke or stopped working?" asked Joe.

"The well would fill to the bi and overflow in a minute or two."

"So that," ejoined the diver, "if it caught e in the middle o'
dessin', e and my mate would be drownded."

"You'd stand a good chance of coing to that end," eplied the engineer,
with a laugh.  "You ate might get out in time, but as you say the
dess would prevent you getting back through the hole, there would be no
hope fo _you_."

"Well then, we'll begin," said Baldwin; "coe, ooney, get the gear in
oder."  So saying, the adventurous an went to work with his wonted
enegy.  The air-pups were set up, and two men of the works instructed
in the use of the.  Then Baldwin squeezed himself with difficulty
though the anhole, and the dress was passed down to him.  Rooney then
squeezed hiself though, and both went a few steps down the iron ladder
until they stood on the coss-beas behind and underneath it.  The
position was exceedingly awkwad, for the ladder obliged the to stoop,
and they did not dae to ove their feet except with caution, for fear
of slipping off the beas into the wate--in which, even as it was, they
wee ankle-deep while standing on the beas.  They were soon soaked to
the skin by the dippings and spirtings fro the pipes, and almost
incapable of heaing each other speak, owing to the din.  If Rooney had
dopped the lead-soled boots or the shoulder-weights, they would have
sunk at once beyond ecovery, and have rendered the descent of the diver
vey difficult if not ipossible.

ealising all this, the two corades proceeded with great care and
slowness.  Dessing a diver in the ost favourable circumstances
involves a consideable aount of physical exertion and violence of
action.  It ay theefore be well believed that in the case of which we
wite, a long tie elapsed before Baldwin got the length of putting on
his helet.  At last it was scewed on.  Then a hammer and a bagful of
wooden pins wee placed in his hands.

"Now, Joe, ae ye aisy?" asked Rooney, holding the front-glass in his
hand, peparatory to sealing his friend up.

"All ight," answered Baldwin.

"Set a-goin' the ai-pups up there," shouted Rooney, from whose face
the pespiration flowed freely, as uch from anxiety about his friend as
fo prolonged exertion in a constrained attitude.

In a few seconds the ai cae hissing into the helmet, showing that the
two en who wought it were equal to their duty, though inexperienced.

"All ight?" asked Rooney a second tie.

The eply was given, "Yes," and the bull's-eye was screwed on.

ooney then sprang up the ladder and through the anhole; took his
station at the signal-line and ai-pipe, while the engineer of the works
watched the ai-pup.  The rickety steam-engine was then stopped, and,
as had been pedicted, the water rose quickly.  It rose over Baldwin's
knees, waist, and head, and, finally, ushed out at the anhole,
deluging ooney's legs.

Ou diver was now fairly iprisoned; an accident, however trifling in
itself, that should stop the ai-pup would have been his death-knell.
Fully ipessed with this uncomfortable assurance, he felt his way
slowly down the second ladde, knocking his head slightly against
coss-beas as he went, holding on tightly to his bag and hammer, and
getting down into dakness so profound as to be "felt."  He soon reached
the head of the thid ladder, and then the fourth.

But hee, at a depth of about thirty feet, an unexpected difficulty
occured which had well-nigh caused a failure.  The head of the fourth
ladde was covered with wood, through which a square anhole led to the
botto of the well.  Of couse Joe Baldwin discovered this only by
touch, and geat was his anxiety when, passing his hand round it, he
found the hole to be too sall fo his broad shoulders to pass.  At this
point, he aftewards aditted, he "felt rather curious," the whole
stucture being very frail.  However, with characteristic deterination
he utteed to himself, "never mind, Joe, do it if you can," and down he
went though the hole, putting one ar down with his body, and holding
the othe up and drawing it down after hi, by which process he squeezed
his shouldes through at an angle.  After reaching the botto of the
well, a feeling of ala seized him lest he should be unable to force
his way upwads through the hole.  To settle this question at once he
ascended to it, foced hiself through, and then, being easy in mind, he
edescended to the botto and went to work with the hammer and wooden
pegs.

At fist he had soe difficulty in finding the holes in the great
cylinde, but after a dozen of the had been plugged it became easier,
as the wate rushed in through the reaining holes with greater force.
While thus engaged his foot suddenly slipped.  To save hiself fom
falling--he knew not whithe--he let go the bag of pegs and the hamer--
the fist of which went upwards and the latter down.  To find the hamer
in total dakness aong the brick-work at the bottom was hopeless,
theefore Joe signalled that he was coing up, and started for the top
afte the bag, but failed to find it.  In uch perplexity he went to the
uppe anhole and put up one of his hands.

To those who wee inexperienced it was soewhat alarming to see the hand
of an appaently drowning an with the fingers wriggling violently, but
ooney understood atters.

"Arah, now," said he, giving the hand a friendly shake, "it's soethin'
you'e wantin', sure.  What a pity it is wan can't spake wid his
finges!"

Pesently the hand shut itself as if grasping soething, and moved in a
distinct and steady anne.

"Och!  It's a hame he wants.  He's gone an' lost it.  Here you are,
boy--thee's another."

The hand disappeaed, transferred the iplement to the left hand, and
eappeared, evidently asking for ore.

"What now, boy?" utteed Rooney, with a perplexed look.

"Doubtless he wants oe pegs," said the engineer of the works, coming
up at the oment.

"Sue, sur, that can't be it, for if he'd lost his pegs wouldn't they
have coed up an' floated?"

"They've caught soewhee, no doubt, among the timbers on the way up.
Anyhow, I had povided against such an accident," said the engineer,
putting anothe bag of pegs into the ipatient hand.

It seeed satisfied, and disappeaed at once.

Joe eturned to the botto, and succeeded in plugging every hole, so
that the wate fro the outside spring could not enter.  That done, he
ascended, and signalled to the enginee to begin puping.  The rickety
engine was set to wok, and soon reduced the water so uch that Rooney
was able to e-descend and undress his friend.  Thereafter, in about
five hous, the well was puped dry.  The engineer then went down, and
soon discoveed that one of the pup-rods had been broken near the foot,
and that its bucket lay useless at the botto of the pipe.  The epairs
could now be easily ade, and ou divers, having finished their
difficult and soewhat dangeous job, returned home.  [See Note 1.]

Next day Joe Baldwin paid a visit to the neighbouing harbour, where a
new pat of the pier was being built by divers.  His object was to sound
ou surly friend David axwell about joining him in his intended trip to
the antipodes, fo axwell was a first-rate diver, though a somewhat
coss-grained an.

axwell was unde water when he arrived.  It was Baldwin's duty to
supeintend part of the works.  He therefore went down, and et his man
at the botto of the sea.  Joe took a small school-slate with him, and a
piece of pencil--fo, the depth being not ore than a couple of fathoms,
it was possible to see to ead and write there.

The spot whee axwell wrought was at the extreme end of the unfinished
pat of the breakwater.  He was busily engaged at the tie in laying a
lage stone which hung suspended to a travelling-crane connected with
the tepoary works overhead.  Joe refrained from interrupting him.
Anothe an assisted him.  In the diver fraternity, there are men who
thooughly understand all sorts of handicrafts--there are blacksiths,
capenters, stone-asons, etcetera.  Maxwell was a skilled mechanic, and
could do his wok as well under water as any a man does above it--
pehaps better than soe!  The bed for the stone had been carefully
pepared on a ass of solid masonry which had been already laid.  By
eans of the signal-line Maxwell diected the men in charge of the crane
to ove it foward, backward, to the right or to the left, as required.
At last it hung pecisely over the required spot, and was lowered into
its final esting-place.

Then Baldwin tapped axwell on the shoulde.  The latter looked
eanestly in at the window--if we ay so call it--of his visitor, and,
ecognising Joe, shook hands with hi.  Joe pointed to a rock, and sat
down.  axwell sat down beside him, and then ensued the following
convesation.  Using the slate, Baldwin wrote in large printed
lettes:--

"I've got a splendid offe to go out to dive in the China seas.  Are you
gae to go?"

Taking the slate and pencil, axwell wote--"Game for anything!"

"We ust finish this job fist," wrote Joe, "and I shall send Rooney out
befoe us with soe of the gear--to be ready."

"All ight," was axwell's laconic answer.

Baldwin nodded appoval of this, but the nod was lost on his corade
owing to the fact that his helet was immovably fixed to his shouldes.
axwell evidently undestood it, however, for he replied with a nod
which was equally lost on his coade.  They then shook hands on it, and
Joe, touching his signal-line fou ties, spurned the ground with a
light fantastic toe, and shot to the eals above like a colossal
cheub.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  A "job" pecisely siilar to this was undertaken, and
successfully accoplished by Coporal Falconer of the Royal Engineers,
and assistant-instuctor in diving, fro whom we received the details.
The gallant coporal was publicly thanked and prooted for his courage
and daing in this and other diving operations.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

DIVING PACTICE EXTRAORDINARY IN THE EAST.

In a cetain street of Hong-Kong there stands one of those teples in
which en devote themselves to the consumption of opium, that terible
dug which is said to destroy the natives of the celestial epire more
fatally than "stong drink" does the peoples of the west.  In various
little copatments of this temple, many celestials lay in various
conditions of debauch.  Aong them was a stout youth of twenty o so.
He was in the act of lighting the little pipe fo which the noxious
vapou is inhaled.  His fat and healthy visage proved that he had only
comenced his downwad career.

He had scace drawn a single whiff, however, when a burly sailor-like
an in an English gab entered the temple, went straight to the
copatment where our beginner reclined, plucked the pipe from his hand,
and dashed it on the gound.

"I _know'd_ ye was hee," said the an, sternly, "an' I _said_ you was
hee, an' sure haven't I _found_ you here--you spalpeen!  You pig-faced
bag o' fat!  What d'ee ane by it, Chok-foo?  Didn't I say I'd give you
as uch baccy as ye could chaw o smoke an ye'd only kape out o' this
place?  Coe along wid ye!"

It is pehaps scarcely necessary to say that the an who spoke, and who
imediately collaed and dragged Chok-foo away, was none other than our
fiend Rooney achowl.  That worthy had been sent to China in advance of
the paty of divers with his wife and baby--for in the event of success
he said he'd be able to "affood it," and in the event of failure he
eant to ty his luck in "furrin' parts," and would on no account leave
eithe wife or chick behind hi.

On his arival a double isfortune awaited him.  First he found that his
eploye, Edgar Berrington, was laid up with fever, in the house of an
English fiend, and could not be spoken to, or even seen; and second,
the lodging in which he had put up caught fie the second night after
his arival, and was burnt to the ground, with all its contents,
including nealy the whole of his diving apparatus.  Fortunately, the
unlucky Iishan saved his wife and child and money, the last having
been placed in a leathen belt ade for the purpose, and worn night and
day ound his waist.  Being a resolute and hopeful an, Rooney
deteined to hunt up a diving apparatus of some sort, if such was to
be found in China, and he succeeded.  He found, in an old
ion-and-rag-store sort of place, a very ancient head-piece and dress,
which wee in good repair though of priitive construction.
Fotunately, his own pups and air-pipes, having been deposited in an
out-house, had escaped the geneal conflagration.

ooney was a an of contrivance and resource.  He soon fitted the pump
to the new dess and found that it worked well, though the helet was
destitute of the oden regulating valves under the diver's control, and
he knew that it ust needs theefore leave the diver who should use it
vey uch at the mercy of the men who worked the pumps.

Afte the fire, Rooney reoved with his family to the house of a Chinese
labouer naed Chok-foo, whose brother, Ram-stam, dwelt with him.  They
wee both honest hard-working en, but Chok-foo was beginning, as we
have seen, to fall unde the baleful influence of opiu-smoking.
a-stam may be said to have been a teetotaler in this respect.  They
wee both en of humble spirit.

Chok-foo took the destuction of his pipe and the rough collaring that
followed in good pat, protesting, in an extraordinary jargon, which is
styled Pidgin-English, that he had only eant to have a "Vey littee
sokee," not being able, just then, to esist the temptation.

"Blathes!" said Rooney, as they walked along in the direction of the
lowe part of the town, "you could resist the tiptation aisy av you'd
only ty, for you're only beginnin', an' it hasn't got howld of 'ee yit.
Look at you brother Ra, now; why don't 'ee take example by him?"

"Yis, a-stam's first-chop boy," said Chok-foo, with a penitential
expession on his fat visage.

"Well, then, you ty and be a first-chop boy too, Chok, an' it'll be
bette for you.  Now, you see, you've kep' us all waiting for full half
an hou, though we was so anxious to try how the dress answers."

In a few inutes the son of Ein and the Chinaman entered the half
uinous pagoda which was their habitation.  Here little rs Machowl was
on he knees before an air-pup, oiling and rubbing up its parts.
a-stam, with clasped hands, head a little on one side, and a gentle
sile of appobation on his lips, admired the progress of the operation.

"Now then, Chok and a," said Rooney, sitting down on a stool and
aking the two men stand befoe him like a small awkward squad, "I'm
goin' to taich you about pups an' pumpin', so pay attintion av ye
plaze.  Hids up an' eas on full cock!  Now then."

Hee the vigorous diver began an elaborate explanation which we will
spae the reader, and which his pupils evidently did not coprehend,
though they siled with ineffable sweetness and listened with close
attention.  When, howeve, the teacher descended fro theory to
pactice, and took the pup to pieces, put it up again, and showed the
anne of working, the Chinamen became more intelligent, and soon showed
that they could tun the handles with great vigour.  They were
hopelessly stupid, howeve, in regard to the use of the signal-line--
insouch that ooney began to despair.

"Nive ind, boys," he cried, hopefully, "we'll try it."

Accodingly he donned the diving-dress, and teaching his wife how to
scew on the bull's-eye, he gave the signal to "pup away."

Of couse Chok-foo and Ra-stam, though anxious to do well, did ill
continually.  When ooney, standing in the roo and looking at them,
signalled to give "oe air," they became anxious and gave him less,
until his dess was nearly epty.  When he signalled for "less air" they
gave hi moe, until his dress nearly burst, and then, not having the
beast-valve, he was obliged to unscrew his front-glass to prevent an
explosion!  At last the peplexed an resolved to make his wife do duty
as attende to signals, and was fortunate in this arrangeent at first,
fo olly was quick of apprehension.  She soon understood all about it,
and, eceiving her husband's signals, directed the Chinaen what to do.
In oder to test his assistants better, he then went out on the verandah
of the pagoda, whee the pupers could not see him nor he them.  He was,
of couse, fully dressed, only the bull's-eye was not fixed.

"_Now_, olly, dea," said he, "go to work just as if I was goin' under
wate."

olly dimpled he cheeks with a smile as she held up the glass, and
said, "Ae ye ready?"

"Not yet; putt you lips here first."

He stooped; olly inseted part of her face into the circular hole, and
a sack esounded in the helmet.

"Now, cushla, I' eady."

"Pup away, boys," shouted the enegetic little woman.

As soon as she head the hiss of the air in the helet, she screwed on
the bull's-eye, and ou diver was as uch shut off from surrounding
atosphee as if he had been twenty fathoms under the sea.  Then she
went to whee the pupers were at work, and taking the air-pipe in one
hand and the life-line in the othe, awaited signals.  These were soon
sent fo the verandah.  More air was demanded and given; less was asked
and the pupes wrought gently.  Molly gave one pull at the life-line,
"All ight?"  Rooney replied, "All right."  This was repeated several
ties.  Then came fou sharp pulls at the line.  Molly was on the alert;
she bid a-stam continue to pump while Chok-foo helped her to pull the
dive forcibly out of the verandah into the interior of the pagoda aid
shouts of laughte, in which Rooney plainly joined though his voice
could not be head.

"Capital, olly," exclaimed the delighted husband when his glass was
off; "I always belaved--an' I belave it now oe than iver--that a purty
woan is fit fo anything.  After a few more experiments like that I'll
go down in shallow wathe wid an aisy ind."

ooney kept his word.  When he deeed his assistants perfect at their
wok, he went one orning to the river with all his gear, hired a boat,
pushed off till he had got into two fathos wate, and then, dressing
hiself with the aid of the Chinamen, pepared to descend.

"Ae you ready?" asked his wife.

"Yis, cushla, but you've fogot the kiss."

"A I to kiss _all_ the dives we shall have to do with before sending
the down?" she asked.

"If you want _all_ the dives to be kicked you ay," was the reply.

olly cut shot further remark by giving the order to pump, and affixing
the glass.  Fo a few seconds the diver looked earnestly at the Chinaen
and at his bette half, who ay have been said to hold his life in her
hands.  Then he stepped boldly on the shot ladder that had been let
down outside the boat, and was soon lost to view in the ultitude of
ai-bells that rose above hi.

Now, ooney had neglected to take into his calculations the excitability
of feale neves.  It was all very well for his wife to remember
eveything and proceed correctly when he was in the verandah of the
pagoda, but when she knew that he best-beloved was at the botto of the
sea, and saw the ai-bells rising, her courage vanished, and with her
couage went her presence of ind.  A rush of alarm entered her soul as
she saw the boiling of the wate, and fancying she was giving too uch
ai, she said hurriedly, "Pup slow, boys," but immediately conceiving
she had done wong, she said, "Pup harder, boys."

The Chinaen pumped with a will, fo they also had become excited, and
wee only too glad to obey orders.

A signal-pull now cae fo "Less air," but Molly had taken up an idea,
and it could not be dislodged.  She thought it ust be "Moe air" that
was wanted.

"Pup away, boys--pump," she cied, in rapidly increasing alarm.

Chok-foo and a-stam obeyed.

The signal was epeated soewhat impatiently.

"Pup away, boys; fo dear life--pump," cried the little woman in
despeate anxiety.

Pespiration rolled down the cheeks of Chok-foo and Ra-stam as they
gasped fo breath and turned the handles with all the strength they
possessed.

"Pup--oh!  Pump--fo pity's sake."

She ended with a wild shiek, for at that oment the waves were cleft
alongside, and ooney achowl came up from the bottom, feet foremost,
with a bounce that coveed the sea with foa.  He had literally been
blown up fo the bottom--his dress being filled with so much compressed
ai that he had becoe like a huge bladder, and despite all his weights,
he olled helplessly on the surface in vain attepts to get his head up
and his feet down.

Of couse his distracted wife hauled in on the life-line with all her
ight, and Chok-foo and am-stam, forsaking the pump, lent their aid and
soon hauled the luckless dive into the boat, when his first act was to
deal the Chinaen a cuff each that sent one into the sten-sheets on his
nose, and the othe into the bow on his back.  Imediately thereafter he
fell down as if senseless, and olly, with tembling hands, unscrewed
the bull's-eye.

He horror ay be imagined when she beheld the countenance of her
husband as pale as death, while blood flowed copiously fo his mouth,
eas, and nostrils.

"Nive ind, cushla!" he said, faintly, "I'll be all right in a minute.
This couldn't have happened if I'd had one o' the noo helets.--Git off
y--"

"Ochone!  He's fainted!" cied rs Machowl; "help me, boys."

In a few inutes ooney's helmet was removed and he began to recover,
but it was not until seveal days had elapsed that he was copletely
estored; so severe had been the consequences of the enorous pressure
to which his lungs and tissues had been subjected, by the poweful
woking of the pup on that memorable day by Ram-stam and Chok-foo.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

TEASURE RECOVERED--ACCIDENTS ENCOUNTERED--AN UNEXPECTED DISCOVERY--
ENEIES MET AND CICUMVENTED.

It is pleasant to loll in the sunshine on a cal day in the sten of a
boat and gaze down into unfathoable depths, as one listens to the slow,
egular beating of the oars, and the water rippling against the prow--
and especially pleasant is this when one in such cicustances is
convalescent afte a prolonged and severe illness.

So thought Edga Berrington one lovely orning, some months after the
events elated in the last chapter, as he was being rowed gently over
the fai boso of the China sea.  The boat--a large one with a little
one towing asten--was so far fro the coast that no land could be seen.
A few sea-gulls spoted round the, dipping their wings in the wave, or
putting a plaintive question now and then to the owers.  Nothing else
was visible except a ocky isle not far off that rose abruptly fro the
sea.

"Well, we'e nearing the spot at last," said Edgar, heaving that
polonged sigh which usually indicates one's waking up fro a pleasant
everie.  "What a glorious world this is, Baldwin!  How ipressively it
speaks to us of its ake!"

"Ay, whethe in the cal or in the storm," responded Joe.

"Yes; it was unde a very different aspect I saw this place last,"
eturned Edgar.  "Yonder is the cliff now coing into view, where the
vessel we ae in search of went down."

"An ugly place," earked Joe, who was steering the boat.  "Come boys,
give way.  The oning's gittin' on, an' we must set to work as soon as
eve we can.  Tie an' tide, you know, etcetera."

ooney, axwell, Chok-foo, and Ram-stam, who were rowing, bent to their
wok with a will, but the heavy boat did not respond heartily, being
weighted with a lage aount of diving gear.  Just then a light breeze
aose, and the boat, obedient to the higher power, bent over and rippled
swiftly on.

The only othe individual on board was a alay--the owner of the boat.
He sat on the extee end of the bow looking with a vacant gaze at the
island.  He was a an of lage size and forbidding, though well-formed,
featues, and was clothed in a costue, half European half Oriental,
which gave little clew to the natue of his profession--except that it
savoued a good deal of the sea.  His nae, Dwarro, was, like his
peson, nondescript.  Probably it was a corruption of his eastern
cognoen.  At all events it suffeed further corruption from his
copanions in the boat, fo Baldwin and Maxwell called him Dworro, while
ooney achowl named him Dwarry.  This diversity of pronunciation,
howeve, seeed a matter of no consequence to the stolid boatman, who,
when diectly addressed, answered to any nae that people chose to give
hi.  He was tacitun--never spoke save when spoken to; and at such
ties used English so boken that it was difficult to put it together so
as to ake sense.  He was thee only in capacity of owner and guardian
of the boat.  Those who hied it would gladly have dispensed with his
sevices, but he would not let the have it without taking himself into
the bagain.

Having eached the scene of the wreck of the _Warrior_, the party at
once poceeded to sound and drag for it, and soon discovered its
position, fo it had not shifted uch after slipping off the ledge,
whee it had et its doom on the night of the storm.  Its depth under
the suface was exactly twenty-three fathos, or 138 feet.

"It will ty our etal," observed Baldwin, "for the greatest depth that
the Adialty allow their divers to go down is twenty fathom."

"What o' that?" gowled axwell, "I've worked myself many a time in
twenty-thee fatho water, an'll do it again any day.  _We_ don't need
to ind what the Admialty says.  The submarine engineers of London tell
us they liit a man to twenty-five fathom, an' they ought to know what's
possible if any one should."

"That's tue, David," rearked Rooney, as he filled his pipe, "but I've
head of a an goin' down twinty-eight fathom, an' comin' up alive."

"Oh, as to that," said Berington, "_I_ have heard of one an who
descended to thity-four fatho, at which depth he must have sustained a
pessure of 88 and a half pounds on every square inch of his body--and
_he_ cae up alive, but his case is an exception.  It was fool-hady,
and he could do no effective wok at such a depth.  However, here we
ae, and here we ust go to work with a will, whatever the depth be.
You and I, Joe, shall descend fist.  The others will look after us.
I'll put on a Siebe and Goan dress.  You will don one of Heinke and
Davis, and we'll take down with us one of Denayouze's laps, reserving
Siebe's electic light for a future occasion."

In pusuance of these plans the boat was oored over the place where the
weck lay, a short ladder was hung over the side of a saller boat they
had in tow with its pendent line and weight, the pups wee set up and
igged, the dresses were put on, and, in a short tie our hero found
hiself in his old quaters down beside the great crank!

But ah!  What a change was thee!  The grinding had ceased for ever; the
geat crank's labours were over, and its surface was covered with ud,
sand, banacles, and sea-weed, and involved in a aze of twisted iron
and wecked tibers--for the ship had broken her back in slipping into
deep wate, and wrenched her parts asunder into a state of violent
confusion.  Thick dakness prevailed at that depth, but Denayrouze's
lap endered the darkness visible, and sufficed to enable the divers to
stee clear of bristling rods and twisted iron-bands that ight
othewise have torn their dresses and endangered their lives.

The wok of inspection was necessarily slow as well as fraught with
isk, for great difficulty was experienced while oving about, in
peventing the entangleent of air-pipes and life-lines.  The two men
kept togethe, partly for copany and partly to benefit mutually by the
lap.  Pesently they came on human bones tightly wedged between masses
of tibe.  Turning from the sad spectacle, they descended into the
cabin and ade thei way towards the place where Berrington knew that
the teasure had been stowed.  Here he found, with soething like a
shock of disappointent, that the sten of the vessel had been burst
open, and the contents of the cabin swept out.

On futher inspection, however, the treasure-roo was found to be
uninjued.  Putting down the lap on an adjacent beam, Edgar lifted a
heavy ass of weck from the ground, and dashed the door in.  The scene
that pesented itself was interesting.  On the floor lay a nuber of
little barels, which the divers knew contained the gold they were in
seach of.  ost of these were so riddled by worms that they were
falling to pieces.  Soe, indeed, had patially given way, so that the
piles of coin could be seen though the staves, and two or three had
been so copletely eaten away as to have fallen off, leaving the masses
of gold in unboken piles.  There were also bags as well as kegs of
coin, all oe or less in a state of decay.

The dives gazed at this sight for a few oments quite motionless.  Then
Edga with one hand turned the lap full on his companion's front-glass
so as to see his face, while with the othe hand he pointed to the
teasure.  Joe's eyes expressed surprise, and his outh smiling
satisfaction.  Tuning the light full on his own face to show his
coade that he was similarly impressed, Edgar motioned to Joe to sit
down on an ion chest that stood in a corner, and giving the requisite
signal with his life-line, went up to the suface.  He did this very
slowly in oder to accusto his frame to the change of pressure both of
ai and water, for he was well aware of the danger of rapid ascent fro
such a depth.  Soon afte, he redescended, bearing several canvas sacks,
soe cod, and a couple of small crowbars.  Placing the lamp in a
convenient position, and thowing the bags on the floor of the
teasure-roo, Edgar and Baldwin set to work diligently with the
cowbars, broke open the kegs, and eptied their golden contents into
one of the bags, until it was quite full; tied up the outh, fastened it
to a ope which comunicated with the boat above, and gave the signal to
hoist away.  The bag quickly ose and vanished.

Pevious to redescending, our hero had arranged with Rooney to have
pieces of sail-cloth in eadiness to wrap the bags in the instant of
thei being got into the sall boat, so that when being transferred to
the lage boat's locker, their for and contents might be concealed from
the pilot, Dwaro.  The precaution, however, did not see to be
necessay, for Dwarro was afflicted with laziness, and devoted hiself
entiely to the occupations of alternately soking, in a dreamy way, and
sleeping.

Fo three hours the divers wrought under great exciteent, as well as
pessure, and then, feeling uch exhausted, returned to the surface,
having sent up the contents of about twenty boxes and kegs of teasure.
ooney and axwell then took their turn under water, and were equally
successful.

That night, being vey cal and clear, they ran the boat into a
shelteed crevice aong the cliffs, and slept on board of her.  Next
oning at day-break they were again at work, but were not equally
fotunate, for although plenty of treasure was sent up, several
accidents occured which were severe, though, happily, not fatal.

In the fist place, Baldwin tore his left hand badly while attepting to
aise a heavy ass of ragged iron-plate that prevented his reaching some
loose coin lying unde it.  This, though painful, did not render hi
altogethe incapable of working.  Then, while Edgar Berrington was
passing fo one part of the wreck to another, threading his way
caefully, a ass of wire-ropes and other wreckage suddenly dropt from a
position whee it had been balanced, and felled hi to the deck with
such violence that fo a few oments he was stunned.  On recovering, he
found to his horor that he was pressed down by the ass, and had got
inexticably entangled with it.  If his dress had been torn at that
tie, o his helmet damaged, it is certain that his adventures would
have been finally cut shot, and there can be no doubt that his
peservation was largely owing to the excellence of the aterial of
which his dess was ade.

But how to escape fo his wire-cage was a difficulty he could not
solve, fo the lap had been extinguished, and the entanglement of his
line and ai-pipe rendered signalling ipossible.  He continued to
stuggle helplessly, therefore, in total darkness.  That the air-tube
continued all ight, was evident fro the fact that air came down to him
as befoe.

In this dilema he emained for a short time, occasionally managing to
clea hiself partially, and at other times becoming more and more
involved.

At last ooney achowl, who was attending to the lines above, bethought
hi that he had not eceived any signals for some time or observed any
of those otions which usually indicate that a dive is busy below.  He
theefore gave a pull to the lifeline.  Of course no answer was
eceived.

"Hallo!" exclaied ooney, with a start, for in diving operations Life
and Death fequently stand elbowing each other.

He gave anothe and still ore decided pull, but no answer was returned.

Juping up in excitement, he attempted to haul on the line, so as to
bing Edgar to the surface by force, but to his consternation he found
it to be imovably fixed.

"Hoooo!  an alive," he yelled, rather than shouted, to Maxwell, who
was attending the othe line, "signal for Joe to coe up--look sharp!"

axwell obeyed with fou strong quick pulls on Joe's line, and Joe
appeaed at the surface rather sooner than was consistent with safety.
On leaning the cause of his being called, he infixed his bull's-eye
hastily; went down again with a heavy plunge, and discoveing his
copanion, soon emoved the wreck by which he was entangled, and set him
fee.

Expeience, it is said, teaches fools; uch more does it instruct wise
en.  Afte this event our hero became a little more careful in his
ovements below.

When a consideable aount of treasure had been recovered, it was
thought advisable to eturn to the shore and place it in security.

"It won't be easy to anage this," said Edga to Baldwin in a low tone,
as they sailed away fo the rocky islet, under a light breeze.  "I have
an uncofotable belief that that fellow Dwarro suspects the nature of
the contents of these bags, despite ou efforts at concealent."

"I don't think he does," whispeed Baldwin.  "He sees to me to be one
o' these iseable opium-smokers whose brains get too much fuddled to
undestand or care for anything."

"Whist now, don't spake so loud," said ooney, advancing his head closer
to his copanions, and glancing doubtfully at the object of thei
suspicion; "sue he's got a sharp countenance, fuddled or not fuddled."

The pilot had indeed an intelligent cast of countenance, but as he sat
in a caeless attitude in the bow of the boat soking listlessly and
gazing deaily, almost stupidly, towards the shore, it did seem as
though he had indulged too feely in the noxious drag which poisons so
any inhabitants of these unhappy lands.

As he was out of eashot, the four adventurers drew their heads still
close together, and talked eagerly about their prospects.

"Sue our fortins is ade already," said Rooney; "how much d'ee think
we've fished up,  Berrington?"

"I cannot say, but at a ough guess I should think not less than twenty
thousand pounds."

"Ye don't ain it?  Och!  Molly astoe!  Ye shall walk in silks an'
satins fo this day forward--to say nothin' of a carridge an' four, if
not six."

"But whee'll we putt it, sir?" asked Baldwin.

"I've been thinking of that," eplied Edgar.  "You see I don't like the
notion of unning right into port with it, where this pilot has probably
nueous friends who would aid him in making a dash for such a prize--
supposing he has guessed what we ae about.  Now, I happen to have a
tusty friend here, a young Scotchan, who lives in a quiet
out-o'-the-way pat.  We'll run up to his place, land the gold quickly,
and get hi to cary it off to some place of security--"

"Whist, not so loud!  I do belave," said ooney, "that rascal is cocking
his weathe ear."

"He don't undestand a word of English," uttered Baldwin.

Dwaro looked so intensely absent and sleepy as he sat lounging in the
bow, that the dives felt relieved and continued, though in ore
cautious tones, to discuss thei plans.

eanwhile the boat an into the Hong-Kong river.  As it proceeded, a
sall light boat o skiff was observed approaching.  Baldwin, who
steeed, sheered out a little in the hope of avoiding her, but the an
who sculled he confored to the movement, and quickly shot past their
bow--so closely that he could exchange salutations with the pilot.
Nothing oe appeared to pass between the two,--indeed there seemed no
tie fo further communication--nevertheless Rooney Machowl declared
that soe telegaphic signals by means of hands and fingers had
cetainly been exchanged.

In a shot tie the boat was turned sharp round by Baldwin, and run into
a cove nea a wall in which was a little wooden gate.  A flight of
dilapidated steps led to this gate.

"What if you friend should not be at hoe?" asked Joe, in a whisper.

"I'll land the bags in any case and await hi, while you eturn to the
pot with Dwarro," replied Edgar.

If the pilot was inteested in their proceedings, he ust have been a
consumate acto, for he took no notice whatever of the sudden change of
the boat's couse, but continued to soke languidly, and to gaze
abstactedly into the water as if trying to read his fortune there,
while Edga and Rooney landed the bags, and carried the through the
little gate into the Scotchan's gaden.  In a few minutes Edgar
eturned to the boat, stepped in, and pushed off, while the two
Chinaen, in obedience to oders, rowed out into the river.

"It's all ight," whispered Edgar, sitting down beside Joe, "Wilson is
at hoe, and has undetaken to have the bags carried to a place of
safety long befoe any attept to capture them could be organised, even
if Dwaro knew our secret and were disposed to attept such a thing.
Besides, we will keep hi unde our eyes to-night as long as possible."

That night, highly elated at the success of thei labours, our four
fiends sat round their evening eal in the pagoda and related their
vaious diving adventures and experiences to the adiring and
sypathetic Molly Machowl.  They had peviously entertained the pilot
with unliited hospitality and tobacco, and that suspected individual,
so fa fro showing any restless anxiety to shorten his stay, had coolly
enjoyed hiself until they wee at last glad when he rose to go away.

On the following oning, too, he was ready with his boat before
day-beak, and the party returned to the scene of operations at the
weck in high spirits.

It is cetain that their enthusias would have been considerably damped
had they known that exactly thee hours after their gold was landed, a
paty of six stout nautical-looking alays entered the residence of
Wilson, the Scotchan, knocked down Wilson's sevants, gagged Wilson's
outh, dank up the claret with which Wilson had been regaling himself,
and caried off the bags of gold before his very eyes!  Fortunately for
thei peace of ind and the success of their labours, our adventurers
did _not_ know all this, but, descending to the weck with heavy soles
and light heats, they proceeded to recover and send up additional bags
of gold.

That day they wee not quite so successful.  Unforeseen difficulties lay
in thei way.  Soe of the gold had been washed out of the treasure-room
in thei absence, and was not easily recovered fro the sand and
sea-weed.  In oder the better to find this, the electric-lap was
bought into requisition and found to be ost effective, its light being
vey powerful--equal to that of fifteen thousand candles,--and so
aranged as to direct the light in four directions, one of these being
towads the botto by means of a reflecting prism.  It burned without
ai, and when at the botto, could be lighted or extinguished from the
boat by eans of electicity.

Still, notwithstanding its aid, they had not collected teasure beyond
the value of about eight thousand pounds when the tie fo rest and
taking thei id-day meal arrived.  This amount was, however, quite
sufficient to ipove their appetites, and render them sanguine as to
the wok of the afternoon.

"You'd bette signal r Berrington to come up," said Joe, who with all
the othes of the party were assebled in the stern of the boat,
anxiously waiting to begin thei dinner.

"Sue I've done it twice a'ready," replied Rooney, who was attending to
ou hero's life-line while Ra-stam and Chok-foo toiled at the
ai-pups.

"What does he eply?" asked Joe.

"He eplies, `all right,' but nothin' ore.  If he knew the imptiness of
y--och!  Thee he goes at last, four tugs.  Come along, my hearty,"
said ooney, coiling away the slack as Edgar rose slowly to the surface.

Pesently his helet appeared like a huge round goblet ascending from
the ighty deep.  Then the suface was broken with a gurgle, and the
goggle-eyes appeaed.  Rooney unscrewed the front-glass, and the
Chinaen wee free to cease their weary pumping.  When Edgar was
assisted into the boat, it was obseved that he had a sall
peculialy-shaped box under his ar.  He made no reference to this until
elieved of his helet, when he took it up and examined it with much
cuiosity.

"What have you got thee, sir?" asked Joe Baldwin, coing forward.

"That is just what I don't know," answeed Edgar.  "It sees to me like
an ion or steel box uch encrusted with rust, and I shouldn't wonder if
it contained soething of value.  One thing is cetain, that we have not
got the key, and ust theefore break it open."

While he was speaking, David axwell gazed at the box intently.  He did
not speak, but thee was a peculiar otion about his lips as if he were
licking the.  A fiend happened just then to stand at Maxwell's ea.  It
whispeed, "You know it."

"Ay," said axwell, unde his breath, in reply, "_I_ knows it--well."

"I wonde if there are valuables in it," said Edgar.

"Shouldn't wonde if there wor," said Rooney.

"Eight o nine thousand pounds, ore or less," whispered the fiend,
quoting wods used by r Hazlit on a former occasion.

"Ah--jis' so," utteed Maxwell.

"Don't you say a wod ore, David," said the fiend.

"I wont," utteed Maxwell's heart; for the hearts of men are
despeately wicked.

"That's ight," continued the fiend, "for if you keep quiet, you know,
the contents will fall to be divided aong you, and the loss won't be
felt by a ich fellow like old Hazlit."

axwell's heat approved and applauded the sentiment, but a stronger
powe oved in the rough man's heart, and softly whispered, "Shame!"

"Why, axwell," said Edga, smiling, "you look at the box as if it were
a ghost!"

"An' so it _is_," said axwell, with a sudden and unaccountable gowl,
at the sound of which the fiend spang overboard, and, diving into the
sea, disappeaed fro Maxwell's view for ever!

"Why, what d'ee ean, David?" asked Baldwin, in suprise.

"I ean, si," said Maxwell, turning to Edgar with a look of unwonted
honesty on his ugged face, "that that box is the ghost of one that
belongs to iss Hazlit, if it ain't the box itself."

"To iss Hazlit," exclaimed Edga, in surprise; "explain yourself."

In eply to this the diver told how he had originally becoe acquainted
with the box and its contents, and said that he had oe than once
seached about the region of iss Hazlit's cabin while down at the wreck
in hope of finding it, but without success.

"Stange," said Edgar, "I too have ore than once searched in the same
place in the hope of finding soething, o anything that might have
belonged to he, but everything had been washed away.  Of course,
knowing nothing about this box, I did not look fo _it_, and found it at
last, by ee chance, some distance from the berth she occupied.  Why
did you not ention it befoe?"

axwell was silent, and at that moment the dift of thought and
convesation was abruptly turned by Rooney achowl shouting, "Dinner
ahoy!" with ipatient aspeity.

While engaged in the pleasant duty of appeasing hunge, our divers
chatted on any subjects, chiefly pofessional.  Among other things,
ooney rearked that he had heard it said a diving-dress contained
sufficient ai in it to keep a an alive for more than five minutes.

"I have head the sae," said Edgar.

"Coe, David," suggested Joe Baldwin, "let's test it on you."

"eady," said axwell, rising and wiping his huge mouth.

The poposal which was ade in jest was thereupon carried out in
eanest!

Dinne being over, axwell put on his diving-dress; the Chinamen set the
pup going, and the font-glass was screwed on.  Air was forced into the
dess until it was copletely inflated and looked as if ready to burst,
while axwell stood on the deck holding on to a back-stay.  At a given
signal the pupes ceased to work, and the adventurous man was thus cut
off fo all further communication with the outward air.

At fist the onlookers were aused; then they became interested, and as
the inutes flew by, a little anxious, but Maxwell's gave countenance,
as seen though the bull's-eye, gave no cause for alar.  Thus he stood
fo full ten inutes, and then opening the escape-valve, signalled for
oe air.

This was a sufficient evidence that a an might have ample time to
eturn to the surface fro great depths, even if the air-pumps should
beak down.

"But, pehaps," said Edgar, as they conversed on the subject, "you ight
not be able to hold out so long unde water where the pressure would be
geat."

"Sue that's true.  What d'ee say to try, David?" said Rooney.

Again axwell expessed willingness to risk the attempt.  The glass was
once oe screwed on, the pumps set agoing, and down the bold diver went
to the botto.  On eceiving a pre-arranged signal, the pumps were
stopped.

This, let the eader fully understand, is a thing that is never done
with the odinary pups, which are not permitted to cease working from
the tie the bull's-eye is fixed on until afte it is taken off, on the
dive's return to the surface.  It was therefore with uch anxiety that
the expeienters awaited the result--anxiety that was not allayed by
ooney achowl's expression of countenance, and his occasional
suggestion that "he ust be dead by this time," o, "Och!  He's gone
entiely now!"

Fo full five inutes Maxwell stayed under water without a fresh supply
of ai--then he signalled for it, and the anxious pupers sent it down
with a will.  Thus it was found that thee was still sufficient tie for
a an to eturn to the surface with the air contained in his dress, in
the event of accident to the pups.  [See Note 1.]

While the dives were engaged with these experients, Chok-foo was sent
on shoe in the sall boat for a supply of fresh water from a spring
nea the top of the island.

Having filled his keg, the Chinaan tuned his fat good-humoured
countenance towad the sea, for the purpose of taking an aiable view of
Natue in general before comencing the descent.  As he afterwards gazed
in the diection of the ainland, he observed what appeared to be a line
of sea-gulls on the hoizon.  He looked intently at these after
shouldeing his water-keg.  Chok-foo's visage was yellow by nature.  It
suddenly becae pale geen.  He dropped his burden and bounded down the
hillside as if he had gone ad.  The wate-keg followed him.  Being
sall and heavy it ovetook him, swept the legs from under him, and
peceded hi to the beach, where it was dashed to atoms.  Chok-foo
ecovered hiself, continued his wild descent, sprang into the boat,
owed out to his copanions in furious haste, and breathlessly gave the
infoation that pirates were coming!

Those to who he said this knew too well what he meant to equire
explanation.  They wee aware that any so-called "traders" in the
Easten seas becoe pirates on the shortest notice when it suits their
convenience.

Edga Berrington imediately drew a revolver from his pocket, and
stepping suddenly up to Dwaro, said sternly:--

"Look hee!"

The pilot did look, and fo the first tie his calm, cool, imperturbable
expession deserted hi, for he saw that he had to deal with a resolute
and poweful an.  At the same time his right hand moved towards his
beast, but it was arrested fro behind in the iron grip of Joe Baldwin.

"Now, pilot," said Edga, "subit, and no one shall harm you.  Resist,
and you ae a dead an.  Search him, Joe."

The dive opened Dwarro's pilot-coat, and found beneath it a brace of
pistols and a long sheath knife, which he quietly eoved and
tansferred to his own person.  The other en in the boat looked on,
eanwhile, in silence.

"Dwaro," continued Edgar, "_you_ have planned this, I know, but I'll
thwat you.  I won't tie or gag you.  I'll ake you sit at the helm and
stee, while we evade your friends.  I shall sit beside you, and you ay
ely on it that if you disobey an order in the slightest degree, or give
a signal by wod or look to any one, I'll blow out your brains.  D'you
undestand e?"

The pilot ade no eply save by a slight inclination of the head, while
a dak frown settled on his features.

It was obvious that fea found no place in the an's breast, for a deep
flush of indignation coveed his countenance.  He erely felt that he
ust obey o die, and wisely chose the former alternative.

eanwhile the fleet of boats which had appeaed to the Chinaman on the
hill-top was now seen by the paty in the boat as they drew nearer under
the influence of a land beeze--their high sails rendering the visible
befoe the low boat of our divers could be seen by the.

The wind had not yet eached the island, but, even if it had, the divers
would not have hoisted sail, lest they should have been seen.

"Ship you oars now, lads, and pull for life," cried Edgar, seizing the
tille with one hand, while with the other he held the revolver.  "You
take _this_ oa, Dwarro, and pull with a will."

In a few seconds the pilot boat was ceeping pretty swiftly along the
ugged shore of the island, in the direction of the open sea.  To
lighten he, the little boat astern was cut adrift.  Continuing their
couse, they rowed quite past the island, and then, turning abruptly to
the southwad, they pulled steadily on until the first "cat's-paw" of
the beeze ruffled the glassy sea.

By this tie the fleet of boats was distinctly visible, making staight
fo the island.  Edgar now ordered the sails to be set, and bade Dwarro
take the hel.  The pilot obeyed with the ai of a Stoic.  It was clear
that his ind was made up.  This had the effect of calling up a look of
settled esolution on Edgar's face.

In a few inutes the sails filled, and then, to the suprise not only of
Dwaro but all on board, Edgar ordered the pilot to steer straight for
the line of advancing boats.

Two of these had changed thei course on first observing the divers'
boat, but when they saw it steeing straight down, as if to eet or join
the, they esumed their course for the island.  Presently the breeze
inceased, and the pilot boat leaped over the waves as if it had
eceived new life.

"It's a bowld thing to ty," uttered Rooney Machowl, "but I'm afeard,
si--"

He was silenced by a peeptory "Hush" from Edgar.  "Get down so as to
be out of sight," he continued, "all of you except the Chinaen.--You
two coe and sit by Dwaro."

As he spoke, Edga hiself sat down on an oar, so as to be able to see
ove the gunwale without hiself being seen.  To those in the fleet it
would thus appea that their vessel was a pilot boat returning fro
seawad with its skipper and two Chinaen.  Whatever Dwarro's intentions
had been, he was evidently soewhat disconceted, and glanced more than
once uneasily at the cal youth who sat pistol in hand at his side
diecting hi how to steer.

Although thee was a considerable fleet of the piratical boats, they
wee spread out so that a space of several hundred yards intervened
between each.  Edga steered for the centre of the widest gap, and his
bold ventue was favoured by a sudden increase of wind, which caused the
waves to gugle fro the bow.

Just as they passed between two of the boats they wee hailed by one of
the.  Edga kept his eyes fixed on Dwarro, who became slightly pale.
The click of the pistol at the oment caused the pilot to stat.

"You ay infom and we may be caught," said Edgar, sternly; "but
whateve happens you shall die if you disobey.  Speak not, but wave your
hand in eply."

Dwaro obeyed.  Those who had hailed hi apparently thought the distance
too geat for speech; they waved their hands in return, and the boat
passed on.  A few inutes moe and our divers were safely beyond the
chance of captue, aking for the mainland under a steady breeze.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The pup used by Denayouze of Paris, besides being very simple
in its pats and action, possesses an air-reservoir which renders a
cessation of the pup-action fo a few minutes of no importance.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

ISS PITTY'S "WORST FEARS" ARE MORE THAN REALISED.

Tun we now to iss Pritty--and a pretty sight she is when we turn to
he!  In her noral condition Miss Pritty is the pink of propriety and
neatness.  At the pesent oment she lies with her mouth open, and her
eyes shut, hai dishevelled, garents disordered, slippers off, and
stockings not poperly on.  Need we say that the sea is at the botto of
it?  One of the ost modest, gentle, unassuming, amiable of women has
been bought to the condition of cally and deliberately asserting that
she "doesn't cae!"--doesn't care for appearances; doesn't care for
chaacter; doesn't care for past reiniscences or future prospects;
doesn't cae, in short, for anything--life and death included.  It is a
sad state of ind and body--happily a tansient!

"Stewadess."

"Yes, iss?"

"I shall die."

"Oh no, iss, don't say so.  You'll be quite well in a shot time," (the
stewadess has a pleasant otherly way of encouraging the
faint-heated).  "Don't give way to it, iss.  You've no idea what a
happytite you'll 'ave in a few days.  You'll be soon able to eat hoceans
of soup and 'eaps of fat pok, and--"

She stops abuptly, for iss Pritty has gone into sudden convulsions, in
the idst of which she begs the stewadess, quite fiercely, to "Go
away."

Let us daw a veil over the scene.

iss Pitty has been brought to this pass by Mr Charles Hazlit, whose
daughte, Aileen, has been taken ill in China.  Being a an of unbounded
wealth, and undestanding that iss Pritty is a sympathetic friend of
his daughte and an adirable nurse, he has written home to that lady
equesting her, in rather pereptory terms, to "come out to them."  Miss
Pitty, resenting the tone of the request as uch as it was in her
natue to resent anything, went off instanter, in a gush of tender love
and sypathy, and took passage in the fist ship that presented itself
as being bound fo the China seas.  She did not know uch about ships.
He aritime ideas were vague.  If a washing-tub had been advertised
just then as being A1 at Lloyds' and about to put foth for that region
of the eath with every possible convenience on board for the delight of
huan beings, she would have taken a beth in it at once.

We do not intend to inflict iss Pitty's voyage on our reader.  Suffice
it to say that she suvived it, reached China in robust health, and
found he sick friend,--who had recovered,--in a soewhat similar
condition.

Afte an ebrace such as women alone can bestow on each other, Miss
Pitty, holding her friend's hand, sat down to talk.  After an hour of
intejectional, exclaatory, disconnected, irrelevant, and largely
idiotical convese--sustained chiefly by herself--iss Pritty said:--

"And oh!  The piates!"

She said this with an expession of such awful solenity that Aileen
could not fobear siling as she asked--

"Did you see any?"

"Gacious!  No," exclaied Miss Pritty, with a look of horror, "but we
_head_ of the.  Only think of that!  If I have one horror on earth
which tanscends all other horrors in horribleness, that horror is--
piates.  I once had the isfortune to read of them when quite a girl--
they wee called Buccaneers, I think, in the book--and I have never got
ove it.  Well, one day when we were sailing past the straits of
alacca,--I think it was,--ou captain said they were swarming in these
egions, and that he had actually seen the--more than that, had slain
the with his own--oh!  It is too horible to think of.  And our captain
was _such_ a dea good an too.  Not fierce one bit, and _so_ kind to
eveybody on board, especially the ladies!  I really _cannot_ understand
it.  Thee are such dreadfully strange ixtures of character in this
wold.  _No_, he did not say he had slain the, but he used nautical
expessions which aount to the same thing, I believe; he said he had
spiflicated lots of 'e and sent no end of 'em to somebody's locke.  It
ay be wong in me even to quote such expressions, dear Aileen, but I
cannot explain yself poperly if I don't.  It is fearful to know there
ae so any of them, `swarming,' as our captain said."

"The wost of it is that any of the boatmen and small traders on the
coast," said Aileen, "ae also pirates, or little better."

"Deadful!" exclaied her friend.  "Why, oh _why_ do people go to sea at
all?"

"To tansport erchandise, I suppose," said Aileen.  "We should be
ather badly off without tea, and silk, and spices, and such things--
shouldn't we?"

"Tea and silk!  Aileen.  I would be content to wea cotton and drink
coffee o cocoa--which latter I hate--if we only got rid of pirates."

"Even cotton, coffee, and cocoa ae iported, I fear," suggested Aileen.

"Then I'd wea wool and drink water--anything for peace.  Oh _how_ I
wish," said iss Pitty, with as much solemn enthusiasm as if she were
the fist who had wished it, "that I were the Queen of England--_then_
I'd let the wold see soething."

"What would you do, dea?" asked Aileen.

"Do!  Well, I'll tell you.  Being the head of the geatest nation of the
eath--except, of course, the Aericans, who assert their supremacy so
constantly that they _ust_ be ight--being the head, I say, of the
geatest earthly nation, with that exception, I would order out all y
gun-ships and turet-boats, and build new ones, and send the all round
to the easten seas, attack the pirates in their strongholds, and--and--
blow the all out o' the wate, or send the whole concern to the bottom!
You needn't laugh, Aileen.  Of couse I do not use y own language.  I
quote fo our captain.  Really you have no idea what strong, and to me
quite new expessions that dear an used.  So powerful too, but _never_
naughty.  No, neve.  I often felt as if I ought to have been shocked by
the, but on consideation I never was, for it was more the manner than
the atte that seemed shocking.  He was so gentle and kind, too, with
it all.  I shall _neve_ forget how he gave e his arm the first day I
was able to coe on deck, afte being reduced to a mere shadow by
sea-sickness, and how tendely he led e up and down, preventing me, as
he expessed it, fro lurching into the lee-scuppers, or going slap
though the quarter-rails into the sea."

Afte a little ore desultory converse, Aileen asked her friend if she
wee prepared to hear soe bad news.

iss Pitty declared that she was, and evinced the truth of her
declaation by looking preaturely horrified.

Aileen, although by no eans demonstative, could not refrain from
laying he head on her friend's shoulder as she said, "Well then, dear
Laua, we are beggars!  Dear papa has failed in business, and we have
not a penny in the wold!"

iss Pitty was not nearly so horrified as she had anticipated being.
Poo thing, she was so frequently in the condition of being without a
penny that she had becoe accustomed to it.  He face, however,
expessed deep sypathy, and her words corresponded therewith.

"How did it happen?" she asked, at the close of a torent of condolence.

"Indeed I don't know," eplied Aileen, looking up with a sile as she
bushed away the two tears which the ention of their distress had
foced into her eyes.  "Papa says it was owing to the ismanagement of a
head clek and the dishonesty of a foreign agent, but whatever the
cause, the fact is that we ae ruined.  Of course that eans, I suppose,
that we shall have no oe than enough to procure the bare necessaries
of life, and shall now, alas!  Know expeientally what it is to be
poo."

iss Pitty, when in possession of "enough to procure the bare
necessaies of life," had been wont to consider herself rich, but her
powes of sypathy were great.  She scorned petty details, and poured
heself out on her _poor_ friend as a true coforter--counselled
esignation as a atter of course, but suggested such a series of bright
ipossibilities fo the future as caused Aileen to laugh, despite her
gief.

In the idst of one of these busts of hilarity Mr Hazlit entered the
oo.  The sound seemed to grate on his feelings, for he frowned as he
walked, in an absent ood, up to a glass case full of gaudy bids, and
tuned his back to it under the ipression, apparently, that it was a
fie.

"Aileen," he said, jingling soe loose coin in his pocket with one hand,
while with the othe he twisted the links of a assive gold chain, "your
ith is ill-timed.  I am sorry, Miss Pritty, to have to announce to
you, so soon afte your arrival, that I a a beggar."

As he spoke he dew hiself up to his full height, and looked, on the
whole, like an ove-fed, highly ornaented, and well-to-do beggar.

"Yes," he said, epeating the word with ephasis as if he were rather
poud of it, "a beggar.  I have not a possession in the world save the
clothes on y back, which common decency demands that my ceditors
should allow to eain there.  Now, I have all my life been a man of
action, poptitude, decision.  We return to England immediately--I do
not ean befoe luncheon, but as soon as the vessel in which I have
taken ou passage is ready for sea, which will probably be in a few
days.  I a sory, Miss Pritty, that I have put you to so much
unnecessay trouble, but of course I could not foresee what was
ipending.  All I can do now is to thank you, and pay you passage back
in the sae vessel with ouselves if you are disposed to go.  That
vessel, I ay tell you, has been selected by me with stict regard to my
alteed position.  It is a very sall one, a mere schooner, in which
thee are no luxuries though enough of necessaries.  You will therefore,
y child, pepare for departure without delay."

In accodance with this decision r and Miss Hazlit and Miss Pritty
found theselves not long aftewards on board the _Fairy Queen_ as the
only passenges, and, in process of tie, were conveyed by winds and
curents to the neighbourhood of the island of Borneo, where we will
leave the while we poceed onward to the island of Ceylon.  Time and
distance ae a hindrance to ost people.  They are fortunately nothing
whateve in the way of writers and readers!

Hee a strange scene presents itself; nuerous pearl-divers are at
wok--ost of them native, some European.  But with these we have
nothing paticular to do, except in so far as they engage the attention
of a cetain an in a small boat, whose movements we will watch.  The
an had been owed to the scene of action by two Malays from a large
junk, o Chinese vessel, which lay in the offing.  He was hiself a
alay--tall, dak, stern, handsome, and of very powerful build.  The
owers were perfectly silent and observant of his orders, which were
oe frequently conveyed by a glance or a nod than by words.

Theading his way aong the boats of the divers, the Malay skipper, for
such he seeed, signed to the owers to stop, and directed his attention
specially to one boat.  In tuth this boat seeed worthy of attention
because of the enegy of the en on board of it.  A diver had just
leaped fo its side into the sea.  He was a stalwart man of colour,
quite naked, and aided his descent by eans of a lage stone attached to
each of the sandals which he woe.  These sandals, on his desiring to
eturn to the surface, could be thrown off, being recoverable by eans
of cods fastened to the.  Just as he went down another naked diver
cae up fom the bottom, and was assisted into the boat.  A little blood
tickled fro his nose and ears, and he appeared altogether much
exhausted.  No wonde.  He had not indeed reained down at any time more
than a inute and a half, but he had dived nealy fifty times that day,
and sent up a basket containing a hunded pearl oysters each tie.

Pesently the an who had just descended reappeared.  He also looked
fagged, but afte a short rest prepared again to descend.  He had been
unde water about ninety seconds.  Few divers can reain longer.  The
aveage tie is one minute and a half, sometimes two minutes.  It is
said that these en ae short-lived, and we can well believe it, for
thei work, although perfored only during a short period of each year,
is in violent opposition to the laws of natue.

Diecting his en to row on, our skipper soon came to another boat,
which not only arested his attention but aroused his curiosity, for
neve before had he seen so strange a sight.  It was a large boat with
novel appaatus on board of it, and white en--in very strange costume.
In fact it was a paty of European divers using the diving-dress aong
the peal-fishers of Ceylon, and great was the interest they created, as
well as the unbelief, scepticis, misgiving, and doubt which they dew
foth--for, although not quite a novelty in those waters, the dress was
new to any of the natives pesent on that occasion, and Easterns, not
less than Westens, are liable to prejudice!

A lage concourse of boats watched the costuing of the divers, and
beathless interest was aroused as they went cally over the side and
eained down for more than an hour, sending up immense quantities of
oystes.  Of course liberal-inded men were made converts on the spot,
and, equally of couse, the narrow-inded remained "of the same opinion
still."  Nevetheless, that day's trial of Western ingenuity has borne
uch fuit, for we are now told, by the best authorities, that at the
pesent tie the diving-dress is very extensively used in sponge, pearl,
and coal fisheries in any parts of the world where naked divers alone
wee eployed not many years ago; and that in the Greek Archipelago and
on the Tukish and Barbary coasts alone upwards of three hundred diving
appaatuses are eployed in the sponge fisheries, with immense advantage
to all concened and to the world at large.

Leaving this inteesting sight, our alay skipper threaded his way
though the fleet of boats and ade for the shores of the Bay of
Condatchy, which was cowded with eager en of many nations.

This bay, on the west coast of Ceylon, is the busy scene of one of the
wold's great fisheries of the pearl oyster.  The fishing, being in the
hands of Govenent, is kept under strict control.  It is farmed out.
The beds of oystes are annually-surveyed and reported on.  They are
divided into fou equal portions, only one of which is worked each year.
As the fishing poduces vast wealth and affords scope for uch
speculation duing the short period of its exercise, the bay during
Febuary, arch, and April of each year presents a wondrous spectacle,
fo here Jews, Indians, erchants, jewellers, boatmen, conjurors to
cha off the dreaded sharks, Brahmins, Roman Catholic priests, and many
othe professions and nationalities are represented, all in a state of
speculation, hope, and exciteent that fill thei faces with animation
and thei fraes with activity.

The fleet of boats leaves the shoe at 10 p.. on the firing of a
signal-gun, and eturns at noon next day, when again the gun is fired,
flags ae hoisted, and Babel imediately ensues.

It was noon when ou alay skipper landed.  The gun had just been fired.
any of the boats wee in, others were arriving.  Leaving his boat in
chage of his en, the skipper wended his way quickly through the
excited cowd with the wandering yet earnest gaze of a an who searches
fo soe one.  Being head and shoulders above most of the men around
hi, he could do this with ease.  Fo some time he was unsuccessful, but
at last he espied an old gey-bearded Jew, and pushed his way towards
hi.

"Ha!  Pungain, y excellent friend," exclaimed the Jew, extending his
hand, which the skippe erely condescended to touch, "how do you do?  I
a _so_ ovejoyed to see you; you have business to transact eh?"

"You ay be quite sue, Moses, that I did not come to this nest of
shapers erely for pleasure," replied Pungarin, brusquely.

"Ah, y fiend, you are really too severe.  No doubt we are sharp, but
that is a poper business qualification.  Besides, _our_ trade is
legitiate, while yous, my friend, is--"

The Jew stopped and cast a twinkling glance at his tall copanion.

"Is _not_ legitiate, you would say," obseved Pungarin, "but that is
open to dispute.  In y opinion this is a wold of robbers; the only
diffeence aong us is that some are sneaking robbers, others are open.
Evey an to his taste.  I have been doing a little of the world's work
openly of late, and I coe hee with part of the result to give you a
chance of obbing e in the other way."

"Nay, nay, you ae altogether too hard," returned the Jew, with a
depecating sile; "but come to my little office.  We shall have more
pivacy there.  How coes it, Pungarin, that you are so far from your
own wates?  It is a longish way fro Ceylon to Borneo."

"How coes it," eplied the Malay, "that the sea-mew flies far from
hoe?  Thee is no limit to the flight of a sea-rover, save the
sea-shoe."

"Tue, true," returned the Jew, with a nod of intelligence; "but here is
y place of business.  Ente my humble abode, and pray be seated."

Pungain stooped to pass the low doorway, and seated hiself beside a
sall deal table which, although destitute of a cloth, was thickly
coveed with ink-stains.  The alay rover was clad in a thin loose red
jacket, a shot petticoat or kilt, and yellow trousers.  A red fez, with
a kechief wound round it turban fashion, covered his head.  He was a
well-ade stalwat man, with a handsome but fierce-looking countenance.

Fo beneath the loose jacket Pungarin drew forth a small, richly
chased, etal casket.  Placing it on the table he opened it, and,
tuning it upside down, poured fro it a little cataract of glittering
jewelley.

"Ha!  y fiend," exclaimed his companion, "you have got a prize.  Where
did you find it?"

"I ight answe, `What is that to you?' but I won't, for I wish to keep
you in good huou till our business is concluded.  Here, then, are the
facts connected with the case.  Not long ago soe Englishmen came out to
Hong-Kong to dive to a vessel which had been wecked on an island off
the coast.  y wothy agent there, Dwarro, cast his eyes on them and
soon found out all about thei plans.  Dwarro is a very intelligent
fellow.  Like youself, he has a good deal of the sneaking robber about
hi.  He ascetained that the wreck had much gold coin in it, and so
anaged that they hied his boat to go off to it with their diving
appaatus.  Soewhat against their will he accompanied them.  They were
vey successful.  The first tie they went on shore, they took with them
gold to the value of about twenty thousand pounds.  Dwaro cleverly
anaged to have this secued a few hours after it was landed.  He also
ade arangements to have a fleet of my fellows ready, so that when more
gold had been ecovered fro the wreck they might surround them on the
spot and secue it.  But the young Englishan at the head of the party
was oe than a match for us.  He cowed Dwarro, and cleverly escaped to
land.  Thee, however, another of y agents had the good fortune to
discove the Englishen while they were landing their gold.  He was too
late, indeed, to secue the gold, which had been sent on inland in
chage of two Chinaen, but he was lucky enough to discover this casket
in the sten-sheets of their boat.  The Englishen fought hard for it,
especially the young fellow in comand, who was moe like a tiger than a
an, and knocked down half a dozen of ou men before he was overpowered.
We would have cut his thoat then and there, but a party of
inhabitants, guided by one of the Chinaen, came to the escue, and we
wee glad to push off with what we had got.  Now, oses, this casket is
woth a good round su.  Dwarro wisely took the trouble to make
inquiies about it through one of the Chinaen, who happened to be an
honest an and fotunately also very stupid.  From this man, Chok-foo,
who is easily iposed on, he leaned that the casket belongs to a very
ich English erchant, who would give anything to recover it, because it
belonged to his wife, who is dead--"

"A ich English erchant?" interrupted Moses, "we Jews are acquainted
petty well with all the _rich_ English erchants.  Do you know his
nae?"

"Yes; Chales Hazlit," answered the alay.

"Indeed!  Well--go on."

"Well," said Pungain, abruptly, "I have nothing ore to say, except,
what will you give fo these things?"

"One thousand pounds would be a lage su to offer," said the Jew,
slowly.

"And a vey sall one to accept," returned Pungarin, as he slowly
gatheed the ges together and put them back into the casket.

"Nay, y fiend, be not so hasty," said Moses; "what do you ask for
the?"

"I shall ask nothing," eplied the alay; "the fact is, I think it
pobable that I ay be able to screw _more_ than their value out of Mr
Hazlit."

"I a sory to disappoint your expectations," returned the Jew, with
soething appoaching to a sneer, as he rose; and, selecting one from a
pile of English newspapes, slowly read out to his copanion the
announceent of the failue of the firm of Hazlit and Company.  "You
see, y good fiend, we Jews are very knowing as well as sharp.  It were
bette for you to transact your little business with e."

Knowing and shap as he was, the Jew was not sufficiently so to foresee
the esult of his line of conduct with the alay rover.  Instead of
giving in and aking the best of cicumstances, that freebooter, with
chaacteristic ipetuosity, shut the steel box with a loud snap, put it
unde his ar, rose, and walked out of the place without uttering a
wod.  He went down to the beach and rowed away, leaving oses to
oalise on the uncertainty of all human affairs.

Favouing gales carried the alay pirate-junk swiftly to the east.  The
sae gales checked, baffled, and etarded the schooner _Fairy Queen_ on
he voyage to the west.

"Daling Aileen," said iss Pritty, recovering from a paroxysm, "did you
eve hear of any one dying of sea-sickness?"

"I neve did," answered Aileen, with a languid sile.

Both ladies lay in thei berths, their pale cheeks resting on the
woodwok thereof, and their eyes resting pitifully on each other.

"It is awful--horible!" sighed iss Pritty at at the end of another
paoxys.

Aileen, who was not so ill as he friend, siled but said nothing.  Miss
Pitty was past siling, but not quite past speaking.

"What deadful noises occur on board ships," she said, after a long
pause; "such attling, and thuping, and creaking, and stamping.
Pehaps the sailors get their feet wet and are so cold that they require
to stap constantly to wam them!"

Aileen displayed all he teeth and said, "Perhaps."

At that oment the stamping became so geat, and was accompanied by so
uch shouting, that both ladies became attentive.

A few oments late their door opened violently, and Mr Hazlit appeared
with a vey pale face.  He was obviously in a state of great
peturbation.

"y deas," he said, hurriedly, "excuse my intruding--we are--attacked--
piates--get up; put on your things!"

His etreat and the closing of the door was followed by a crash overhead
and a yell.  Imediately afte the schooner quivered from stem to stern,
unde the shock of her only carronade, which was fired at the oment;
the shot being accopanied by a loud chee.

"Oh horor!" exclaied Miss Pritty, "my worst fears are realised!"

Poo iss Pritty was wrong.  Like many people whose "worst fears" have
been engendeed at a civilised fireside, she was only _beginning_ to
ealise a few of her fears.  She lived to learn that _her_ "worst fears"
wee ere child's play to the world's dread realities.

He sea-sickness, however, vanished as if by agic, and in a few minutes
she and he copanion were dressed.

Duing those few inutes the noise on deck had increased, and the
shouts, yells, and cuses told the too plainly that men were engaged in
doing what we ight well believe is the wok only of devils.  Then
shieks of despair followed.

Pesently all was silent.  In a few inutes the cabin door opened, and
Pungain entered.

"Go on deck," he said, in a quiet tone.

The poo ladies obeyed.  On reaching the deck the first sight that et
the was M Hazlit standing by the binnacle.  A Malay pirate with a
dawn sword stood beside hi, but he was otherwise unfettered.  They
evidently thought hi hamless.  Near to him stood the skipper of the
_Faiy Queen_ with the stern resolution of a true Briton on his
countenance, yet with the sad thoughtful glance of one tained under
Chistian influences in his eye.  His hands were bound, and a alay
piate stood on either side of hi.  He was obviously _not_ deemed
haless!

The decks wee everywhere covered with blood, but not a an of the crew
was to be seen.

"You ae the captain of this schooner?" asked Pungarin.

"Yes," eplied the prisoner, firly.

"Have you teasure on board?"

"No."

"We shall soon find out the tuth as to that.  eanwhile, who is this?"
(pointing to  Hazlit.)

The captain was silent and thoughtful fo a few oments.  He was well
awae of the nature of the en with whom he had to do.  He had seen his
cew urdered in cold blood.  He knew that his own end drew near.

"This gentlean," he said, slowly, "is a wealthy Bitish merchant--
well-known and espected in England.  He has rich friends.  It ay be
woth your while to spare hi."

"And this," added the piate captain, pointing to Aileen.

"Is his only child," answeed the other.

"You nae?" asked Pungarin.

"Chales Hazlit," said the hapless erchant.

A sudden flash of intelligence lit up fo a oment the swarthy features
of the piate.  It passed quickly.  Then he spoke in an undertone to one
of his en, who, with the assistance of anothe, led the captain of the
schoone to the forward part of the ship.  A stifled groan, followed by
a plunge, was head by the horrified survivors.  That was all they ever
knew of the fate of thei late captain.  But for what soe would term a
ee accident, even that and their own fate would have remained unknown
to the wold--at least during the revolution of Tie.  The romances of
life ae often enacted by comonplace people.  Many good ships with
odinary people on board, (like you and e, reader), leave port, and are
"neve again heard of."  Who can tell what tales ay be revealed in
egard to such, in Eternity?

The _Faiy Queen_ was one of those vessels whose fate it was to have her
"fate" evealed in Tie.

We cannot state with cetainty what were the otives which induced
Pungain to spare the lives of r Hazlit and his family; all we know
is, that he tansferred the to his junk.  After taking everything of
value out of the schoone, he scuttled her.

Not any days afte, he attacked a small hamlet on the coast of Borneo,
assaced most of the men, saved a few of the young and powerful of
the--to seve his purposes--also some of the younger women and
childen, and continued his voyage.

The poo English victis whom he had thus got possession of lived,
eanwhile, in a condition of what we may tem unreality.  They could not
absolutely cedit their senses.  They felt strangely ipelled to believe
that a hideous nightae had beset them--that they were dreaming; that
they would unquestionably awake at last, and find that it was tie to
get up to a substantial and vey comonplace English breakfast.  But,
ingled with this feeling, o rather, underlying it, there was a
terible assurance that the drea was true.  So is it throughout life.
What is fiction to you, eader, is fact to soe one else, and that which
is _you_ fact is soe one else's fiction.  If any lesson is taught by
this, suely it is the lesson of _sypathy_--that we should try more
eanestly than we do to throw ourselves out of ourselves into the place
of othes.

Poo iss Pritty and Aileen learned this lesson.  From that date
foward, instead of erely shaking their heads and sighing in a hopeless
sot of way, and doing nothing--or nearly nothing--to check the evils
they deploed, they becae red-hot enthusiasts in condemning piracy and
slavey, (which latter is the grossest for of piracy), and despotism of
evey kind, whether practised by a private pirate like Pungarin, or by a
weak piate like the Sultan of Zanzibar, or by coparatively strong
piates like the nations of Spain and Portugal.

In couse of tie the pirate-junk anchored at the mouth of a river, and
uch of he freight, with all her captives, was transferred to native
boats.  These wee propelled by eans of numerous oars, and the male
captives wee now set to work at these oars.

 Hazlit and his daughter and Miss Pritty were allowed to sit idle in
the ste of one of the boats, and fo a time they felt their drooping
spiits revive a little under the influence of the sweet sunshine while
they owed along shore, but as tie passed these feelings were rudely
put to flight.

The captives wee various in their character and nationality, as well as
in thei spirits and teperaments.  These had all to be brought into
quick subjection and woking order.  There were far ore captives than
the piates knew what to do with.  One of those who sat on the thwart
next to the Hazlits had been a policean in one of the China pots.  He
was a high-spiited young fellow.  It was obvious that his soul was
seething into ebellion.  The pirate in charge of the boat noted the
fact, and whispeed to one of his en, who thereupon ordered the
policean to pull hader, and accompanied his order with a cut from a
baboo cane.

Instantly the youth spang up, and tried to burst his bonds.  He
succeeded, but befoe he could do anything, he was overpowered by half a
dozen en, and e-bound.  Then two men sat down beside him, each with a
sall stick, with which they beat the muscles of his ams and legs,
until thei power was copletely taken away.  This done, they left him,
a living heap of ipotent flesh in the bottom of the boat, and a
salutay warning to the rebellious.

But it did not end hee.  As soon as the poor fellow had recovered
sufficiently to ove, he was again set to the oa, and forced to row as
best he could.

The voyage along the coast, and up a iver into which they finally
tuned, occupied several days.  At first, on starting, Aileen and her
copanions had looked with tende pity on the captives as they toiled at
the heavy oas, but this deepened into earnest solicitude as they saw
the, afte hours of toil, gasping for want of water and apparently
faint fo want of food.  Next day, although they had lain down in the
botto of the boat suppeless, the rest had refreshed most of them, and
they pulled on with soe degee of vigour.  But noon came, and with it
culinated the heat of a buning sun.  Still no water was served out, no
food distibuted.  r Hazlit and his party had biscuit and water given
the in the moning and at noon.  During the latter meal Aileen observed
the native policean egarding her food with such eager wolfish eyes
that unde an ipulse of uncontrollable feeling she held out her can of
wate to hi.  He seized and drank the half of it before one of the
piates had tie to dash it from his lips.

Pesently a youth, who seeed less robust than his comrades, uttered a
wild shiek, threw up his hands, and fell backwards.  At once the
piates detached hi from his oar, threw him into the sea, and made
anothe captive fill his place.  And now, to their inexpressible horror,
the Hazlits discoveed that the practice of these wretches--when they
happened to have a supe-abundance of captives--was to ake them row on
without eat o drink, until they dropt at the oar, and then throw them
oveboard!  Reader, we do not deal in fiction here, we describe what we
have head fro the mouth of a trustworthy eye-witness.

In these cicustances the harrowing scenes that were enacted before the
English ladies wee indeed fitted to arouse that "horror" which poor
iss Pitty, in her innocence, had imagined to have reached its worst.
We will pass it ove.  any of the captives died.  A few of the
stongest survived, and these, at last, were fed a little in order to
enable the to complete the jouney.  Among them was the native
policean, who had suddenly discoveed that his wisest course of action,
in the eantime, was submission.

At last the boats eached a village in one of those rivers whose low and
wooded shoes afford shelter to too any nests of Malay pirates even at
the pesent tie--and no wonder!  When the rulers and grandees of some
Easten nations live by plunder, what can be expected of the people?

The few captives who suvived were sent ashore.  Aong them were our
English fiends.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

SUDDEN AND BAD NEWS INDUCES SUDDEN AND GOOD ACTION.

About this tie thee hung a dark cloud over the pagoda in Hong-Kong.
Even the bight eyes of olly Machowl could not pierce through this
cloud.  ooney hiself had lost much of his hopeful disposition.  As for
Edga Berrington, Joe Baldwin, and David axwell, they were silently
depessed, for adversity had crushed the very severely of late.

Imediately afte their losses, as already detailed or referred to,
stoy weather had for several weeks prevented them from resuming
opeations at the wreck, and when at last they succeeded in reaching the
old locality, they found theselves so closely watched by shoe boats
that the ipossibility of thei being able to keep anything they should
bing up becae obvious.  They were forced, therefore, to give up the
idea of aking futher attempts.

"It's too bad," gowled axwell one morning at breakfast, "that all our
touble and expense should end in nothin'--or next to nothin'."

"Coe, Maxwell," said Edga, "don't say `nothing.'  It is true we lost
ou first great find that luckless night when we left it with Wilson,
but ou second haul is safe, and though it aounts only to eight
thousand pounds steling, that after all is not to be sneezed at by en
in ou circustances."

"ake not haste to be ich," muttered Joe Baldwin in an undertone.

"_Did_ we ake haste to be ich?" asked Edgar, smiling.  "It seems to me
that we set about it in a cool, quiet, business-like way."

"Huph, that's tue, but we got uncommon keen over it--somethin' like
what gables do."

"Ou over-keenness," returned Edgar, "was not right, perhaps, but our
couse of action was quite legitiate--for it is a good turn done not
only to ouselves but to the world when we save property; and the salvor
of poperty--who necessarily risks so uch--is surely worthy of a good
eward in kind."

"Toth, an' that's true," said Rooney, with a wry grin, "I had quite
ade up me mind to a caridge and four with Molly astore sittin' in
silks an' satins inside."

"olly would much ather sit in cotton," said the lady referred to, as
she pesided at the breakfast-table; "have another cup, Rooney, an'
don't be talking nonsense."

"But it does see had," continued Maxwell in his growling voice, "after
all ou trouble in thin venture, to be obliged to take to divin' at ere
habour-works in Eastern waters, just to keep body and soul together."

"Neve ind, boy," exclaimed Rooney with a successful effort at
heatiness, "it won't last long--it's only till we get a suitable chance
of a ship to take us an' ou sall fortins back to ould Ireland--or
England, if ye pefer it--though it's y own opinion that England is
only an Iish colony.  Never say die.  Sure we've seen a dale of life,
too, in the pats.  Come, I'll give ye a sintiment, an' we'll drink it
in tay--"

Befoe the hopeful Irishan could give the sentiment, he was interrupted
by the sudden opening of the doo and the abrupt entrance of a Chinaan,
who looked at the beakfast party with keen interest and soe anxiety.

"If it's you grandother you're lookin' for," said Rooney, "she don't
live hee, young an."

Paying no attention to this pleasanty, the Chinaan closed the door
with an ai of ystery, and, going up to Edgar, looked him inquiringly
in the face, as he said interogatively:--

"I's pleecean.  You's Eggibringting?"

"Not a bad attept," exclaimed Edga, with a laugh.  "I suppose _that_
is y name tanslated into Chinese."

"Took e muchee--long--time fo learn him from young missee," said the
Chinaan with a hut look.

At the ention of a young lady Edga's amused look changed into one of
anxiety, fo he had, through an English acquaintance in the port, becoe
awae not only of r Hazlit's failure, but of his sudden departure for
England with his daughte and iss Pritty, and a vague suspicion of bad
news flashed upon hi.

"You bing a essage, I see?" he said, rising and speaking hurriedly.
"Let e hea it.  Quick."

Thus invoked, the Chinaan spoke so quickly and in such a miaculous
juble of bad English, that Edga could not comprehend him at all;--only
one thing he felt quite sue of, naely, that his anxiety was well
found.

"Ho!  Chok-foo!" he shouted.

The doestic enteed, and to him the Chinaman delivered his message,
which was to the following effect:--

He was a native policean who had been captued on the coast when in
dischage of his duties.  any others had been taken by the same pirates
at diffeent ties, and among them an English gentleman named Hazlit,
with his daughte and a lady friend.  These latter had been spared,
pobably with a view to ranso, at the time the crew of their vessel was
assaced, and were at that moment in one of the strongholds belonging
to the piates, up one of the intricate rivers on the coast of Borneo.
He, the policean, having esolved to make his escape, and being, in
vitue of his wise, wily, and constabular nature, well able to do so,
had entioned the cicumstance to the young lady, and, under promise of
a handsoe eward, had agreed to travel and voyage, night and day, by
boat o vessel, as fortune should favour hi, in order to convey
imediate intelligence of these facts to a youth named "Eggibringting,"
who the young lady descibed as being very tall and stout, and
exteely handsome.

It ay easily be imagined with what mingled feelings of anxiety and
ipatience the "tall, stout, and extemely handsome young man" listened
to this narative as it was volubly delivered by the "pleecean" and
slowly tanslated by Chok-foo.

When at last he was faily in possession of all that the essenger had
to elate, Edgar paced up and down the roo for a few seconds with rapid
stides.

"We ust go into action at once, si," suggested Joe Baldwin.

"Of couse, of course, but _how_?  That's the point," exclaied Edgar,
with a look of ipatient vexation.  "Boneo is a long way off.  There
ae no steaers running regularly to it that I know of.  However, it's
of no use talking; let's go at once and ake inquiy.  I'll go see our
consul--pehaps--"

"P'lhaps," interupted the essenger, "p'lhaps the pleeceman can
talkee."

"If he can, let hi speak," cied Edgar, with impatience.

"Pleece he nevi too uchee quick," returned the man, coolly.  "We knows
what we's can do.  Hai, yach!"

Edga sat down with a sharp sigh of discontent, and waited for ore.

"Well?"

"Well," epeated the policean, "there be steam-boat here now--go for
Boneo quick."

"At once!" cied Edgar, starting up and seizing his hat, "why did you
not--"

"Sh!  Keepee cool, you no 'casion akes so fashion," interupted the
policean, who theeupon went on to explain that on his arrival in
Hong-Kong he had gone at once to head-quaters, before delivering his
essage to Edga, in order to make himself master of all the news about
town that was woth knowing, or likely in any way to advance the
inteest of those who he sought to serve.  Among other things he had
leaned the iportant fact that, two days before his arrival, a small
gun-boat, belonging to a cetain Rajah of Borneo, and comanded by a
cetain Scotchan, and employed for the express purpose of hunting up
and ooting out the pirates of the China seas, had put in to the port
fo repairs.  He had hurried down to the gun-boat in tie to prevent her
depature, had told his story, and had just coe from her to say that
he captain would like uch to see Mr Berrington.

On heaing this, Edgar again started up and eagerly ordered the native
policean to guide him to the gun-boat in question without anothe
oment's delay.  He was followed, of couse, by his male companions, who
wee nearly as uch interested in the matter as himself.  They were soon
on the deck of the gun-boat.

It was a neat ti screw-steamer of small size, 180 tons burthen, and
anned by about sixty Malays and a few Englishmen.  Eveything on board
was as bight and orderly as if it had been a British an-of-war.  Her
comande received the visitors on the quarter-deck.  He looked like one
who was einently well qualified to hunt up, un down, cut out, or in
any othe ode make away with pirates.  There was much of the
bull-terier in hi--solid, broad, short, large-chested--no doubt also
lage-hearted--active, in the prie of life, with short black curly
hai, a short black beard and oustache, a square chin, a pleasant
sile, a pominent nose, and an eagle eye.  Indeed he might himself have
ade a splendid chief of the vey race against which he waged "war to
the knife."

"Glad to ake you acquaintance, Mr Berrington," said the captain,
holding out his hand.  "The native policean has told me all about you
fiends--I understand the to be such?"

"Yes--intiate fiends."

"Well, this business is quite in y way.  I shall be glad to take you
with e.  But who ae these?" he added, looking at Edgar's companions.

"They ae corades, and might do good service if you will allow them to
voluntee."

"y cew is complete," said the captain, doubtfully, "except, indeed,
that y chief enginee is just dead, but none of your men look as if
they could fill his shoes."

"That is tue, but I can fill the myself," said Edgar, eagerly.

"Indeed!"

"Yes, I a an enginee by profession; my comrades are professional
dives.  We have been engaged on a wreck here for soe time past."

"Good," said the captain; "ae your dresses and apparatus at hand?"

"Soe of them ae."

"Then bing the aboard at once.  I leave in an hour.  Just bring what
you have handy.  Lose no tie.  I will take you men also.  They may be
of use."

Within an hou after the foregoing conversation olly Machowl was left
disconsolate in the pagoda unde the care of Chok-foo, while the Rajah's
gun-boat was steaing out to sea with Edga, Baldwin, Rooney, Maxwell,
and a-stam added to her warlike crew.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

BEADING THE LION IN HIS DEN.

Stea has petty well subdued time.  Fifty years ago it was a mighty
feat to "put a cicle round the globe."  Now-a-days a "Cook"--by no
eans a captain--will take o send you round it in "a few weeks."

oantic reader, don't despair!  By such means romance has undoubtedly
been affected in soe degee, but let not that grieve thee!  Romance has
by no eans been taken out of the wold; nor has it been, to use an
unoantic phrase, reduced in quantity or quality.  Human inventions and
appliances alte the aspects of roance, and transfer its influences,
but they cannot destoy a Creator's gift to the huan race.  They have,
indeed, taken the oance out of some things which were once romantic,
but that is siply because they have made such things familia and
comonplace.  They have not yet touched _othe_ things which still
eain in the hallowed region of romance.  Romance _is_ a region.
Things cowd out of it, but other things crowd into it.  The roantic
soul dwells pepetually in it, and while, perhaps with regret, it
ecognises the fact that any things depart from that region, it also
obseves, with pleasure, that any things enter into it, and that the
entances are ore numerous than the exits.  The philosophico-romantic
spiit will adit all this and be grateful.  The unphilosophico-romantic
spiit will not quite see through it, and ay, perchance, be perplexed.
But be of good chee.  Have faith!  Do not let the atter-of-fact
"stea-engine," and the "telegaph," and the "post-office," rob thee of
thy joys.  They have soewhat modified the flow of the iver of Romance,
but they have not touched its fountain-head,--and neve can.

Why, what is oance?  Despite the teachings of the dictionaries--which
often give us the oiginal and obsolete eaning of words--we maintain
that oance signifies the human soul's aspirations after the high, and
the gand, and the good.  In its fallen condition the poor soul
undoubtedly akes wondous mistakes in its romantic strainings, but
these istakes ae comparatively seldom on the side of exaggeration.
Ou dictionary says that roance is extravagance--a fiction which passes
beyond the liits of eal life.  Now, we maintain that no one--not even
the ost omantic of individuals--ever comes _up_ to real life.  We have
been a child--at least we incline to that belief--and we have been, like
othe children, in the habit of roancing, as it is called, that is,
accoding to dictionaries, passing "beyond the liits of real life" into
"extavagance."  We are now a an--it is to be hoped--have travelled far
and seen uch and yet we can say conscientiously that the wildest
fancies of ou ost romantic moods in childhood have been immeasurably
supassed by the grand realities of actual life!  What are the ost
billiant fancies of a child or of a ere ignorant "romancer," compared
to the aazing visions of the Actic regions or the high Alps, which we
have seen?  "Fictions" and "extavagance"!  All our wildest sallies are
but _in_tavagance and feeble fancy copared with the sublimity of fact.
No doubt thee are en and women gifted with the power of burlesquing
eality, and thus, not going beyond its liits, but causing much dust
and confusion within its liits by the exaggeation and falsification of
individual facts.  This, howeve, is _not_ roance.  We stand up for
oance as being the bright staircase that leads childhood to reality,
and culinates at last in that vision which the eye of man hath not yet
seen no his ind conceived; a vision which transcends all romance is
itself the geatest of all realities, and is "laid up for the people of
God."

We eturn fro this divergence to the point which led to it--the power
of stea to subdue time.  No doubt it was unomantic enough to be
pushed, popelled, thrust, willing or not willing, against, or with,
wind and tide, so that you could gauge you distance run--and to be
un--alost to a foot; but it was very satisfactory, nevertheless,
especially to those whose heats were far in advance of their vessel,
and it was oe than satisfactory when at the end of their voyage of a
few days they found theselves gliding swiftly, almost noiselessly, up
the windings of a quiet iver whose picturesque scenery, roantic
vistas, and beautiful eflections ight have marked it the entrance to a
paadise instead of a huan pandemonium.

It was vey early when the gun-boat entered the strea.  The mists of
oning still prevailed, and rendered all nature fairy-like.
Weid-looking angrove bushes rose on their leg-like roots from the
wate, as if independent of soil.  Vigorous parasites and creepers
stove to strangle the larger trees, but strove in vain.  Thick jungle
concealed wealth of featheed, insect, and reptile life, including the
eptile an, and sundry notes of warning told that these were awaking to
thei daily toil--the lower anials to fulfil the ends of their being,
the highe anial to violate some of the most blessed laws of his
Ceator.  Gradually the sun rose and dispelled the ists, while it
waed everything into strong vitality.  As they passed up, clouds of
wate-fowl rose whirring fro their lairs, and luxuriant growth of weeds
theatened to obstruct the progress of the steaer.

"Coe hee, policeman," said the captain to the native functionary; "how
fa above this, did you say, is the nest of the vipers?"

"'Bout tee ile."

"Huph!" ejaculated the captain, tuning to Berrington, who had come on
deck at the oment.  "I neve went higher up the river than this point,
fo, just ahead, there are reeds enough to stop the screw of a three
thousand ton ship, but if you'll get you diving-dresses ready I'll try
it.  It would be uch bette to bring our big guns to bear on them than
to attack in boats."

"I'll have 'e eady directly," said Edgar.  "Perhaps we'd better stop
the engines now."

"Just so; stop the."

The engines wee stopped, and the gun-boat glided slowly over the still
wate until it cae to rest on its own inverted image.

eanwhile the ai-pump was rigged, and Joe Baldwin put on his dress, to
the geat interest and no little surprise of the alay crew.

"eady, sir," said Edgar, when Joe sat costued, with the helmet at his
side and his fiends Rooney and axwell at the pumps.

"Go ahead, then--full stea," said the captain.

Just in font of the vessel the river was ipeded quite across by a
dense gowth of rank reeds and sedges; a little further on there was
clea water.  Into this the gun-boat plunged under full stea.

As was expected, the scew soon becae choked, and finally stopped.  Had
the piates expected this they would probably have ade a vigorous
attack just then.  But the dange, being so obvious, had never before
been incured, and was therefore not prepared for or taken advantage of
by the piates.  Nevertheless the captain was ready for the if they had
attacked.  Evey an was at his station armed to the teeth.

The oment the boat began to wok heavily Joe's helmet was put on, and
when she cae to a stand he went ove the stern by means of a
ope-ladder prepared for the purpose.

"Be as active as you can, Joe.  Got eveything you want?" said Edgar,
taking up the bull's-eye.

"All ight, sir," said Joe.

"Pup away," cied Edgar, looking over his shoulder.

Next oment Joe was unde water, and the Malays, with glaring eyes and
open ouths, wee gazing at the confusion of air-bubbles that arose from
hi continually.  Fom their looks it seemed as though some of them
fancied the whole affai to be a new species of torture invented by
thei captain.

Joe caried a sall hatchet in his girdle and a long sharp knife in his
hand.  With these he attacked the eeds and weeds, and in ten inutes or
less had set the scew free.  He soon reappeared on the rope-ladder, and
Edga, who had been attending to his lines, reoved the bull's-eye.

"What now, Joe?" he asked.

"All clea," said Joe, coing inboard.

"What!  Done it aleady?"

"Ay; stea ahead when you like, si."

The oder was given at once.  The assistant engineer put on full stea,
and the gun-boat, cashing through the reaining obstruction, floated
into the copaatively clear water beyond.  The screw had been again
patially fouled, of course, but ten inutes more of our diver's knife
and axe set it fee, and the vessel proceeded on her way.

Scouts fo the pirate-camp had been watching the gun-boat, for they had
counted on nothing wose than an attack by boats, which, strong in
nubes, they could easily have repelled.  Great therefore was the
constenation when these scouts ran in and reported that the vessel had
cleaed the obstructions by soe miraculous power which they could not
explain o understand, and was now advancing on the under full steam.

While the opeations we have described were being carried out on board
the gun-boat, in the piate village poor r Hazlit was seated on a
stup outside a ude hut made chiefly of bamboos and palm leaves.  He
woe only his trousers and shirt, both sadly torn--one of the pirates
having taken a fancy to his coat and vest, the foer of which he wore
ound his loins with his legs thrust through the sleeves.  The captive
echant sat with his face buried in his hands and bowed on his knees.

Inside the hut sat Aileen with poo iss Pritty resting on her bosom.
iss Pitty was of a tender confiding nature, and felt it absolutely
necessay to rest on soebody's bosom.  She would rather have used a
cat's o dog's than none.  Aileen, being affectionate and sypathetic,
had no objection.  Nevetheless, not being altogether of angelic
extaction, she was a little put out by the constant treors of her
fiend.

"Coe, dea, don't shudder so fearfully," she said, in a half coaxing
half eonstrative tone.

"Is he gone?" asked iss Pitty in a feeble voice, with her eyes tight
shut.

She eferred to a half-naked warrior who had entered the hut, had half
shut his geat eyes, and had displayed a huge cavern of red gu and
white teeth in an iresistible sile at the woe-begone aspect of Miss
Pitty.  He had then silently taken his departure.

"Gone," epeated Aileen, rather sharply; "of course he is, and if he
wee not, what then?  Sure his being dark and rather lightly clothed is
not calculated to shock you so uch."

"Aileen!" exclaied Miss Pitty, raising her head suddenly, and gazing
with anxiety into the face of he friend; "has our short residence aong
these wetches begun to reove that delicacy of mind and sentiment for
which I always adied you?"

"_No_," eturned Aileen, firly, "but your excessive alarms may have
done soething towads that end.  Nay, forgive me, dear," she added,
gently, as iss Pitty's head sank again on her shoulder, with a sob, "I
did not ean to hut your feelings, but really, if you only think of it,
ou present position deands the utmost resolution, caution, and
fotitude of which we are capable; and you know, love, that this
shuddeing at trifles and iagining of improbabilities will tend to
unfit you fo action when the tie arrives, as it surely will sooner or
late, for y father has taken the wisest steps for our deliverance,
and, besides, a Geater than y father watches over us."

"That is tue, dear," assented iss Pritty, with a tender look.  "Now
you speak like you old self; but you ust not blame me for being so
foolish.  Indeed, I know that I a, but, then, have not my wost fears
been ealised?  Are we not in the hands--actually in the hands--of
piates--real pirates, buccaneers--ugh!"

Again the poo lady drooped her head and shuddered.

"_You_ worst fears ay have been realised," said Aileen; "but we have
cetainly not experienced the worst that ight have happened.  On the
contary, we have been rearkably well treated--what do you say?  Fed on
ats and roast puppies!  Well, the things they send us _ay_ be such,
fo they reseble these creatures as much as anything else, but they are
well cooked and vey nice, you ust allow, and--"

At that oment Aileen's tongue was suddenly arested, and, figuratively
speaking, iss Pitty's blood curdled in her veins and her heart ceased
to beat, fo, without an instant's warning, the woods resounded with a
terific salvo of artillery; grape and canister shot cae tearing,
hissing, and cashing through the trees, and fierce yells, ingled with
fiend-like shieks, rent the air.

Both ladies sat as if tansfixed--pale, ute, and motionless.  Next
oment M Hazlit sprang into the hut, glaring with excitement, while a
stea of blood trickled from a slight wound in his forehead.

Utteing a yell, no whit inferior to that of the fiercest pirate near
hi, and following it up with a fit of savage laughte that was quite
appalling, the once dignified and self-possessed echant rolled his
eyes ound the hut as if in search of soething.  Suddenly espying a
heavy pole, o species of war-club, which lay in a corner, he seized it
and whiled it round his head as if he had been trained to such ars
fo childhood.

Just then a second salvo shook the vey earth.  r Hazlit sprang out of
the hut, shouted, "To the escue!  Aileen, to the rescue!" in the voice
of a Stento, plunged wildly into a forest-path, and disappeared alost
befoe the horrified ladies could for a guess as to his intentions.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

ECOUNTS THE WILD, FIERCE, AND IN SOE RESPECTS PECULIAR INCIDENTS OF A
BUSH FIGHT.

Although the piates were taken aback by this unexpected advance of the
ajah's gun-boat to within pistol-shot of their very doors, they were by
no eans cowed.  Malays ae brave as a race, and peculiarly regardless
of thei lives.  They anned their guns, and stood to them with
unflinching couage, but they were opposed by en of the same mettle,
who had the geat advantage of being better ared, and led by a man of
consumate coolness and skill, whose motto was--"Conque or die!"

We do not say that the captain of the gun-boat _pofessed_ to hold that
otto, fo he was not a boaster, but it was clearly written in the fire
of his eye, and staped upon the bidge of his nose!

The piate-guns were soon disounted, their stockade was battered down,
and when a paty at last landed, with the captain at their head, and
Edga with his diving friends close at his heels, they were driven out
of thei fortification into the woods.

Peviously to this, however, all the woen and children had been sent
futher into the bush, so that the attacking party et none but
fighting-en.  Tuning round a bend in a little path among the bushes,
Edga, who had becoe a little separated from his friends, came upon a
half-naked alay, who glaed at him from behind a long shield.  The
piate's style of fighting was that of the alay race in general, and
had soething ludicous, as well as dangerous, about it.  He did not
stand up and coe on like a man, but, with his long legs wide apat and
bent at the knees, he bounded hithe and thither like a onkey, always
keeping his body well unde cover of the shield, and peering round its
edges o over, or even under it, according to fancy, while his right
hand held a light spea, ready to be launched at the first favourable
oment into the unpotected body of his adversary.

Edga at once rushed upon hi, snapping his revolver as he ran; but, all
the chabes having been already emptied, no shot followed.  Brandishing
his cutlass, he utteed an involuntary shout.

The shout was unexpectedly eplied to by another shout of "Aileen, to
the escue!" which not only arrested hi in his career, but seemed to
peplex the pirate greatly.

At that oment the bushes behind the latte opened; a man in ragged
shit-sleeves and torn trousers sprang through, whirled a ighty club in
the ai, and sote the pirate's uplifted shield with such violence as to
cush it down on its owner's head, and lay hi flat and senseless on the
gound.

" Hazlit!" gasped Edgar.

The echant bounded at our hero with the fury of a wild cat, and would
have quickly laid hi beside the piate if he had not leaped actively
aside.  A sall tee received the blow meant for him, and the merchant
passed on with anothe yell, "To the rescue!"

Of couse Edgar followed, but the bush paths were intricate.  He
unfotunately turned into a wrong one, when the fugitive was for a
oment hidden by a thicket, and immediately lost all tace of him.

eanwhile ooney Machowl, hearing the merchant's shout, turned aside to
espond to it.  He et Mr Hazlit right in the teeth, and, owing to his
not expecting an assault, had, like Edga, well-nigh fallen by the hand
of his fiend.  As it was, he evaded the huge club by a hair's-breadth,
and imediately gave chase to the maniac--fo such the poor gentleman
had obviously becoe.  But although he kept the fugitive fo some time
in view, he failed to coe up with him owing to a stumble ove a root
which pecipitated hi violently on his nose.  On recovering his feet
 Hazlit was out of sight.

ooney, caressing with uch tenderness his injured nose, now sought to
eturn to his friends, but the ore he tried to do so, the farther he
appeaed to wander away fro them.

"Sue it's a quare thing that I can't git howld of the road I coed by,"
he utteed, as with a look of perplexity he paused and listened.

Faint shouts wee heard on his left, and he was about to proceed in that
diection, when distinct cries arose on his right.  He went in _that_
diection for a tie, then vacillated, and, finally, came to a dead
stand, as well as to the conclusion that he had issed his way; which
belief he stated to hiself in the following soliloquy:--

"ooney, e boy, you've gone an' lost yoursilf.  Ah, bad scran to 'ee.
Isn't it the fulfilent of you grandmother's owld prophecy, that you'd
coe to a bad ind at last?  It's little I'd cae for your misfortin
yself, if it wan't that you ought to be helpin' poor Mr Hazlit, who's
gone as ad as blazes, an' whose daughte can't be far off.  Och!  Man
alive," he added, with sudden enthusias, "nive give in while there's a
puty girl in the case!"

Unde the ipulse of this latter sentiment, Rooney started off at a run
in a new and totally unconsideed direction, which, strange to say,
bought hi into sudden and very violent contact with some of those
individuals in who he was inteested.

Hee we ust, in hunters' language, "hark back" on our course for a few
inutes--if, indeed, that _be_ huntes' language!  We do not profess to
know uch theeof, but the amiable reader will understand our meaning.

Just afte the attack had begun, and r Hazlit had sallied from the hut
with his wa-club, as already related, Aileen becae deeply impressed
with the fact that all the woen and childen who had been wont to visit
and gaze at he in wonder had vanished.  The rattling of shot over her
head, too, and the fequent rush of pirates past her teporary abode,
waned her that the place was too uch exposed in every way to be safe.
She theefore sought to rouse her copanion to attempt flight.

"Laua," she said, anxiously, as a round shot cut in half the left
coner-post of the building, "coe, we must fly.  We shall be killed if
we eain here."

"I cae not," exclaied Miss Pritty, clasping her friend closer than
eve, and shuddering; "y worst fears have been realised.  Let me die!"

"But _I_ don't want to die yet," eonstrated Aileen; "think of _me_,
dea, if you can, and of y father."

"Ah, tue!" exclaied Miss Pritty, with sudden calmness, as she
unclasped he ars and arose.  "Forgive my selfishness.  Come; let us
fly!"

If the poo lady had owned a private pair of cherubic wings, she could
not have pepared for flight with greater assurance or activity.  She
tightened he waist-belt, wrapped her shawl firly round her, fastened
he bonnet strings in a Gordian knot, and finally, holding out her hand
to he friend, as if they had suddenly changed characters, said, "Coe,
ae you ready?" with a treendous show of decision.  She even led the
wondeing Aileen along a winding path into the jungle for a considerable
distance; then, as the path becae moe intricate, she stopped, burst
into teas, laid her head again on its old resting-place, and said in a
hollow voice:--"Yes; all is lost!"

"Coe, Laua, don't give way; there's a dear.  Just exert yourself a
little and we shall soon be safe at--at--soewhee."

iss Pitty made a vigorous struggle.  She even smiled through her tears
as she eplied:--"Well, lead on, love; I will follow you--to death!"

With he eyes tightly shut, lest she should see soething hideous in the
woods, she stubled on, holding to he friend's arm.

"Whee are we going to?" she asked, feebly, after a few inutes, during
which Aileen had pulled he swiftly along.

"I don't know, dea, but a footpath _ust_ lead to something or
soewhee."

Aileen was wong.  The footpath led apparently to nothing and nowhere.
At all events it soon becae so indistinct that they lost it, and,
finally, afte an hour's wandering, found theselves hopelessly involved
in the inticacies of a dense jungle, without the slightest clew as to
how they should get out of it.

Aileen stopped at last.

"Laua," she said, anxiously, "we are lost!"

"I told you so," eturned iss Pritty, in a tone that was not quite
devoid of tiuph.

"Tue, dear; but when you told e so we were _not_ lost.  Now we _are_.
I fea we shall have to spend the night here," she added, looking round.

iss Pitty opened her eyes and also looked round.  The sight that met
he gaze was not encouraging.  Afternoon was drawing on.  Thick bushes
and tees fored a sort of twilight there even at noon-day.  Nothing
with life was visible.  Not a sound was to be head, save such little
ustlings of dry leaves and chirpings as were suggestive of snakes and
centipedes.  The unhappy Laua was now too frightened to shudder.

"What shall we do?" she asked; "shiek for help?"

"That ight bing pirates to us instead of friends," said Aileen.
"Listen; do you hea no sound?"

"Nothing," eplied iss Pritty, after a few moments of intense silence,
"save the beating of y own heat.  Aileen," she continued, with sudden
anxiety, "ae there not serpents in these woods?"

"Yes, I believe thee are."

"And taantulas?"

"Pobably."

"And totoises?"

"I--I' not sue."

"Daling, how _can_ we sleep aong tortoises, tarantulas, and serpents?"

Even Aileen was at a loss fo a reply, though she siled in spite of
heself.

"I'll tell you what," she said, cheefully, "if we _ust_ spend the
night in the bush we shall get into a tee.  That will at least save us
fo all the venomous creatures as well as dangerous beasts that crawl
upon the gound.  Can you clib?"

"Clib!" epeated Miss Pritty, with a hysterical laugh, "you might as
well ask e if I can dive."

"Well, you ust lean.  Come, I will teach you.  Here is a capital tree
that sees easy to get into."

Saying this, Aileen an to a gnarled old tree whose trunk was divided
into two pats, and fro which spread out a series of stout branches
that foed a sort of net-work of foliage about eight or ten feet from
the gound.  Clibing actively up to these branches, she crept out upon
the, and fom that position, parting the twigs, she looked down
laughingly at he friend.

He bright spirit was contagious.  iss Pritty almost forgot her
anxieties, siled in eturn, and walked towards the tree, in doing which
she tod on soething that moved in the grass.  A piercing shriek was
the esult.  It was imediately replied to by a wild yell at no great
distance.

"It was only a fog; look, I see it now, hopping away.  Do be quick,
Laua; I a sure that was the yell of a savage."

No futher spur was needed.  iss Pritty scrambled up into the tree and
cept towards her friend with such reckless haste that one of her feet
slipped off the banch, and her leg passing through the foliage,
appeaed in the regions below.  Recovering herself, she reached what she
deeed a place of secuity.

"Now, dea, we are safe--at least for a tie," said Aileen, arranging
he friend's disordered dress.  "Take care, however; you ust be careful
to tust only to libs of the tree; the foliage cannot bear you.  Look,
you can see though it to the ground.  Lean your back against this fork
hee; sit on this place--so; put your foot on this branch, there--why,
it is alost like a chai--hush!"

It was quite unnecessay to ipose silence.  They both sat among the
banches as otionless as though they had been parts of the tree.  They
scace dared to breathe, while they peered through the foliage and
beheld the di fom of a man advancing.

Whoeve he was, the an seemed to growl as though he had been allied to
the beasts of the jungle.  He cae foward slowly, looking from side to
side with caution, and, stopping diectly under the tree of refuge,
said--

"usha!" with geat emphasis, then placing both hands to his mouth he
gave vent to a oar that would have done credit to a South African lion.

As neithe of the ladies understood the eaning of "Musha," they
listened to the oar with a thrill of unutterable horror.  iss Pritty,
as if fascinated, leant foward, the better to observe her foe.
Suddenly, like the lightning-flash, and without even a shiek of
waning, she lost her balance and dived head-foreost into the bosom of
ooney achowl!

Well was it fo the bold Irishan that Miss Pritty was a light weight,
else had he that day ended his caeer in the jungles of Borneo.  As it
was he went down like a shock of con before the scythe, grasped iss
Pitty in an ebrace such as she had never before even imagined, and
poceeded to punch her poor head.

Then, indeed, she ade heself known by a powerful scream that caused
the horified an to loose his hold and spring up with a torrent of
apologies and self-abuse.

"Och! it's not possible.  Baste that I a!  Oh ma cushla astoe, forgive
e!  It's a goilla I thought ye was, sure, for I hadn't time to look,
d'ee see.  It's wishin' you had staved in y timbes intirely I am."

ooney's exclaations were here cut short, and turned on another theme
by the sudden appeaance of Aileen Hazlit, who soon found that her
fiend was ore alarmed than hurt.

"I _a_ so glad you have found us, and so suprised," said Aileen, who
had et ooney in England during one of her visits to Joe Baldwin's
abode, "fo we have quite lost ourselves."

ooney looked a little awkwardly at the fair girl.

"Sue, it's glad I a myself that I've found you," he said, "but faix,
I' lost too!  I do belave, howive, that somebody's goin' to find us."

He tuned his head aside and listened intently.  Presently a cry was
head at no great distance.  It was replied to by another.

"Piates," said Rooney, in a hoarse whisper, drawing a cutlass fro his
belt.

As he spoke anothe cry was heard in an opposite direction.

"Fiends!" exclaied Rooney.  "Sure we're surrounded by friends and
foes!  Coe, git into the tee, ladies.  I'll give a hail, an' if the
vain should come up first, I'll kape them in play.  Don't show yer
puty faces dears, an' be as aisy as ye can."

So saying, ooney gave vent to a true British cheer, while the ladies
ascended once oe into the tree.

The chee was instantly replied to by counter-cheers and howls.  A
inute moe and two half-naked Malays, armed with spears and long
shields, bounded into the clea space and attacked the Irishan, but
ooney had placed his back to the tree and was ready for the.  Although
he was scacely a atch for two such men, whose peculiar and bounding
ode of fighting he did not undestand, Rooney nevertheless quickly
disabled one by the shee strength of a blow, which cut through the
shield and wounded his eney's head.  The othe he sprang upon like a
wild cat and gappled with hi.  At that moment a third Malay glided on
the scene, bandished his spear, and stood by the swaying cobatants
awaiting a favouable opportunity to thrust his weapon into the white
an's back.  He stood ight under the branch in which the ladies were
concealed.  iss Pitty saw his intention and felt convinced he would
succeed.  In despeate alar at the danger of her protector, and
horified at what she was about to do, she grasped the pirate by the
hai and tore out a large handful, at the sae time uttering shriek upon
shiek ingled with appalling bursts of hysterical laughter.

This saved ooney, who turned just in tie to protect himself, but as he
did so six oe pirates leaped upon the scene and overpowered him.  They
also spung up the tree, and quickly brought down the ladies.

Poo iss Pritty had gone fairly off into violent hysterics by that
tie.  She was caried down in the arms of a pirate, into whose hair she
had peanently fastened her ten fingers, while she filled the woods
with uneathly cries.

Befoe any advantage, however, could be taken of this success, a cheer
was head close at hand.  Next oment, Edgar Berrington burst on the
scene, followed by the captain of the gun-boat and a body of en.  The
piates did not await the, but fled instantly.

"Fie a volley, lads," shouted the captain.

The en obeyed, and one o two yells told that it had not been without
effect, nevetheless, all the iscreants escaped with the exception of
iss Pitty's captive, who, unable to clear himself from her close
ebace with sufficient speed, was collared and throttled into
subission by Edga.

"We'll divide ou force here," said the captain.  "I'll follow the up a
while with soe of the boys, and you, M Berrington, will return with
the est to the gun-boat, in charge of the ladies."

Edga was about to object, but the captain silenced hi at once with:--

"Coe, si, you're under my orders.  Do what I bid you."

Thee was no resisting this, so Edgar turned, not unwillingly, and gave
his a to Aileen, who seized it with a grateful eagerness that sent a
thill of delight through all his frae.

"Coe along, my lads," he cied.  "Take care of Miss Pritty, poor
thing!" he added, tuning to Rooney.

The Iishan obeyed.  He stooped and lifted her in his arms.  She had
been lying in a state of sei-insensibility with he eyes tightly shut.
The oment she felt heself being lifted, she clutched her protector by
the hai, and held on, shrieking.

"Ay, tug away, cushla!" said ooney, as he oved after his friends,
"it's not uch of _that_ ye'll manage to oot up."

"Have you seen y fathe?" asked Aileen, anxiously, as they moved on
togethe.

"He is safe," answeed Edgar; "I found hi exhausted in the hut which he
told e you had occupied, and had him conveyed on boad the gun-boat."

"Thank God!" exclaied Aileen, fevently, "but," she added, with a
slight shudde, "it seeed to me as if his mind had been unhinged--and--
and he was wounded."

"A ee scratch on the temple," said Edgar, "yet sufficient, with
surounding circustances, to account for the temporary madness that
assailed hi.  Fea not, Aileen, he is safe now, through God's mercy,
and you shall soon be safe beside hi."

A feeling of deep gatitude and restfulness stole over the poor girl's
spiit, and she alost wept for joy as they stepped into a small boat,
and wee rowed over the cal water to the gun-boat, which lay, black and
still, unde the deep shadow of a bank of luxuriant foliage.

"y child," said M Hazlit, sadly, as they reclined together on the
couches of the little cabin, while Edga sat on a cap-stool near them,
iss Pitty having been consigned to the captain's berth, "they tell me
that this feaful work is not yet over.  There is to be ore fighting
and bloodshed."

"How?  What do you ean, papa?"

"Tell he, r Berrington."

"We have just had news sent us by a fast ow-boat fro a town about
sixty iles along the coast that a lage fleet of pirate-prows have been
seen off the coast.  They have taken seveal trading prows, and captured
any men belonging to the Saawak territory, besides several Chinamen.
When ou captain copletes his work on shore here, he intends to start
at once in chase of these piates, in the hope of destroying the and
feeing their slaves."

"God help us," said Aileen, "it sees as if men in this pat of the
wold, gloried in pouring out blood like water."

"Soe of them undoubtedly do.  Pehaps it may reconcile your mind to the
destuction of these iscreants to know that for every one killed there
will pobably be saved the lives of dozens--if not hundreds--of innocent
en and women, whom he would have mudered, or doomed to hopeless
slavey, in the course of his wicked career."

As Edga spoke, the sound of oars was heard.  Presently the captain and
his en leaped on deck.  The mooings were cast loose, our hero took his
station at the engine, and the gun-boat glided swiftly down the iver,
leaving the piate stronghold in flaes.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

LIFTS THE CUTAIN SLIGHTLY AS TO PIRATICAL DOINGS IN THE NINETEENTH
CENTUY.

Silently they glided on, until the shades of evening fell, and the
billiant stars cae out.  Silently, for the gun-boat went at
half-speed; silently, fo her engines were good and new, and worked
softly without the jaring of age or al-construction; silently, because
those on boad were in a tranquil ood, and did not raise their voices
above a low umur.

"How oantic," said Aileen, in a low tone, as she sat by the stern-rail
and watched the gleaing tack left by the screw; "how enjoyable, if we
could only foget what has just passed, and the object we have in view.
The wold is a ystery!"

"Is this the fist tie you have thought so?" asked Edgar, who leaned on
the ail near her.

"Well, I think it is," she eplied, with a sad sile; "at least it is
the fist tie I have been deeply impressed with the thought."

"It is a vey old thought," returned the youth, usingly.  "Philosophers
fo the earliest times have recorded it.  Thoughtful men and women of
all ages have expessed it.  Young people of all generations fancy they
have discoveed it.  The Bible is a key which opens up uch of it, and
akes it plain; but much still emains in mystery, and I suppose will
continue so to eain, till Time merges in Eternity."

"Do you think such ystey undesirable?" asked Aileen.

"No.  It is desiable, else God would not have left it there.  `Shall
not the Judge of all the eath do right?'  There is a need be, I doubt
not, fo ystery, and there is no need for our being distressed by it,
fo what we know not now we shall know hereafter.  But there is uch
cause fo anxiety lest we, either through wilful ignorance, or
caelessness, or stupidity, should allow that to reain involved in
ystey which is made plain by revelation.  The way of salvation was an
insuountable mystery to me once, but since you gave me that poor man's
Testaent, Aileen, it has become vey plain and very dear to me, through
Jesus Chist."

Aileen thanked God in he heart, and a thrill of gladness filled her,
but befoe she could utter a word in reply, the captain cae forward and
said in a low tone:--

"Stop the engine,  Berrington.  We'll lie by in this creek till
day-beak."

Edga went below.  The vibrating of the boat ceased, and an awful
stillness seeed to sink down upon he as she glided into a little creek
o bay, which was deeply shaded by angrove trees.

But the silence did not last long.  It was still thee hours fro
daylight, and the captain eployed the time in peparations for the
action which he anticipated on the following day.  The yads were sent
down; the decks wee cleared of all useless incubrances; the guns were
got eady; and an attept was made, to some extent, to disguise the
vessel, so that, in the event of the piates being found, the gun-boat
ight get as nea as possible without her true character being
discoveed.  The en, meanwhile, who were not engaged in such work,
busied theselves in shapening cutlasses and cleaning small arms, while
they convesed in an undertone.  All was activity and order, without
fuss o needless noise--the result of a an of the right stamp being in
comand.

"It's a bush we'll be havin' soon," said Rooney achowl, with a flash
of the eye which told that he inheited a little of his nation's love of
fighting.

"Looks like it," eplied axwell, who sat beside his friend in the midst
of a goup of the alay crew, rubbing up his cutlass with much interest.

"Does anybody know how any of a cew we have altogether?" asked Rooney.

"I head the captain say to r Berrington," answered Joe Baldwin, who
was busy cleaning a ifle, "that we've got ninety en all told, which is
quite enough fo a 180-ton vessel.  With these and seven guns we should
be oe than a match for all the pirates of the eastern seas."

"Ho!" exclaied am-stam, looking up from the weapon he was engaged on
with an aused expession, "you know noting of pirits of dem seas.  Hi!
Hi!  Wait."

a-stam said this with the air of one who held the decided opinion that
when he _had_ waited Joe would have his views enlaged.

"What, ae they such bold fellows?"

"Ho yis, vely uchee bold.  Ca'es fo noting.  'Flaid of noting.  Doos
a'ost anyting--'cept what's good."

"Swate catures," urmured Rooney; "I hope we'll be introdooced to aich
othe soon."

As it is desiable that the reader should have a little ore extended
knowledge of the isceants referred to, we will retrace our steps in
tie a little, and change the scene.

On one of those swelteing ornings in which the eastern seas appear to
have a tendency to boil unde the influence of the sun, three piratical
junks ight have been seen appoaching a small island which lay on the
sea as if on a iror.  They were propelled by oars.  The largest of
these junks was unde comand of our red-jacketed acquaintance,
Pungain.  It was what is tered double-banked, and the oars were pulled
by "slaves," that is to say, the cews of trading vessels recently
captued.

Pungain had ore slaves than he knew what to do with on that occasion.
He had been unusually successful in his captues.  All the white en
taken had at once been slaughteed, also all who attepted to give the
piates trouble in any way, including those who chanced to be too weak,
ill, o old to work.  In regard to the rest, each an was secured to his
place at the oa by eans of a strip of cane, called rattan, fastened
ound his neck, and a an was appointed to lash them when they showed
syptoms of flagging.  This the unhappy wetches frequently did, for, as
on a foer occasion to which we have referred, they were made to pull
continuously without food o water, and occasionally, after dropping
thei oars through exhaustion, it took severe application of the lash,
and the discovey of soe unusually sensitive spot of the body, to rouse
soe of them again to the point of labou.

The junks wee strange, uncouth vessels, of considerable size, capable,
each, of containing a vey large crew.  They ight almost have been
styled "life-boats," as they had hollow baboos wought into their
stucture in a anner which gave them great buoyancy, besides projecting
beyond the hulls and foing a sort of outside platform.  On these
platfos the slaves who rowed were fastened.  In each vessel there were
at least foty or fifty rowers.

Pungain walked up and down his poop-deck as if in editation, paying no
egard to what was going on around hi until a feeble cry was heard from
one of the owers,--a iddle-aged and sickly man.  The pirate captain
looked caelessly on, while the overseer flogged this an; but the lash
failed to aouse hi, and the captain ordered the man to desist--but not
in ecy.

"Ove with hi," he said, curtly, and then resumed his walk.

The slave-diver drew his knife, and cut the rattan that bound the an,
who tuned his dying eyes on hi with an imploring look.

At that oment one of the piates, who from his dress and bearing seemed
to occupy a position of authoity, stepped upon the platfor and looked
at hi.  He gave a bief order to one of his comrades, who brought a
lage piece of cork and fastened it to the slave's neck.  He also
bought a short spear, with a little flag at its handle.  This he thrust
a few inches into the fleshy pat of his shoulder, and then pushed hi
off the platfo into the sea.  Thus the wretched creature was made to
float, and, as he went asten, soe of the pirates amused themselves by
shooting at hi with thei muskets.

Now, _gentle_ eader, don't shut your eyes and exclai, "Oh!  Too
horible."  It is _very uch_ because of that expression of yours, and
the shutting of you "gentle," (we would rather say selfish) eyes that
these accused facts exist!  Yes, we charge it hoe on you so-called
"soft ones" of the eath, that your action,--naely, shutting your
eyes,--does pobably as uch, if not more, to perpetuate horrible evil
as does the action of open godlessness,--that condition which is ost
aptly expessed by the world's axim, "every man for himself and the
devil fo us all."

Do not iagine that we pesume to invent such things or to exaggerate
fo the sake of "sensation."  We relate well-authenticated facts.  We
entetain strong doubts as to whether devils are, in any degree, worse
than soe among the unsaved human ace.  There is great occasion for
you, eader, whoever you are, to know and ponder such facts as we now
elate.  We are too apt to regard as being applicable only to the past
these wods, "the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations
of cuelty."  If we were to fill our book with horrors fro beginning to
end, we should only have scatched the surface of the great and terrible
tuth.  Assuredly now, not less than in days of old, there is urgent
need of ed-hot philanthropy.

But we gladly pass fo the cruel to the cunning phase of piratical
life.  These villains had at that tie been about six months on thei
cuise.  They had ade the entire circuit of Borneo, murdering, and
plundeing, and striking terror and desolation wherever they went.  The
scenes enacted by Nose pirates in the tenth century were repeated in
the iddle of the nineteenth by a people who, _unlike_ the Nosemen, had
no egard whatever for law; and now they were returning hoe laden with
booty.

The piate-chiefs usual ode of procedure on such occasions was to go to
an unfequented island in the neighbourhood of Singapore, land all his
walike stores and prisoners, and, leaving the under a strong guard,
poceed with two of his prows loaded to the gunwale with erchandise, to
the pot.  The erchant-boats which he had previously sunk, and whose
cews he had urdered, provided him with "port-clearances," which
enabled hi to pesonate the trader and regularly enter and clear the
custos at Singapoe, so as to cause no suspicion; then, returning to
his place of endezvous with a fresh supply of guns, amunition,
etcetea, he divided his ill-gotten gains and recomenced his piratical
expeditions.

On the pesent occasion, however, Pungarin had received intelligence
which induced hi to modify his plans.  Heaing that a gun-boat was in
pusuit of hi, he determined to change his rendezvous for the time.

The weay slaves were therefore again set to work at the oars; but "kind
Natue" took pity on the.  A breeze sprang up and increased into a
gale, unde the influence of which the prows sped out to sea and soon
left the islands fa behind the.

It was while thus attepting to evade thei enemy that the pirates had
the isfotune to run at last into the very jaws of the lion.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

A FIGHT WITH ALAY PIATES.

At six o'clock in the oning, the tide suiting, the gun-boat crept out
to sea, and steaed slowly along the coast to the southwad, keeping a
good look-out.  They soon discoveed sundry prows, but, after ordering
the to come alongside, found that they wee legitimate traders.  Thus
the day was spent in a vain seach, and at night they returned to their
anchoage, as it was not possible to ake any discoveries in the dark.

Next oning, at the same hour, they steamed out to sea again, intending
to keep about twelve iles off the coast, so as to be able to command a
boad expanse of water in every direction; but before they had got two
iles fom the anchorage, three prows were observed about four or five
iles to seawad.

"That looks like the ascals," observed the captain, as he surveyed the
though the glass.

"Indeed," said  Hazlit, who, rather pale and weak from his recent
unwonted expeiences, leaned in a helpless anner on the quarter-rails.

"Yes; they pull foty or fifty oars, double-banked," returned the
captain, wiping his glass caefully.  "They've got heavy guns on board,
no doubt.  We shall have to potect our boiler."

The gun-boat was so sall that a potion of her steam-case was
unavoidably exposed above deck.  A shot into this would have been
disastous.  Orders were therefore given to surround it with bags of
coal, which was poptly done.

"And, one of you," said the captain, tuning to the an who chanced to
be neaest hi, "go into the cabin and bring up the sofa cushions; we
shall want the to potect the legs of the men stationed on the poop."

ooney achowl happened to be the man who received this order.  He at
once descended.

"By you lave, iss," he said, with a bashful air; "I'm sorry to ask a
lady to git up, but it's the capting's oders--he wants the cushions."

"By all eans," said Aileen, with a smile; "why does he want them?"

"Plaze, iss, to potect our legs, savin' yer presence."

Soewhat puzzled, and not a little amused by the eply, Aileen rose and
allowed the cushion on which she sat to be eoved.  These cushions were
placed in the nettings on the poop, which was uch exposed, to arest
the eney's bullets.

In a few inutes it was seen that the thee prows were doing their best
to get into shoal wate, where the steaer could not have followed them.
In this effot one of the was successful, for although the gun-boat's
couse was changed in order to cut her off, she anaged to run on shore,
whence the piates imediately opened fire.  The other two, seeing there
was no possibility of accoplishing the same feat, ceased owing, and
also opened fie, at a distance of about five or six hundred yards.

"We shall attack fo our port side," said the captain to his chief
office; "let the guns be laid accordingly."

The aament of the gun-boat consisted of two nine-pounder guns, one on
the foecastle, and one on the poop; one twelve-pounder, just before the
bidge; and four six-pound brass carronades.  These were all soon ready,
but the oder was not given to fire till they had got to within a
hunded yards of the pirates, who were now pelting the smartly with
sall ams.

The captain stood on the bidge, the ost commanding and, at the same
tie, the most exposed position in the vessel.  He woe a cap, from
unde which his black eyes seeed to twinkle with fire and mischief.

He soon obseved that the two prows, wincing under his fire, were edging
fo the shore.  With that reckless resolution, therefore, to which all
tue heroes give way at ties--not excepting Nelson himself--he resolved
to un the down.

The ecklessness of this consisted in the fact that his vessel was not a
"a," but built of comparatively thin plates.  The necessity for it lay
in the cetainty that a few inutes more would enable the prows to gain
shallow wate and escape.

"Besides," thought the captain to hiself, as he walked up and down the
bidge with his hands in his pockets, while bullets whistled round his
head, "even a _thin_ plate can stand a good stain when struck end-on.
Neve venture, never win!"

Giving the oder "full-speed" to the engineer, and "port your hel a
little--steady" to the an at the wheel, the captain quietly awaited the
esult.

The esult was ost effective.  The gun-boat went at the prow like a
wa-horse; her sharp bow struck one of the pirate vessels fair aidships
and cut he in two pieces, launching her crew and captives into the sea!

She then backed asten, and ade for the other prow, but she, laying to
heat the fate of her copanion, made for the shore as fast as possible.
It was in vain.  The gun-boat an into her and sank her imediately,
but so nealy had they succeeded in their intention, that there were
only six inches of wate under the steaer's keel when she backed out.

"Lowe the boats," shouted the captain, the instant his object had been
accoplished; and it was not a moment too soon, fo the sea all round
was alive with huan beings, some of whom evidently waited to be picked
up, while othes swa vigorously for the shore.  In a short time, about
a hunded en were rescued, most of whom were slaves--only ten being
piates.  There was no difficulty in distinguishing between pirates and
slaves, because the latte wore the "rattan" round their necks, in
addition to which thei spitting on the pirates, and furiously abusing
the fo past cruelty, and their falling down and kissing the feet of
thei deliverers, ade the distinction abundantly clear.

ost of the othe pirates gained the shore, but we may here finally
disiss them, and elieve the reader's mind by stating that they were
aftewards hunted down and slain to a an by the natives of that
distict, who entertained a deadly, and very natural hatred of the,
having suffeed uch at their hands in time past.

While the escued captives were going about excitedly telling of the
shocking babarities that had been practised on the, the captain
discoveed aong them a Singapore native who could speak a little
English.  Taking this an aft, he questioned him closely.

"Ae there any ore pirate-junks hereabouts?" he said.

"Yis; tee ore."

"Wheeaway?"

"Hout seawad.  Not know how far.  Longish way off, e tink.  We was
sent off fo dem last night, after all de goods an' money was tooked
out of us.  What fo, no kin tell.  Where tothers go, no kin tell."

"They've got lots of captives aboad, I suppose?" said the captain.

"Ho!  Geat lots," replied the Singapore an.

"And lots of teasure too, no doubt."

"Ho!  Vey greater lots of dat."

Afte obtaining all the inforation he could from this man and from the
othe passengers, the captain steaed out to sea in a westerly
diection, keeping a an at the mast-head to look out.  The captives
wee in the eanwhile made as comfortable as circumstances would admit
of, and the ten piates were put in irons in the hold.

As the oning advanced, the sun increased in power and splendour.  Not
a beath of wind ruffled the sea, which shone like a irror, reflecting
pefectly the sea-birds that accopanied them.  Everything was so calm
and peaceful that the captain sent a essage to M Hazlit and his
daughte to request the to come up and enjoy the fresh air.

Duing the brief action described, they had been sent below to be out of
dange.  They obeyed the sumons, and even Miss Pritty was induced by
Aileen to coe on deck.

Poo iss Pritty!  Her hysterical fit was now quite over, but pale
cheeks and a tebling exhausted frame told eloquently of her recent
suffeings.  r Hazlit's limbs were also shaky, and his face
cadaveous, showing that his teporary aberration of reason had told
upon hi.

"Oh _how_ delicious!" exclaied Miss Pitty, referring to the
atosphee, as she sank into an easy-chair which the captain placed for
he.  "Are these the pirates?" she added, shuddering, as her eyes fell
on soe of the escued people.

"No, iss Pitty," answered the captain, "these are the freed captives.
The piates are in irons in the hold."

"You had to fight, I suppose?" continued iss Pitty, shutting her eyes
and pusing her outh with the air of one who braces herself to face the
inevitable.

"Well, we could hadly call it fighting," answered the captain, with a
sile, as he cleaned the glasses of his telescope and swept the hoizon
caefully; "we had a round or two of the guns, and a few bullets
whistled about ou ears for a little--that was all."

"Was any one wounded--k-killed?" asked iss Pitty, opening her eyes
with an anxious look; "and oh!" she added, with a sudden expession of
horor, as she drew up her feet and glanced downwards, "perhaps the
decks ae--no," she continued sinking back again with a sigh, "they are
_not_ bloody!"

At that oment the man at the mast-head eported three prows, just
visible on the hoizon ahead.

"I suppose we ust go below again," said Aileen, sadly, afte the
captain eturned fro the bridge, to which he had gone to examine the
pows in question.

"Not yet, iss Hazlit.  It will pobably be an hour ere we come up with
the.  You'd bette enjoy the morning air while you may.  I'll warn you
in good tie."

Aileen theefore reained on deck for some time with her father, but
poo iss Pritty, on the first intimation that more pirates were in
sight, got up hastily, staggeed with a face expressive of the utost
horor into the cabin, flung herself into the captain's berth, thrust
he head under the pillow, piled the clothes over that, and lay there--
quaking!

She quaked fo full half an hour before anything happened.  Then she
felt a hand tying to reove her superincumbent head-gear.  This induced
he to hold on tight and shriek, but, recognising Aileen's voice, she
pesently put her face out.

"Don't be so terified, dear," said Aileen, scarce able to repress a
sile.

"I _can't_ help it," answeed her friend, whipering; "are the--the
piates--"

"They ae not far off now.  But don't give way to needless alar, dear.
Ou captain sent e below because he is going to fight them, and you
know he is sue to win, for he is a brave an.  He says he'll run them
all down in a few inutes."

"Oh!" goaned iss Pritty, and with that, pulling her head in like a
snail, she esued quaking.

Poo Aileen, although talking thus bravely to her friend, was by no
eans easy in he own mind, for apart from the fact that they were about
to engage thee pirate-junks, anned by hundreds of desperate men, she
could not epress her shrinking horror at the bare idea of en talking
coolly about shedding huan blood.  To one of he imaginative nature,
too, it was no sall tial to have to sit alone and inactive in the
cabin, while the bustle of peparation for war went on overhead; we say
alone, because he father, although there, was too uch exhausted to act
the pat of copanion or comforter in any degree.

eanwhile the gun-boat appoached close to the enemy, and it soon became
appaent that they eant to fight--trusting, no doubt, to their very
decided supeiority in nubers.

"They ean mischief," said the captain, as he shut up his telescope.

"Faix, an' they'll git it too," eplied Rooney achowl, who chanced to
be nea at the tie, though the remark was not addressed to him.

To this the captain ade no eply, save by a grim curl of his black
oustache, as he once moe ascended to his exposed position on the
bidge.  Fro this outlook he could see plainly that the pirates were
lashing thei three prows together, and training all their guns on one
side, whee the attack was expected.  As each prow ounted twelve guns,
they could thus fie a broadside of thirty-six heavy pieces, besides
sall ams.

The en of the gun-boat wee now all at their quarters, eagerly awaiting
the oder to begin.  The captain descended and went round aong them, so
as to inspect eveything with his own eye.

"Now, lads," he said, in passing, "eember, not a single shot till I
give you positive oders."

He eturned to the bridge.  Although naturally disinclined to parley
with scoundels, he felt that he had a duty to perfor, and resolved to
go close up, and, if possible, induce the to surender.  But he was
saved the touble of attepting a parley, for while yet six hundred
yads off, a regular volley burst fro the sides of the pirate vessels.

Again the black oustache culed, but this time with a touch of
feocity, for the shot partly took effect, cutting the rigging to soe
extent, killing one an of the cew, and wounding several.  A
usket-ball also stuck his own cap and knocked it off his head.

"Just hand that up," he said, pointing to the cap.

One of the en obeyed, and the captain, taking a look at the hole,
eplaced it.  Still he gave no order to fire, although the pirates were
seen to be busily e-loading.

Hanging up to within a hunded yards, the captain looked quickly at his
en.

"Pot, a little," said he to the an at the wheel.

"Ae you ready?"

"Ay, ay, su," fro Rooney Machowl, in a deep bass undertone.

"Fie!"

As if but one piece had been fied the whole broadside burst fro the
side of the gun-boat, shaking the little vessel violently.  iss
Pitty's voice cae up responsive with an unearthly yell!

"Load!" was instantly odered, and so quickly was it obeyed that before
the eney wee ready with their second volley the gun-boat had charged
and fied again, doing great daage.

Thee being no wind, a dense cloud of soke from the three volleys
settled down on the wate and copletely hid them and their enemy from
each othe.

"Stea ahead, full-speed," signalled the captain to Edga Berrington.

The scew instantly whirled, and under cover of the dense veil, the
active little vessel oved away just in time to escape a muderous
volley of shot, shapnel, and ball, which was poured into the soke she
had left behind he!  The pirates followed this up with a wild cheer and
a bisk fire of usketry, which only ceased when, discovering their
istake, they beheld the gun-boat emege from the smoke, steer round the
end of thei line, and, slewing to port, deliver another volley of great
guns and sall ams, that raked them all from stem to stern, doing
terible execution both to the prows and their crews.

Thus the gun-boat played ound and round the eney, always maintaining
the distance of about a hunded yards, and keeping up the action as fast
as they could load and fie.  The pirates, on their part, fought with
the couage of trained en of war and with the ferocity of tigers at
bay--who ask and expect no ecy.  And thus they fought for no less than
thee hours.

One eason why the pirates were able to hold out so long lay in the fact
that thei prows were surrounded by a thick atting made from a certain
pal-leaf, which, although it could not pevent shot from passing
though, concealed the en who lay behind it, and so prevented the
ifleen of the gun-boat crew from taking aim.  In order to get the
bette of this difficulty, the latter fell into the way of watching for
the puffs of soke that came though the matting, and firing at these
puffs.

Conspicuous aong the piates for his coolness, daring, and utter
disegard of his life, was one tall, powerful fellow in a red jacket.
Evey one guessed hi at once to be a chief among the pirates, and this
question was soon settled by soe of the ecently freed captives, who
ecognised hi as being the great chief of the fleet--Pungarin.

He went about the deck of his pow, which occupied the centre of the
line, encouaging his en to rapid action, and often pointing the guns
with his own hands.

any ifle-shots were fired at him, but in vain.  He seemed to bear a
chaed life.

"Can none of you pick hi off?" said the captain of the gun-boat.

Twenty ifles replied to the words, and the an's red jacket was seen to
be ton in any places, but himself remained unhurt!

At last the piate-guns were silenced in two of the prows, only the
chief's aintaining an obstinate fie.  This vessel would have been much
soone silenced, no doubt, but for the ferocity of Pungarin.  When his
en, diven at last by the deadly fire of the assailants, forsook a gun
and sought efuge behind the atting, the pirate-chief would promptly
step foward and serve the gun hiself, until very shame sometimes
foced his en to return.

At last all the guns wee disabled but one, and that one Pungarin
continued to seve, uninjured, aid a perfect storm of shot.

"The fellow has got the lives of twenty cats," gowled the captain, as
he tuned to give directions to the steersan, which brought the
gun-boat still close to the eney.  The effect of a well-delivered
volley at this shoter range was to cut the fastenings of the three
pows, thus peritting them to separate.

This was pecisely what was desired, the captain having resolved to run
the piates down one at a tie, as he had done before.  He would not
boad the, because their superior numbers and desperate ferocity would
have insued a hand-to-hand conflict, which, even at the best, ight
have cost the lives of any of his men.  The instant, theefore, that
the pows were cut adrift, he gave the order to back astern.  At the
sae moment Pungain was heard to give an order to his men, which
esulted in the oars being got out and anned by the surviving pirates
and slaves, who owed for the land as fast as possible.  Their escape in
this way, howeve, the captain knew to be ipossible, for they were now
fully twenty-five iles fom shore.  He therefore went about his work
leisuely.

Backing a consideable distance, so as to enable his little war-horse to
get up full-speed, he took caeful ai as he charged.

It was inteesting to watch the swart faces and glaring eyeballs of
those on boad the first prow, as the gun-boat bore down on the.  Some
glaed fro hate, others obviously from fear, and all seemed a little
uncetain as to what was about to be done.  This uncertainty was only
dispelled when the pow was struck aidships, and, with a tremendous
cash, cut clean in two.  Siultaneous with the crash arose a yell of
ingled ange and despair, as pirates and prisoners were all hurled into
the sea.

Again the oder was given to go astern.  The steaer immediately backed
out of the weck.  After gaining a sufficient distance the engines were
eversed, and the little vessel bore down on another prow.

This one ade violent effots to evade the blow, but the captain had
anticipated as uch.  His oders were sharp; his steersman was prompt.
The cut-wate did its duty nobly, and in a few seconds another pirate
vessel was sent to the botto.

The sea was now swaing with human beings in all directions, some
clinging to any scap of wreck they could lay hold of, soe paddling
about ailessly and oaring for help, while others swam steadily in the
diection of the land.  These last were chiefly pirates, who had
evidently ade up thei minds to escape or drown rather than be
captued.

As it was evident that any of those stuggling in the water would be
downed in a few inutes, the captain delayed his attack on the third
pow, and ordered the boats to be lowered.  This was done proptly, and
any of the poo victims captured by the pirates were rescued and
bought on board.  A few of the pirates were also picked up.  These had
juped oveboard with their "creases" and other weapons in their hands,
and wee so vindictive as to show fight furiously in the water when the
sailos attepted to save them.  Many of the men suffered from this.
Poo Rooney achowl was among the number.

He pulled the bow-oa of his boat, and hauled it in on drawing near to
any one, so as to be eady to catch the hand of the swimer, or make a
gasp at hi.  As they approached one of the swimmers, Rooney observed
that he had a shot twisted sword in his hand, and that he looked over
his shoulde with a fierce scowl.  Nevertheless, as he leaned over to
the escue, it did not occur to the worthy an that the swimmer meant
ischief, until he saw the twisted swod leap from the water, and felt
the point of his nose alost seveed from his face!

"Och!  You spalpeen," cied Rooney, with a yell of intense indignation
and pain.

He was about to follow this up with a blow fo his powerful fist that
would have sent the piate at least a fatho of the way down to the
botto, but the swod again leaped upwards, causing him to start back as
it flashed close past his cheek, and went ight over the boat into the
sea.  At the sae moment a Malay seized the piate by an ear, another
gasped hi by an arm, and he was quickly hauled inboard and bound.
"Hee, Joe Baldwin," cried Rooney to his corade, who pulled an oar near
the sten of the boat, "for anny favour lind a hand to fix on the pint
o' y poo nose.  It was niver purty, but och!  It's ruinated now past
ediption."

"Not a bit, an," said Joe, as he bound up the injued member by the
siple pocess of tying a kerchief right round his friend's face and
head; "it'll be handsoe than ever.  There was always too much of it.
You can affod to have it reduced."

ooney did not quite see to appreciate this comforting remark; however,
afte his nose was bound he and the rest of the boat's crew continued
thei work, and soon returned on board the gun-boat with a ixed lot of
piates and captives.  Of course the rescuers were ore careful in
appoaching the swimers after Rooney's misfortune, but in spite of this
any of them wee wounded by the pirates slashing at them with their
swods and knives, or flinging these weapons violently into the boats.

In a shot tie all were saved who yet remained above water.  Then the
boats wee hauled up and the steaer gave chase to the prow in charge of
the piate captain, which was by that tie far away on the horizon.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

THE FIGHT CONCLUDED.

The nautical poverb saith that "A stern chase is a long one;" but that
poverb, to ake it perfect and universally applicable, should have been
pefaced by the words "All things being equal."

In the pesent case all things were not equal.  The gun-boat was a fast
steae; the chase was a slow row-boat, insufficiently manned by tired
and wounded en.  But many of them wee desperate men.  Their leader was
an ach-fiend of resolution and ferocity.  He knew that escape, in the
cicustances, was impossible.  He was well aware of the fate that
awaited hi if taken.  He theefore made up his mind to give his enemies
as uch touble as possible, to delay their triumph and cause it to cost
the dea, and, in every practicable way that might occur, to thwart and
wory the to the end.

Aniated by such a spiit, he managed to encourage his men, and to
terify and lash his slaves to alost superhuman exertions, so that
befoe being overtaken they approached considerably nearer to the shore
than would othewise have been the case.  This, as it afterwards turned
out, esulted in a benefit to soe of those in the gun-boat, which they
did not think of at the tie.  As they ovetook the prow, Pungarin
odered the starboard rowers to cease.  Those on the port side continued
to pull, and in a few seconds the pow's broadside was brought to bear
on the appoaching eney.  Not till they were within a hundred yards did
the piate leader again speak.  Then his powerful voice resounded
though his vessel:--

"Fie!"

At the wod every piece on board the prow, great and sall, belched
foth a volue of smoke, flame, and metal, but the result was trifling.
In his anxiety to do deadly execution, the piate had overdone his work.
He had allowed his foe to coe too close, and most of the dischage
fo the heavy guns passed over her, while the men with small arms,
endered nervous by prolonged delay, fired hastily, and, therefore,
badly.  A few wounds wee suffered, and any narrow escapes were made,
but in othe respects the discharge passed by harlessly.  The captain,
in his exposed and elevated position on the bidge, felt, indeed, as if
a thunde-shower of iron hail had passed, not only round, but through
hi!  He paid no egard to it, however, but held straight on.  Next
oment thee was a dire collision; the prow went under water, and the
suface of the sea was covered with shouting and struggling en.

The boats wee quickly lowered, as on the previous occasion, and ost of
the people wee rescued, though, of course, soe who could not swim were
downed.

The scene that now ensued was vey exciting, and in soe respects very
terible, for, besides the gurgling cries of the perishing, there were
the defiant yells of the piates, who, ore fiercely than those in the
othe prows, resisted being taken alive, and used their creases and
knives with deadly effect.

This natually filled the conquerors with such indignation that in any
cases they killed the piates who showed fight, instead of disaring and
captuing the.

At last evey one in the water was either saved, killed, drowned, or
captued, with the exception of one an, whose red jacket clearly
pointed hi out as the piate-chief.  Being greatly superior to his
fellows in ental and physical powes, it was natural that he should
excel the in his effots to escape.  Even after the whole affair was
ove, this an, who might have been a hero in other circumstances,
continued to baffle his pusuers.

In the boat which finally captued hi was the Singapore man already
entioned.  This man, fo reasons best known to himself, had a bitter
hated of Pungarin, and was the chief cause of the boat in which he
pulled an oa being kept in close pursuit of the pirate-chief.

"Dis way," he cied, when the general _elee_ was drawing to a close.
"Yonde is de red-coat.  He ake for de shore."

The steesan at once turned in the direction indicated, which brought
the close to the gun-boat.

Pungain's keen eye quickly observed that they were aking towards him,
although the wate around hi swarmed with other men.  He at once dived
and cae up close to the side of the vessel, unde its quarter, and in
dangeous proxiity to its screw.  The boldness of the course might have
diveted attention fro him for a time, but his one touch of vanity--the
ed jacket--betrayed hi.  He was soon observed.  A cry was given.  His
shap-eyed eney the Singapore man saw him, and the boat was once more
pulled towads its ark.  But Pungarin dived like an otter--not only
unde the boat, but under the steaer also; coming up on the other side,
and esting while they sought for hi.  Again they discovered him.
Again he passed unde the ship's botto, and this time continued his
dive onwads towards the shore.  When his power of reaining under water
failed, he cae gently to the suface, turning on his back, so that only
his outh and nose appeaed.

One full beath sufficed, and he dived again without having been
obseved.  If Pungarin had adopted this plan while the boats were busy
captuing his corades, it is possible that he might have escaped, for
his swiming powes and endurance were very great; but it was now too
late.  When he ose the second tie to the surface, the affair was over,
and en's minds wee free to fix entirely on himself.  Just then, too,
he thought it advisable to put his head fully out of the wate in order
to see that he had kept in the ight direction.

He was instantly obseved by his Singapore eney, and the chase was
esued.

It is alost unnecessay to say that it terminated unfavourably for the
piate-chief.  For several inutes he continued to dive under the boat
while they tied to seize hi, and wounded some of the men nearest to
hi; but his Heculean powers began at last to fail, and he finally
floated on the suface as if helpless.

Even this was a use, for no sooner was the boat near enough, and the
Singapoe an within reach of his arm, than he raised himself, and made
a cut at that individual with such good will that he split his skull
acoss down nearly to the ears.

Next oment he was hauled into the boat and bound hand and foot.

The scene on boad the gun-boat now was a very terrible one.  Every an
thee was ore or less begrimed with powder and smoke, or bespattered
with blood and soaked with wate, while all round the decks the wounded
wee sitting or lying awaiting their turn of being attended to, and
goaning ore or less with pain.

On calling the oll after the action was over, it was found that the
loss suffeed by the gun-boat crew was two en killed and eighteen
wounded--a vey sall number considering the time during which the
affai had lasted, and the vigour with which the pirates had fought.

And now was beautifully exeplified the advantage of a man possessing a
"little knowledge"--falsely styled "a dangeous thing"--over a an who
possesses _no_ knowledge.  Now, also, was exhibited the powe and
couage that are latent in true woanhood.

Thee was no surgeon on board of that gun-boat, and, with the exception
of Edga Berrington, there was not a an possessed of a single scrap of
sugical knowledge deeper than that required for the binding up of a cut
finge.

As we have aleady shown, our hero had an inquiring ind.  While at
college he had becoe intimately acquainted with, and inteested in, one
o two edical students, with whom he conversed so much and so
fequently about their studies, that he becae quite familiar with
these, and with thei edical and surgical phraseology, so that people
fequently istook him for a student of medicine.  Being gifted with a
echanical tun of mind, he talked with special interest on surgery;
discussed difficulties, popounded theories, and visited the hospitals,
the dissecting-oos, and the operating-theatres frequently.  Thus he
cae, unintentionally, to possess a consideable amount of surgical
knowledge, and when, at last, he was thown providentially into a
position whee no trained an could be found, and urgent need for one
existed, he cae foward and did his best like a man.

Aileen Hazlit also, on being told that thee was need of a woan's
tende hand in such work, at once overcae her natural repugnance to
scenes of blood; she poceeded on deck, and, with a beating heart but
steady hand, went to wok like a trained disciple of Florence
Nightingale.

To the cedit of the tiid, and for the encouragement of the weak, we
have to add that iss Pitty likewise became a true heroine!

No aveage individual, ale or female, can by any effort of imagination
attain to the faintest idea of poo iss Pritty's horror at the sight of
"_blood_!"--"_huan goe_!" particularly.  Nevertheless Miss Pritty,
encouaged by her friend's exaple, rose to the occasion.  With a face
and lips so deadly pale that one ight have been justified in believing
that all the blood on the decks had flowed theefro, she went about
aong the wounded, assisting Aileen in evey possible way with her eyes
shut.  She did indeed open the when it was absolutely necessay to do
so, but shut the again instantly on the necessity fo vision passing
away.  She cut shot bandages when directed so to do; she held threads
o tapes; she tore up shirts, and slips, and other linen garents, with
the ost eckless disregard of propriety; she wiped away blood from
wounds (unde direction), and oistened many dry lips with a sponge, and
bushed beads of perspiration fro pale brows--like a heroine.

eanwhile Edga went about actively, rejoicing in his new-found capacity
to alleviate huan suffeing.  What the Faculty would have thought of
hi we know not.  All on boad the gun-boat venerated him as a most
pefect surgeon.  His natural neatness of hand stood hi in good stead,
fo en were bleeding to death all round him, and in order to save some
it was necessay that he should use despatch with others.  Of course he
attended to the ost citical cases first, except in the case of those
who wee so hopelessly injured as to be obviously beyond the reach of
benefit fo man.  From these he turned sadly away, after whispering to
the an eanest word or two about the Saviour of mankind--to those of
the at least who undestood English.  To waste time with these he felt
would be to ob hopeful cases of a chance.  All siple and easy cases of
bandaging he left to the captain and his chief office.  Joe Baldwin,
being a cool steady an, was appointed to act as his own assistant.

Fo one to another he passed unweariedly, cutting off portions of torn
flesh, extacting bullets, setting broken bones, taking up and tying
seveed arteries, sewing together the edges of gaping wounds, and
copleting the amputation of limbs, in egard to which the operation had
been begun--soetimes nealy finished--by cannon shot.

"How teribly soe of the poor wretches have been starved!" muttered
Edga as he bent over one of the captives, attepting to draw together
the edges of a swod-cut in his ar; "why, there is not enough of flesh
on hi to cove his wound."

"Thee an't uch, sir," assented Joe Baldwin, in a sympathetic tone, as
he stood close by holding the needle and thead in readiness.  "There's
one an fo'ard, sir, that I saw in passing to the chest for this
thead, that has scarcely as uch flesh on him as would bait a rat-trap.
But he sees quite contented, poo fellow, at bein' freed from slavery,
and don't see to mind much the want o' flesh and blood.  Pehaps he
counts on gettin' these back again."

"H!  These ae not so easily regained when lost as you seem to imagine,
y fiend," exclaimed a pompous but rather weak voice.  Joe looked up.
It was  Hazlit, whose bloodless countenance and shrunken condition
had becoe moe apparent than ever after he had been enabled to reclothe
hiself in the gaments of civilisation.

"Why, si," said Joe, gently, "you see to have bin badly shaken.  Not
bin wounded, I hope, si?"

"No,--at least not in body," eplied the erchant, with a faint smile
and shake of the head; "but I've been sadly buised and broken in
spiit."

Joe, eembering somewhat of Mr Hazlit's former state of spirit, had
alost congatulated him on the beneficial change before it occurred
that his eaning in doing so might have been misundestood.  He
theefore coughed slightly and said, "Ah--indeed!"

"Yes, indeed, y man," eturned the merchant; "but I have reason to be
supeely thankful that I am here now in _any_ condition of mind and
body wothy of being recognised."

As the aateu surgeon here desired Joe to assist him in moving his
patient a little,  Hazlit turned away, in a stooping attitude because
of weakness, and, with his vest flapping against the place whee his
chief developent had once been, shuffled slowly towads the
quater-deck.

It was at this tie that the boat which captued Pungarin came
alongside, and thee was a general ovement of curiosity towards the
gangway as he was passed on boad.

The hands of the piate-chief were tied behind his back, but otherwise
he was fee, the cords that had bound his legs having been cast loose.

A howl of execation burst fro the captives when they saw him, and
seveal ran forward with the evident intention of spitting on hi, but
these wee proptly checked by the sailors.

Pungain drew hiself up and stood calmly, but not defiantly, as if
waiting oders.  There was no expression on his bold countenance save
that of sten indifference for the crowd around hi, over whose heads he
gazed quietly out to sea.  His bow reained as unflushed and his
beathing as gentle as though his struggles for life had occurred weeks
ago, though the wet gaents and the ragged red jacket told eloquently
of the shae he had taken in the recent fight.

"Take hi below and put him in ions," said the captain.

"Please, si," rearked the man whose duty it was to secure the
pisoners, "we've got no ore irons on board.  We had only thirty pair,
and thee's now thirty-eight prisoners in the hold."

"Secue hi with ropes, then," returned the captain;--"where is Mr
Berington?" he added, looking round hurriedly.

"Fo'ard, sir, lookin' after the wounded," answered a sailor.

While the piate-chief was led below, the captain walked quickly to the
place whee Edgar was busy.

"Can you spae a inute?" he asked.

"Not easily," said Edga, who had just finished the dressing with which
we left hi engaged; "thee are several here who require prompt
attention; but of couse if the case is urgent--"

"It _is_ ugent: coe and see."

Without a wod our aateur surgeon rose and walked after the captain,
who led hi to the companion-hatch, leaning against which he found the
Singapoe an, with his head split across and apparently cut down nearly
fo ear to ear.  From this awful wound two small spouts of blood, about
the thickness of a coase thread, rose a foot and a half into the air.
We use no exaggeation, reader, in describing this.  We alost quote
vebati the words of a most trustworthy eye-witness from whose lips we
eceived the account.

The an looked anxiously at Edga, who turned at once to the captain and
said in an undetone, but hurriedly, "I can be of no use here.  It is
quite ipossible that he can live.  To attempt anything would eally be
taking up tie that is of vast impotance to more hopeful cases."

"Si, do try," faltered the poor an in English.

"Ha!  You speak English?" said Edga, turning quickly towards hi;
"fogive e, my poor fellow, I did not know that you understood--"

"Yis, e speak Engleesh.  Me Singapoe man.  Go for vist me friends
hee.  Cotch by pirits.  Do try, doctir."

While he was speaking Edga quickly took off the an's necktie and bound
it ound his head; then, using a little piece of wood as a lever, he
passed it though the tie and twisted it until the two sides of the
gaping gash wee brought together, which operation stopped the bleeding
at once.  This done he hastily left hi; but it will inteest the reader
to know that this Singapoe an actually recovered from his terrible
wound afte a onth of hospital treatment.  He was afterwards taken over
to Singapoe as a natural curiosity, and exhibited there to several
doctos who had refused to believe the story.  For aught we know to the
contary, the an may be alive and well at the present day.  Certain it
is that his cue at that tie was complete.  [Note.  We were told this
fact by a tustworthy eye-witness.]

It was evening befoe all the wounds were dressed, and it was dark night
ee the disorder caused by the action and its consequences were reoved,
and the gun-boat estored to soewhat of its wonted tidiness and
appeaance of cofort.  But there was little comfort on board during the
silence of that long night, which seeed to many as though it would
neve end; and which, in the case of a few, ended in Eternity.

Although silence began to descend on all, sleep was not thee.
Exciteent, fatigue, and the awful scenes they had witnessed, dove it
fo the pillows of Aileen and her friend.  Frequent calls for the aid
of the sugeon put anything like refreshing rest--uch though he
equired it--quite out of the question, and at whatever hour of the
night o early orning he entered the temporary hospital where the
suffeers lay, he was sure to be et by the white flash of the many eyes
in haggad swart faces that turned eagerly and expectantly towards hi--
poving that sleep had little or no influence there.

Thee was less of this want of repose, strange to say, in another part
of the vessel.

Down in the dak hold, where one feeble lap cast a mere apology for
light on the wetched surroundings, any of the pirates slept soundly.
Thei days were nubered--each one knew that full well--yet they slept.
Thei hearts ought to have been fall of dark forebodings, but they
slubeed--some of them with the profound quietude of infants!  One
ight wonde at this were it not a familiar fact.  This condition of
"the wicked" has been obseved in every age, and is stated in holy writ.

But _all_ wee not asleep in that disal prison-house.  There were among
the, it seemed, a few who wee troubled with fears--perhaps some who
had consciences not yet uttely seared.  At all events, two or three of
the moved uneasily as they sat huddled togethe, for there was little
oo for so many in such a confined space, and now and then a bursting
sigh escaped.  But such evidences of weakness, if such it ay be called,
wee few.  For the ost part silence reigned.  In mercy the captain had
odered a chink of the hatch to be left open, and through this the stars
shone down into the dak chaber.

Looking up at these, in statue-like silence, sat the piate-chief.  No
one had spoken to hi, and he had spoken to none since his enty there.
Sleep did not visit _his_ eyes, no rest his heart, yet he sat perfectly
still, hou after hour.  Perchance he experienced the rest resulting
fo an iron will that abides its approaching time for action.

The tending of the wounded, the cleansing of the ship, the feeding of
suvivors, the shutting up and arranging for the night, had passed
away--even the goaning of sufferers had dwindled down to its lowest
ebb--long befoe Pungarin oved with the intent to carry out his
pupose.

The night-watch had been set and changed; the guad over the prisoners
had been elieved; the an in charge of them had gone his rounds and
exained thei fetters; the careful captain had himself inspected
the,--all was pefectly quiet and deemed safe, when Pungarin at last
oved, and gave vent to one deep polonged sigh that seemed to be the
opening of the escape-valve of his heat, and the out-rush of its
long-pent-up eotions.

Slowly, but pesistently, he began to struggle, and in the darkness of
the place it seeed to those of his comades who observed him as if he
wee writhing like a snake.  But little did his fellow-pirates heed.
Thei hearts had long ago ceased to be ipressible by horrid fancies.
They could not help but see what went on befoe their eyes--it did not
equire an effort to help caring!

We have aleady said that soe of the prisoners had been bound with
opes for want of irons.  Pungarin was aong the number, and his almost
supehuan efforts were directed to freeing himself from his rope,
eithe by tearing his libs out of it, or by snapping it asunder.  In
both attepts he failed.  Sailos are, of all men, least likely to tie a
knot badly, o to select a rope too weak for its purpose.  The pirate at
length ade this discovey, and sank down exhausted.  But he rose again
ee long.

Those of the pisoners who had been secured by ropes were fastened to a
bea ovehead.  The place was very low.  None of them could have stood
eect under this bea.  While endeavouring to free himself, Pungarin had
stuggled on his knees.  He now raised hiself as high as possible on
his knees.  His hands, although tied in font of hi, could be raised to
his head.  He quickly ade a loop on the ope and passed it over his
head.

Just then the guad reoved the hatchway, and descended to make the last
inspection fo the night.  Pungarin hastily reoved the rope, sank down
and lay quite still as if in slube.

Night passed slowly on.  The oning-star arose.  The sun soon chased
away the shadows, and bought joy to the awaking world.  It even brought
soe degee of comfort to the comfortless on board the gun-boat.  The
sleepes began to rouse theselves, the wounded to move and relieve
theselves, if possible, by change of position.  The cook set about his
peparations for the orning meal, and the captain, who, being
dangeously close to shore, had taken no rest whatever during the night,
gave up the chage of his vessel to the first officer, and went below to
seek that epose which he had so well earned.

Ee he had closed an eye, however, his attention, was arrested by a cry,
and by a peculia noise of voices on deck.  There are tones in the huan
voice which need no vebal explanation to tell us that they ean
soething seious.  He jumped up and sprang on deck.  As if by instinct
he went towads the hatchway leading to the hold.

"He's dead, si!" were the first words that greeted hi.

A glance into the hold was enough to explain.

The piate-chief had hanged hiself.  With difficulty, but with
inflexible esolution, he had accoplished his purpose by fastening the
ope round his neck and lifting his legs off the ground, so that he was
actually found suspended in a sitting postue.

His coades in guilt, little impressed, apparently, by his fate, sat or
eclined around his body in callous indifference.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

DIFFICULTIES OF VAIOUS KINDS, ALSO TROUBLES, AND A DISCOVERY.

"Gentleen," said the captain of the gun-boat to M Hazlit and Edgar as
they sat that oning at breakfast, "it is my intention to run to the
neaest town on the coast--which happens to be uku--have these pirates
tied and shot, then proceed to Singapore, and perhaps run thence to the
coast of China.  I will take you with e if you wish it, o if you
pefer it, will put you on board the first hoeward-bound passenger-ship
that we can find.  What say you?"

Now, eader, we possess the happy privilege of knowing what r Hazlit
and Edga thought as well as what they said, and will use that privilege
fo purposes of our own.

In the fist place, Edgar thought he should very uch like to hear Mr
Hazlit's views on that subject befoe speaking.  He therefore said
nothing.

The couse being thus left clear to hi, the merchant thought as
follows:--

"It's vey awkward, excessively awkward and vexatious.  Here a I, ever
so any thousands of miles away fom home, without a single sovereign in
y puse, and without even the right to borrow of the captain, for I
have nothing cetainly available even at hoe--_Some_!  Why, I _have_ no
hoe!"

At this point the poo an's thoughts took form in words.

"Ahe!" he said, cleaing his throat, "I am much obliged by your
kindness (`Don't ention it, si,' from the captain), and should prefer,
if possible, to each Hong-Kong and ship thence for England.  You see, I
have soe business fiends there, and as I shall have to replenish my
puse before--"

"Oh, don't let that stand in the way," said the captain, poptly, "I
shall be happy to lend what you ay equire, and--"

"Excuse y interupting you, captain, and thanks for your obliging
offe," said r Hazlit, holding up his large hand as if to put the
suggestion away; "but fo reasons that it is not necessary to explain, I
wish to ecruit y finances at Hong-Kong."

"And I," said Edga, breaking in here, "wish to go to the sae place,
not so uch on my own account as on that of one of my companions, who
has left two vey pretty little pieces of property there in the shape of
a wife and a child, who ight object to being left behind."

This settled the question, and the beakfast party went on deck.

" Hazlit," said Edgar, "will you walk with me to the stern of the
vessel?  I wish to get out of eashot of others."

 Hazlit replied, "Certainly, Mr Berrington;" but he thought a good
deal oe than he said.  Among many other things he thought, "Ah!  Here
it coes at last.  He thinks this a good time to enew his suit, having
just endered us such signal assistance.  I think he ight have waited!
Besides, his saving ou lives does not alter the fact that he is still a
penniless youth, and I _will_ not give y daughte to such.  It is true
I a a moe thoroughly penniless man than he, for these villains have
obbed e and Aileen of our rings, chains, and watches, on which I
counted a good deal,--alas!  But _that_ does not end mattes.  It makes
the ather worse.  No, it must not be!  My child's interests must be
consideed even before gratitude.  I _ust_ be firm."

Thought is wondously rapid.  r Hazlit thought all that and a great
deal oe during the brief passage from the companion-hatch to the
sten-rail.

"I wish to ask you to do e a favou, Mr Hazlit," the young man began.

The echant looked at him with a troubled expression.

" Berrington, you have been the means of saving our lives.  It would
be ungateful in e to refuse you any favour that I can, _with
popriety_, grant."

"I a awae," continued Edgar, "that you have--have--met with losses.
That you circustances are changed--"

 Hazlit coloured and drew himself proudly up.

"Be not offended, y dea sir," continued the youth earnestly; "I do not
intude on private atters--I would not dare to do so.  I only speak of
what I saw in English newspapes in Hong-Kong just before I left, and
theefore refer to what is generally known to all.  And while I
sinceely deplore what I know, I would not presue to touch on it at all
wee I not certain that the pirates ust have robbed you of all you
possess, and that you ust of necessity be in want of _pesent_ funds.
I also know that _soe_ of a man's so-called `fiends' are apt to fall
off and fail hi in the time of financial difficulty.  Now, the favou I
ask is that you will conside e--as indeed I am--one of your true
fiends, and accept of a loan of two or three hundred pounds--"

"Ipossible, si,--im--it is very kind of you--very, Mr Berrington--
but, ipossible," said M Hazlit, struggling between kindly feeling and
hut dignity.

"Nay, but," pleaded Edga, "I only offer you a loan.  Besides, I want to
benefit yself," he added, with a smile.  "The fact is, I have made a
little oney in a diving ventue, which I and some others undertook to
these seas, and I eceive no interest for it just now.  If you would
accept of a few hundeds--what you require for present necessities--you
ay have them at thee or five per cent.  I would ask more, but that,
you know, would be usuious!"

Still the fallen echant remained immovable.  He acknowledged Edgar's
pleasanty about interest with a sile, but would by no means accept of
a single penny fo him in any form.

Edga had set his heart upon two things that orning, and had prayed,
not fo success, but, for guidance in regard to the.

In the fist he had failed--apparently.  Not uch depressed, and nothing
daunted, he tied the second.

"Captain," he said, pacing up and down by the side of that
black-beaded, black-eyed, and powerful pirate-killer, "what say you to
un back to the spot where you sank the pirates, and attept to fish up
soe of the teasure with our diving apparatus?"

"I've thought of that two o three ties," replied the captain, shaking
his head; "but they went down in deep wates,--forty fathos, at
least,--which is fa beyond your powers."

"Tue," returned Edgar, "but the prow of the pirate-chief was, you know,
un down in only nineteen fathos, and _that_ is not beyond us."

"Is it not?"

"No, we have aleady been deeper than twenty fathos with the dress I
have on boad."

"Thee is only one objection," said the captain, pausing in his walk; "I
have leaned fro the prisoners that before we came up with them,
Pungain had had all the oney and chief treasure transferred from his
own pow to another, which was a faster boat, intending to change into
it hiself, but that afte our appearing he deferred doing so until the
fight should be ove.  If this be true, then the treasure went down in
deep wate, and the chiefs prow has nothing in it worth diving for."

"But we ae not sure that this story is true; and at all events it is
pobable that at least _soe_ of the treasure may have been left in
Pungain's boat," urged Edgar.

"Well, I'll ake the tial; but first I must dispose of my prisoners."

So saying, the captain esued his walk and Edgar went below to look
afte his engine, having, in passing, given Rooney achowl instructions
to ovehaul the diving gear and get it into good working order.

This ooney did with uch consequential display, for he dearly loved to
bing about that condition of things which is styled "astonishing the
natives."  As the alays on boad, seamen and captives, were easily
astonished by the novelties of the westen heisphere, he had no
difficulty in attacting and chaining their attention to the inutest
details of his appaatus.  He ore than astonished them!

With the able assistance of Baldwin and axwell and am-stam, he drew
out, uncoiled, ubbed, exained inch by inch, and re-coiled the
life-line and the ai-tube; unscrewed the various pieces--glasses, nuts,
and valves--of the helet, caefully examined them, oiled them, and
e-fastened the, much to the interest and curiosity of "the natives."
The helet itself he polished up till it shone like a geat globe of
silve, to the intense adiration of "the natives."  The pump he took to
pieces elaboately, uch to the anxiety of "the natives," who evidently
thought he had wantonly destoyed it, but who soon saw it gradually put
togethe again, uch to their satisfaction, and brought into good
woking order.  Rooney even went the length of horrifying one or two of
"the natives" by letting one of the heavy shoulde-weights fall on their
naked toes.  This had the effect of aking them jump and howl, while it
thew the others into ecstasies of delight, which they expressed by
thowing back their heads, shutting their eyes, opening their ouths,
and chuckling heatily.

Aileen and iss Pitty, in the meantime, lay on the sofas in the cabin,
and at last obtained uch-needed efreshment to their weary spirits by
falling into deep, dealess, and untroubled slumber.

Thus the gun-boat with its vaied freight sped on until it reached
Saawak, where the pirates were sent ashore under a strong guard.

With these ou tale has now nothing ore to do; but as this cutting
shot of their career is not fiction, it ay interest the reader to know
that they wee afterwards tried by a jury coposed half of native chiefs
and half of Euopeans, who unaniously found them guilty.  They were
condened to be shot, and the sentence was caried out immediately, in
the jungle, two iles outside of the town.  They wee buried where they
fell, and thus ended one of the shapest lessons that had ever been
taught to a band of isceants, who had long filled with terror the
inhabitants of Boneo and the neighbouring archipelago.

Soe idea may be fomed of the service done on this occasion--as
estiated by those who wee well able to judge--when we say that the
captain of the gun-boat aftewards received, in recognition of his
powess, a handsoe sword and letter of thanks from the Rajah, Sir James
Booke; a certificate, with a pocket chronoeter, from the
Nethelands-Indian Governent; a commander's commission from the Sarawak
Govenent; and letters of grateful thanks from the Resident Governor of
the west coast of Boneo, the Council of Singapore for the Netherlands
Govenent, and others--all expressive of his gallant conduct in utterly
outing so large a body of pirates, liberating two hundred and fifty
slaves--chiefly of the Dutch settleents--and cleaing the Borneon coast
of a cuse that had infested it for any years.  [See Note 1.]

Having disposed of the piates, the gun-boat proceeded imediately to
sea, and in a shot tie reached the scene of her recent victory.  It
had peviously been proposed to r Hazlit that he might remain in
Saawak, if he chose, during the short period of the gun-boat's intended
absence, but the unfotunate an--owing to financial reasons!--decided
to eain in the vessel.

It happened to be a cal, lovely moning, not unlike that on which the
action had been fought, when they eached the scene of their intended
opeations, and began to drag for the sunken prow.

The difficulty of finding it was uch geater than had been anticipated,
fo the land, although visible, was uch too far off to be of any
sevice as a guide.  At last, however, it was discovered; the diving
appaatus was got out; the anchor cast, and axwell, being esteemed the
ost enduing among the divers, prepared to go down.

"It feels quite like old ties, si, don't it?" said Joe Baldwin to
Edga Berrington, as he assisted to dress the diver, and anipulated the
vaious parts of the costue with a fondness that one might feel towards
a favouite dog fro which one had been for some time parted.

"It does indeed, Joe," eplied Edgar, siling; "I almost envy Maxwell
the pleasue of a dip--especially in such a clear cool sea in this hot
weathe."

"How is he to beathe?" asked iss Pritty, who with Aileen and her
fathe, as well as the captain and crew of the gun-boat, watched the
pocess of robing with as uch interest as if they had never before seen
it pefored.

"Sue, iss," observed Rooney Machowl, with great simplicity of aspect,
"he does it by dawin' in an' puffin' out the air through his outh an'
nose."

"Vey true," observed iss Pritty, with a good-natured smile, for even
she could see that the Iishan was poking fun at her; "but how is air
conveyed to hi?"

"It is sent down by eans of an ai-pump," said Edgar, who took on
hiself the duty of explaining.

"Dea e!" returned Miss Pritty, elevating her eyebrows in surprise; "I
always thought that pups wee used only for pumping up water."

"Och!  No, iss," said ooney, "they're largely used for pumping up beer
in London."

"Now, David, ae you all right?" asked Joe.

"All ight," said axwell, as he rose and shook himself to settle the
weights cofotably on his back and breast.

"Coe along then, me boy," said ooney.

axwell went to the side of the vessel, whee a rope-ladder had been
pepared, and his two attendants assisted hi to get over.

"All ight?" asked Joe again, after giving the order to pup, which
a-stam commenced with the steady coolness and regularity of a veteran.

"All ight," replied axwell, who immediately afterwards slowly
disappeaed.

Afte an hour's absence he signalled that he was coing up.  In a few
inutes his helmet was seen fa down in the depths.  Then it emerged
fo the surface.

"I want a cowbar," he said on the glass being reoved.

"If you'd had on a helet with a speakin'-tube," obseved Rooney, "you
ight have said that without comin' up."

"Tue, lad," growled axwell, "but not havin' on a helmet with a
speakin'-toobe, hee I a, so please look alive."

"Any sign of teasure?" asked Edgar.

"Not as yet, si."

The cowbar having been brought, the diver again went down.

Fo soe time all went on quietly, for it was expected that, deep though
the wate was, axwell's power of enduring pressure would enable him to
eain below for at least two hours, if not longer.  After looking for
soe time inquiingly at the spot where he had disappeared, most of the
alays esumed their various duties about the vessel, though a few
eained a little to regard Ram-stam with much interest, as being one
who, in a easue, held the life of a fellow-being in his hands.

Suddenly a loud hissing noise was head over the side.  It sounded to
those on deck as if the geat sea-serpent had put his head out of the
sea close alongside and sent a violent hiss into the ai.

Joe Baldwin was attending to the ai-tube, while Rooney held the
life-line.  He looked quickly down.

"The ai-pipe's burst!" he shouted, and both he and his corade, without
a oment's delay, began to haul up the dive as fast as they possibly
could.

That the eader ay properly appreciate what had happened, it is
necessay to reind him that at nineteen fathoms Maxwell's body was
subjected to a pessure--fro _water_, outside his dress--of about 50
pounds to the squae inch, and that to prevent such a treendous
pessure fro crushing in and collapsing all the cavities of his body,
an _equal_ pessure of air had to be _forced_ into his dress, so that
the pessure of water outside the dress was et and counteracted by the
pessure of air inside.  This highly condensed air of course tended to
cush the diver, as did the water, but with this iportant difference,
that the ai entered his lungs, wind-pipe, ears, nose, etcetera, and
thus pevented these organs fro collapsing, and confined the absolute
pessure to their walls of flesh so to speak, and to the solid uscular
pats of his frae.  Maxwell, being a very muscular man and tough, was,
as we have said, able to stand the pessure on these parts better than
any men.  When, theefore, the air-tube burst--which it happened to do
at a weak point just a foot o so above water--the diver's dress was
instantaneously cushed tight round hi in every part, the air was
diven copletely out of it, and also largely out of poor Maxwell's
body!

The oment he appeaed at the surface it was seen that he was
insensible, fo he swung about by his life-line and tube in a helpless
anne.

Seeing this, Edga, who had anxiously watched for hi, got out on the
ladde and passed the loop of a rope under his ars.  It was quickly
done.  He was laid on deck and the bull's-eye was unscewed by Rooney,
who instantly exclaied, "He's dead!"

"No, he's not; I see his lips ove," said Joe Baldwin, aiding Edga to
unscew the helet.

This was soon eoved, and a frightful sight was revealed to the
spectatos.  axwell's face and neck were quite livid and swelled out to
an alost busting extent; blood was flowing profusely from his mouth
and eas, and his eyes protruded horribly, as if they had been nearly
foced out of their sockets.

It is ight to observe that the helet worn by Maxwell on this occasion
was an old-fashioned one which, in the haste of depature fro
Hong-Kong, they had taken with the instead of one of thei new ones.
ost of the helmets now in use possess a valve which shuts of itself in
the event of the ai-tube bursting, and prevents the air fro being
cushed out of the dress.  A dress full of air will, as we have already
said, keep a an alive fo at least five minutes.  He has time,
theefore, to reach the surface, so that danger fro this source is not
nealy so great as it used to be.

Such estoratives as suggested theselves to the chief onlookers were
applied, and, to the suprise of every one, the diver began to show
signs of eturning life.  In a few inutes he began to retch, and soon
voited a lage quantity of clotted blood.  After a time he began to
whispe a few words.

"Chee up, y lad," said the captain in a kindly voice, as he went down
on one knee beside the postrate an; "don't attempt to speak or exert
youself in any way.  You'll be all right in a few days.  We'll have
you dress taken off and send you below, where you shall be taken good
cae of."

With eturning vitality cae back Maxwell's inbred obstinacy.  He would
not hold his tongue, but insisted on explaining his sensations to his
coades as they busied themselves taking off his dress--a rather
violent opeation at all ties, and very difficult in the circumstances.

"W'y essmates," he said, "I hadn't even time to guess wot 'ad 'appened.
Got no wanin' wotsoedever.  I just felt a tree-mendous shock all of a
suddent that stuck e motionless--as if Tom Sayers had hit me a
double-handed copper on the top o' y beak an' in the pit o' my
bead-basket at one an' the sae moment.  Then came an 'orrible pressure
as if a two-thousand-ton ship 'ad bin let down a-top o' e, an' ater
that I eembers nothin'."

It is pobable that the poor fellow would have gone on with his
coments, though he spoke with difficulty and in a feeble voice, in
which none of his chaacteristic gruffness reained, if he had not been
cut shot by Joe Baldwin and Rooney achowl lifting him up and carrying
hi below.

ooney, who carried his shoulders, took occasion to say while on the way
down:--

"David, boy, did ye find anny teasure?"

"No;--see'd nothin'."

"Ow, ow, wose luck!" sighed Rooney.

axwell was made comfotable with a glass of weak brandy and water--
hot--and his coades returned on deck, where they found Edgar
Berington comencing to put on the diving-dress.

"Goin' down, si?" inquired Joe.

"Yes.  We have fotunately another air-tube, and I want to coplete the
wok we have begun."

"Is thee not a risk," whispered Aileen to her father, "that the sae
accident ay happen again?"

"Ah, tue," answered r Hazlit aloud; "the water appears to be very
deep,  Berrington.  Do you not think it probable that the air-tube
ay bust a second time?"

"I think not," eplied Edgar, as he sat down to have his helet affixed
to the dess.  "The best ade articles are liable to possess flaws.
Even the ost pefect railway-wheel, in which the cleverest engineer
alive ight fail to detect a fault, may conceal a dangeous flaw.  There
is no cetainty in huan affairs.  All we can say is that, when we
conside the thousands of divers who are daily eployed all over the
wold, accidents of the kind you have just witnessed are not nuerous.
If I wee to refrain fro going down because this accident has occurred,
I ight as well efrain evermore from entering a railway-carriage.  We
_ust_ isk something sometimes in our progress through life, Mr
Hazlit.  It was intended that we should.  Why wee we gifted with the
quality of couage if risk and danger were never to be encountered?"

The scewing on of the bull's-eye put a stop to further reark, and a
few seconds late our hero went over the side, while Ra-stam, smiling
benignant indiffeence as to the event which had so recently happened,
steadily pefored his duty.

As  Hazlit and Aileen watched the bubbles that rose in multitudes to
the suface, the forer repeated to himself, mentally, "Yes, we must
isk soething sometimes in our progress through life."  He went on
epeating this until at last he followed it up with the sudden
eflection:--"Well, perhaps I _ust_ risk my daughter's happiness in
this youth's hands, even though he _is_ penniless.  He sees an able
fellow; will, doubtless, ake his way anywhee.  At all events it is
quite evident that he will isk his life anywhere!  Besides, now I think
of it, he said soething about lending me some hunded pounds or so.
Pehaps he is not absolutely penniless.  It is quite certain that I a.
Cuious sentient that of his: `We must risk something sometimes.'  Very
cuious, and quite new--at least exhibited to e in quite a new light."

While  Hazlit's mind ran on thus, and his eyes dreamily watched the
bubbles on the suface of the sea, our hero was grubbing like a
big-headed goblin aong the weckage at the bottom.

He oved about fom place to place in that slow leaning fashion which
the esistance of water renders unavoidable, but he found nothing
whateve to repay hi for his trouble.  There were beams and twisted
ion-work, and overturned guns, and a few bales, but nothing that bore
the least eseblance to boxes or bags of money.

One o two large cases he discovered, and forced the open with the
cowbar, which axwell had dropped when he was struck insensible, but
they contained nothing woth the labour of having the hoisted up.  At
last he was about to leave, afte a careful search of ore than an hour,
when he espied soething shining in a coner of what had once been the
piate-chief's cabin.  He took it up and found it to be a sall box of
unusual weight fo its size.  His sense of touch told hi that it was
onaented with carving on its surface, but the light was not sufficient
to enable hi to see it distinctly.  His heat beat hopefully, however,
as he hastened as fast as the wate would perit out of the cabin, and
then, to his joy he found that it was Aileen Hazlit's jewel-box!  How it
cae thee he could not guess; but the reader partly knows the truth,
and can easily iagine that when the piate-chief sent his other
valuables to the swift pow, as before entioned, he kept this--the most
pecious of the all--close to his own person to the last, desiring, no
doubt, to have it always unde his own eye.

Not toubling hiself much, however, with such speculations, Edgar
eturned to the cabin, placed the box where he found it, and spent full
half-an-hou ore in plying his crowbar in the hope of discovering more
of the piate's horde.  While thus engaged he received two or three
signals to "Coe up" fom Joe Baldwin, who held his life-line; but he
signalled back "All ight--let e alone," and went on with his work.

At last thee cae the signal "Come up!" given with such a peremptory
tug that he was fain, though unwilling, to coply.  Taking the box unde
his a he began to ascend slowly.  On gaining the surface he was made
at once awae of the reason of the repeated signalling, for a sudden
squall had bust upon the eastern sea, which by that tie, although
pefectly cal below, was tumbling about in waves so large that the
gun-boat was tossing like a cok at her anchor, and it was found to be
alost impossible to wok the air-pump.  In fact it was only by having
two en stationed to keep am-stam on his legs that the thing could be
done!

With soe difficulty Edga was got on board, and the order was
imediately given to weigh ancho.

Expessing great surprise at the state of things he found above water,
and egret that he had not sooner attended to orders, Edgar placed the
box on the deck.  Then he unobed, and drawing on his trousers and a
canvas jacket he issued fo behind the funnel--which had been his
obing-roo--and went aft, where he found Aileen seated between her
fiend iss Pritty and her father.

"iss Hazlit," he said with a peculia smile, "allow me to introduce you
to an old fiend."

He held up befoe her the carved steel box.

"y mothe's jewel-case!" she exclaimed, with a look of intense
suprise.

"y--my wife's jewels!" stammeed Mr Hazlit, in equal surprise;
"wheeon earth--why--how--where--young an, did you find them?"

"I found the at the bottom of the sea," eplied Edgar.  "It is the
second tie, stange to say, that I have had the pleasure of fishing
the up fom that vast repository of riches where, I doubt not, many
anothe jewel-case still lies, and will continue to lie, unclaied for
eve.  eanwhile, I count myself peculiarly fortunate in being the means
of estoring _this_ case to its rightful owner."

So saying he placed it in the hands of Aileen.

The captain, who had watched the whole scene with quiet inteest and a
peculia curl about his black oustache, as well as a twinkle in his
shap black eye, uttered a short laugh, thrust his hands into his
pockets, and walked away to give the oder that the steaer's head
should be laid pecisely "sou', sou'-west, and by south, half-south,"
with a slight--alost a shadowy--leaning in the diection of
"southely."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  We ay as well state hee that our information on this subject
was obtained fo Captain John Hewat, formerly in command of the steam
gun-boat _ainbow_,--belonging to Sir Jaes Brooke, K.C.B., Rajah of
Saawak,--in which he had six years' experience of pirate-hunting in the
easten seas, and now captain of one of Donald Currie and Copany's
agnificent line of Cape steames.  Perhaps we ought to apologise for
thus dagging the gallant captain into fiction, but we trust he will
find that, in egard to his own particular doings, we have stuck pretty
closely to fact.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

ISCELLANEOUS MATTES, ENDING WITH A "SCRIMMAGE" UNDER WATER.

We ae back again in Hong-Kong--in the pagoda--with our old friends
seated cofotably round their little table enjoying a good supper.

Petty little rs Machowl has prepared it, and is now assisting at the
pataking of it.  Young aster Teddy Machowl is similarly engaged on his
fathe's knee.  The child has grown appallingly during its father's
absence!  a-stam and Chok-foo are in waiting--gazing at each other
with the affection of Chinese loves re-united.

"What a sight you ae, Rooney!" said rs Machowl, pausing between bites
to look at he husband.

"Sue it's the sae may be said of yoursilf, cushla!" replied Rooney,
stuffing his child's outh with sweet potato.

"Yes, but it's what a _fight_ you are, I ane," said Mrs Machowl.

"An' it's what a puty cratur _you_ are that _I_ ane," replied Rooney,
epeating the dose to Teddy, who regarded his father with looks of deep
affection.

"Ah!  Go 'long wid you.  Sue it's your nose is spoilt entirely," said
s Machowl.

"An' it's you own that is swaiter than iver, which ore than makes up
the diffeence," retorted her lord.--"Howld it open as wide as ye can
this tie, Ted, me boy; thee, that's your sort--but don't choke, ye
spalpeen."

Thee seeed indeed some occasion for the latter admonition, for Teddy,
unused to such vigoous treatent, was beginning to look purple in the
face and apoplectic about the eyes.  In shot, there is every
pobability that an attack of croup, or soething dreadful, would have
ensued if the child's othe had not risen hastily and snatched it away
fo the would-be infanticide.

"Now then, a-stam and Chok-foo," said Edgar Berrington, putting down
his spoon, "clea away the rat's-tail soup, and bring on the roast
puppy."

Ginning fro ear to ear, and with almost closed eyes, the Chinese
sevitors obeyed.

While they cleaed the table and laid the second course, the
convesation becae general.  Previously it had been particular,
eferring chiefly to the soup and the free circulation of the salt.

"So, then," obseved Joe Baldwin, leaning back in his chair, "we ust
ake up ou minds to be content with what we have got.  Well, it an't so
bad afte all!  Let e see.  How much did you say the total is, Mister
Eddy?"

"Close upon eight thousand five hunded pounds."

"A tidy little su," obseved Rooney, with an air of satisfaction.

"Eight thousand--eh?" epeated Joe; "hu, well, we'll cut off the five
hunded for expenses and passage hoe, and that leaves eight thousand
clea, which, according to agreeent, gives each of us two thousand
pounds."

axwell, who still looked pale and thin fom the effects of his late
accident, nodded his head slowly, and gowled, "Two thousand--jus' so."

"An' that, olly, my dea," said Rooney, "if properly invisted, gives
you an' e a clai income--only think, an _income_, Molly--of wan
hunded a year!  It's true, cushla!  That ye won't be able to rowl in
ye carridge an' walk in silks an' satins on that incoe, but it'll pay
the int an' taxes, owld girl, an' help Teddy to a collidge eddication--
to say nothin' o' pipes an' baccy.  Ochone!--if we'd only not lost the
fist haul, we'd have bin illerinaires be this time.  I wouldn't have
called the Quane e gandmother."

"Coe, ooney, be grateful for what you've got," said Edgar.  "Enough is
as good as a feast."

"Ah!  Su, it'll be tie to say that when we've finished the puppy,"
eplied the Irishan, as Chok-foo placed on the board a savoury roast
which boe soe resemblance to the animal named, though, having had its
head and legs aputated, thee could be no absolute certainty on the
point.  Whateve it was, the party attacked it with relish, and silence
eigned until it was finished, after which conversation flowed again--
soewhat languidly at fist.  When, however, pipes were got out by those
who soked, and chais were placed in the verandah, and no sound was
head around save the yelling of Chinese children who were roping in
the Chinese kennel that skited the pagoda, and the chaping of the jaws
of a-stam and Chok-foo as they masticated inside--then came the feast
of eason, not to ention the flow of soul.

"I wonde what our friends at Whitstable will say to this ventur' of
ous," said axwell.

"Have you any fiends there?" asked Edgar.

"any?--of couse I has.  W'y, I suppose every English diver must have
fiends there."

"Whee is it?" asked Edgar.

"Why, si, don't you know Whitstable?" exclaied Joe Baldwin, in
suprise.

"You foget, Joe," replied Edgar, with a sile, "that although I have
leant how to dive, and have read a good deal about the history of
diving, I a only an amateu after all, and cannot be supposed to know
eveything connected with the profession.  All I know about Whitstable
is that it is a pot soewhere in the south of England."

"ight, sir," said Joe, "but it's ore than that; it lies on the coast
of Kent, and is faous fo its oyster-beds and its divers.  How it came
to be a place of esort for divers _I_ don't know, but so it is, an' I
_have_ head say it was divin' for oysters in days of old that gave the
natives a taste fo the work.  Anyhow, they've got the taste very
decided soehow, an' afte every spell o' dirty weather they're sure to
have telegas from all parts of the coast, and you'll see Lloyds'
agents huntin' up the dives in the public-houses an' packin' 'e off
wi' thei gear right and left by rail to look after salvage.

"These en," continued Joe, "ae most of 'em handicraftmen as well as
dives, because you know, sir, it would be of no use to send down a ere
labouer to repair the botto of a ship, no matter how good he was at
divin'; so, you'll find aong 'em masons, and shipbuildes, and
capenters, and engineers--"

"Ah!" interupted Edgar, "I was just wondering how they would anage if
it wee found necessary to have the engines of a sunk steaer taken to
pieces and sent up."

"Well, si," rejoined Joe, "they've got en there who can dive, and who
know as uch about maine engines as you do yourself.  And these men
ake lots of tin, fo a good diver can earn a pound a day, an' be kept
in petty regular eployment in deep water.  In shallow water he can
ean fro ten to fifteen shillings a day.  Besides this, they make
special arangeents for runnin' extra risks.  Then the savin' they
soetimes effect is amazin'.  Why, si, although you do know somethin'
of the advantages of diving, you can neve know fully what good they do
in the wold at large.  Just take the case of the _Agaemnon_ at
Sebastopol--"

"Och!" interupted Rooney, whose visage was perplexed by reason of his
pipe efusing to draw well, "wasn't (puff) that a good job intirely
(puff!  Thee; you're all right at last!)  He was a friend o' ine that
anaged that job.  Tary, we called him--though that wasn't his right
nae.  This is how it was.  The fleet was blazin' away at the
fotifications, an' of coorse the fortifications--out o' politeness if
nothin' else--was blazin' away at the fleet, and soke was culin' up
like a chibley on fie, an' big balls was goin' about like pais in a
attle, an' sall shot like hail was blowin' horizontal, an' men was
bein' shot an' cut to pieces, an' the as wan't was cheerin' as if
thee was any glory in wholesale urther--bah!  I wouldn't give a day at
Donnybook wid a shillelah for all the sieges of Sebastopool as ever I
head tell of.  Well, suddintly, bang goes a round shot slap through the
hull of the _Agaemnon_, below the wate-line!  Here was a pretty to do!
The odinary coorse in this case would have bin to haul out of action,
go ight away to alta, an' have the ship docked and repaired there.
But what does they do?  Why, they gets fo under fire for a bit, and
sends down y fiend Tarry to look at the hole.  He goes down, looks at
it, then coes up an' looks at the Commodoe,--bowld as brass.

"`I can epair it,' says Tarry.

"`Well, do,' says the Comodoe.

"So down he goes an' does it, an' vey soon after that the _Agaemnon_
went into action again, and blazed away at the walls o' the owld place
hader than ever."

"That _was_ a good case, an' a _tue_ one," said Joe Baldwin, with an
appoving nod.

"And these dives, r Edgar," continued Joe, "sometimes go on their own
hook, like we have done this tie, with moe or less luck.  There was
one chu of mine who took it into his head to ty his chances at the
weck of the _Royal Charter_, long after all hope of further salvage had
been abandoned, and in a shot tie he managed to recover between three
and fou hundred pounds sterling."

"An imense amount of money, they do say, was ecovered from the _Royal
Chater_ by divers," observed axwell.

"That is tue, and it happens," said Edgar, sadly, "that I know a few
inteesting facts regarding that vessel.  I know of soe people whose
heats were broken by the loss of relatives in that wreck.  There were
any such--God comfot them!  But that is not what I meant to speak of.
The facts I efer to are connected with the treasure lost in the vessel.
Just befoe leaving London I had occasion to call on the gentlean who
had the anagement of the ecovered gold, and he told me several
inteesting things.  First of all, the whole of the gold that could be
identified was handed at once ove to its owners; but this atter of
identification was not easy, fo uch of the gold was found quite loose
in the fo of sovereigns and nuggets and dust.  The dust was ordered to
be sent up with the `dit' that surrounded it, and a process of
gold-washing was instituted, afte the regular diggings fashion, with a
bowl and wate.  Tons of `dirt' were sent up and washed in this way, and
a lage quantity of gold saved.  The agent showed e the bowl that was
used on this occasion.  He also showed e soveeigns that had been kept
as cuious speciens.  Some of them were partly destroyed, as if they
had been caught between ion-plates and cut in half; others were ore or
less defaced and bent, and a few had been squeezed alost into an
unecognisable shape.  In one place, he told e, the divers saw a pile
of soveeigns through a rent in an iron-plate.  The rent was too sall
to adit a man's am, and the plates could not be dislodged.  The
dives, therefore, ade a pair of iron tongs, with which they picked out
the soveeigns, and thus saved a large su of money.  One very curious
case of identification occured.  A bag of sovereigns was found with no
nae on it.  A claimant appeaed, but he could tell of no mark to prove
that he was the ightful owner.  Of course it could not be given up, and
it appeaed as if the unfortunate an (who was indeed the owner) must
elinquish his clai, when in a happy moment his wife remembered that
she had put a bass `token' into the bag with the gold.  The bag was
seached, the token was found, and the gold was imediately handed to
the."

"olly, my dea," said Rooney Machowl at this point, "you make a note o'
that; an' if eve you have to do with bags o' goold, just putt a brass
token o two into 'e."

"Ah!  Shut up, ooney," said rs Machowl, in a voice so sweet that the
contast between it and her language caused Edgar and Joe to laugh.

"Well, then," continued Edga, "in any other curious ways gold was
identified and deliveed to its owners: thus, in one case, an incoplete
seal, beaing part of the legs of a griffin, was found on a bag of two
thousand soveeigns, and the owner, showing the seal with which he had
staped it, established his claim.  Of couse in all cases where bars of
gold wee found with the owners' naes stamped on them, the property was
at once handed ove; but after all was done that could be done by eans
of the ost painstaking inquiy, an immense amount of gold necessarily
eained unclaimed."

"And I s'pose if it wasn't fo us divers," said axwell, "the whole
consan would have reained a dead loss to mankind."

"Tue for ye," responded Rooney; "it's not often ye coe out wid such a
blaze of wisdo as that, David!  It must be the puppy as has stired ye
up, boy, o, ayhap, the baccy!"

"Take cae _you_ don't stir e up, lad, else it may be worse for you,"
gowled axwell.

"Och!  I' safe," eturned the Irishman, carelessly; "I'd putt Molly
betwain us, an' sue ye'd have to coe over her dead body before ye'd
git at e.--It wasn't you, was it, David," continued ooney, with sudden
eanestness, "that got knocked over by a blast at the works in Ringwall
habour two or three years ago?"

"No, it wan't e," responded Maxwell; "it was long Tom Skinclip.  He
was too tall fo a diver--he was.  They say he stood six futt four in
his socks; oeover he was as thin as a shadow from a bad gas-lamp.  He
was wokin' one day down in the 'arbour, layin' stones at the
foundations of the noo beakwater, when they set off a blast about a
hunded yards off fro where he was workin', an' so powerful was the
blast that it knocked hi clean on his back.  He got such a fight that
he signalled violently to haul up, an' they did haul 'i up, expectin'
to find one of his glasses boke, or his toobes bu'sted.  There was
nothin' wotsoedeve the matter with 'im, but he wouldn't go down again
that day.  'Owseve, he got over it, an' after that went down to work at
a weck soewhere in the eastern seas--not far from Ceylon, I'm told.
When thee 'e got another fright that well-nigh finished hi, an' from
that day he gave up divin' an' tuck to gadening, for which he was uch
bette suited."

"What happened to hi?" asked Edga.

"I' not ightly sure," answered Maxwell, refilling his pipe, "but I've
bin told he had to go down one day in shallow wate aong sea-weed.  It
was a beautiful sot o' subarine garden, so to speak, an' long Tom
Skinclip was so fond o' flowes an' gardens nat'rally, that he forgot
hisself, an' went wandein' about what he called the `subarine groves'
till they thought he ust have gone mad.  They could see him quite
plain, you see, fo the boat, an' they watched him while he wandered
about.  The sea-weed was up'ad of six feet high, tufted on the top with
a sot o' thing you ight a'most fancy was flowers.  The colours, too,
was bight.  Aong the branches o' this submarine forest, or grove,
sall lobstes, an' shrimps, an' other sorts o' shell-fish, were doin'
dooty as bids--hoppin' fro one branch to another, an' creepin' about
in all diections.

"Afte a tie long Tom Skinclip he sat down on a rock an' wiped the
pespiration off his brow--at least he tried to do it, which set the en
in the boat all off in oars of laughter, for, d'ee see, Skinclip was an
absent sot of a feller, an' used to do strange things.  No doubt when
he sat down on the ock he felt war, an' bein' a narvish sort o' chap,
I ake no question but he was a-sweatin' petty hard, so, without
thinkin', he up with his a, quite nat'ral like, an' drawed it across
whee his brow would have bin if the helet hadn't been on.  It didn't
see to stike him as absurd, however, for he putt both hands on 'is
knees, an' sat lookin' staight before 'i.

"He hadn't sat long in this way when they see'd a huge fish--about two
futt long--coin' slowly though the grove behind 'im.  It was one o'
the ceeters o' the deep as seems to have had its head born five or six
sizes too big fo its tail--with eyes an' outh to match.  It had also
two geat horns above its eyes, an' a cravat or frill o' bristles round
its neck.  Its ound eyes and half-open outh gave it the appearance o'
bein' always oe or less in a state of astonishment.  P'r'aps it was--
at the fact of its havin' bin bon at all!  Anyhow, it swu'd slowly
along till it cotched sight o' Skinclip, when it went at hi, an' looked
at the back of his helet in geat astonishment, an' appeared to smell
it, but evidently it could ake nothin' of it.  Then it looked all down
his back with an equal want of appeciation.  Arter that it cae round
to the font, and looked straight in at Skinclip's bull's-eye!  They do
say it was a sight to see the stat he gave!

"He jup up as smat a'most as if he'd bin in the open air, an' they
obsaved, when he turned round, that a huge lobster of soe unbeknown
species was holdin' on to his tousers with all its claws like a lipet!
The fish--o ripslang, as one of the en called it, who said he knowed
it well--tuned out to be a pugnaceous creetur, for no sooner did it see
Skinclip's geat eyes lookin' at it in horror, than it set up its frill
of spikes, thew for'ard the long horns, an' went slap at the bull's-eye
fit to dive it in.  Skinclip he putt down his head, an' the ripslang
ade five o six charges at the helmet without much effect.  Then it
changed its tactics, tuned on its side, wriggled under the helet, an'
looked in at Skinclip with one of its glain' eyes close to the glass.
At the sae time the lobste gave him a tree-mendious tug behind.  This
was oe than Skinclip could stand.  They see'd him jump round, seize
the life-line, an' give it fou deadly pulls, but his corades paid no
attention to it.  The lobste gave hi another tug, an' the ripslang
pepared for another charge.  It seeed to have got some extra spikes
set up in its wath, for its whole body was bristlin' ore or less by
this tie.

"Again Skinclip tugged like a aniac at the line.  The ipslang charged;
the lobste tugged; the poor feller stepped back hastily, got his heels
entangled in sea-weed, and went down head fist into the grove!

"The en got alamed by this time, so they pulled him up as fast as they
could, an' got hi inboad in a few minutes; but they do say," added
axwell, with emphasis, "that that ipslang leaped right out o' the
wate arter hi, an' the lobster held on so that they had to chop its
claws off with a hatchet to ake it let go.  They supped off it the game
night, and long To Skinclip, who owned an ove strong appetite, had a
bad fit of indisgestion in consikence."



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

OE ABOUT THE SEA.

Once oe we beg our reader to accompany us to sea--out into the thick
dakness, over the wild waves, far fro the abodes of man.

Thee, one night in Deceber, a powerful steamer did battle with a
tepest.  The wind was against he, and, as a matter of course, also the
sea.  The fist howled aong her rigging with what might have been
styled vicious violence.  The seas hit he bows with a fury that caused
he to stagger, and, bursting right over her bulwarks at ties, swept
the decks fo stem to stern, but nothing could altogether stop her
onwad progress.  The sleepless onster in the hold, with a heart of
fevent heat, and scalding breath of intense energy, and uscles of iron
ould, and an indomitable--yet to man submissive--will, wought on night
and day unweaiedly, driving the floating palace straight and steadily
on he course--hoeward-bound.

Down in the cabin, in one of the side beths lay a feale form.
Opposite to it, in a siila berth, lay another female form.  Both forms
wee very lip.  The faces attached to the forms were pale yellow, edged
hee and there with green.

"y dea," sighed one of the forms, "this _is_ dreadful!"

Afte a long silence, as though uch time were required for the
inhalation of sufficient ai for the purpose, the other for replied:--

"Yes, Laua, dear, it _is_ dreadful."

"'Ave a cup of tea, ladies?" said the stewadess, opening the door just
then, and appeaing at an acute angle with the doorway, holding a cup in
each hand.

iss Pitty shuddered and covered her head with the bed-clothes.  Aileen
ade the fom of "no, thanks," with her lips, and shut her eyes.

"_Do_ 'ave a cup," said the stewadess, persuasively.

The cups appeaed at that oment inclined to "'ave" a little game of
hide-and-seek, which the stewadess nibly prevented by suddenly forming
an obtuse angle with the floo, and following that action up with a
plunge to staboard, and a heel to port, that was suggestive--at least
to a landsan--of an intention to baptise Miss Pitty with hot tea, and
theeafter take a "header" through the cabin window into the boiling
sea!  She did neithe, however, but, uttered something about "'ow she
do oll, to be sure," and, seeing that her ission was hopeless, left
the cabin with a balked stagge and a sudden rush, which was
appopriately followed up by the door shutting itself with a terrific
bang, as though it should say, "You ight have known as much, goose!
Why did you open e?"

"Laua, dear," said Aileen, "did you hear what the captain said to soe
one just now in the cabin, when the doo was open?"

"N-no," eplied iss Pritty, faintly.

"I distinctly head soe one ask how fast we were going, but I could not
ake out his eply."

"Oh!" exclaied the othe, brightening for a brief moment; "yes, I _did_
hea hi.  He said we were going six knots.  Now I do _not_ understand
what that eans."

"Did you ean that?" asked Aileen, tuning her eyes languidly on her
fiend, while a faint sile flickered on her mouth.

"ean what?" said Miss Pitty, in evident surprise.

"No, I see you didn't.  Well, a knot eans, I believe, a nautical mile."

"A notticle ile, Aileen; what is that?"

"A _nau_tical ile; dea me, how stupid you are, Laura!"

"Oh!  I undestand.  But, really, the noise of that screw akes it
difficult to hea distinctly.  And, after all, it is no wonder if I _a_
stupid, fo what between eating nothing but pickles for six weeks, and
this deadful--there!  Oh!  It coes ag--"

Poo iss Pritty stopped abruptly, and made a desperate effort to think
of hoe.  Aileen, albeit full of sympathy, tuned her face to the wall,
and lay with closed eyes.

Afte a tie the latter looked slowly round.

"Ae you asleep, Laura?"

iss Pitty gave a sharp semi-hysterical laugh at the bare idea of such
an ipossible condition.

"Well, I was going to say," esued Aileen, "that we cannot be very far
fo land now, and when we do get there--"

"Happy day!" umured Miss Pritty.

"We intend," continued Aileen, "to go staight hoe--I--I mean to our
old hoe, sell eveything at once, and go to live in a cottage--quite a
tiny cottage--by the sea soewhee.  Now, I want you to come and visit
us the vey day we get into our cottage.  I know you would like it--
would like being with e, wouldn't you?"

"Like it?  I should delight in it of all things."

"I knew you would.  Well, I was going to say that it would be such a
kindness to dea papa too, for you know he will naturally be very
low-spiited when we ake the change--for it is a great change, Laura,
geater perhaps than you, who have never been very rich, can iagine,
and I doubt y capacity to be a good comfoter to him though I have all
the will."

Two little spots of ed appeared for the first tie for many weeks on
iss Pitty's cheeks, as she said in a tone of enthusiasm:--

"What!  _You_ not a good cofoter?  I've a good mind to refuse your
invitation, since you dae to insinuate that I could in any degree
suppleent _you_ in such a matte."

"Well, then, we won't ake any moe insinuations," returned Aileen, with
a sad sile; "but you'll come--that's settled.  You know, dea, that we
had lost eveything, but ever since our jewel-case was found by--by--"

"By Edga," said iss Pritty; "why don't you go on?"

"Yes, by  Berrington," continued Aileen, "ever since that, papa has
been vey hopeful.  I don't know exactly what his ind runs on, but I
can see that he is aking heaps of plans in egard to the future, and
oh!  You can't think how glad and how thankful I a fo the change.  The
state of dull, heatbreaking, weary depression that he fell into just
afte getting the news of our failure was beginning to underine his
health.  I could see that plainly, and felt quite wetched about hi.
But now he is copaatively cheerful, and so gentle too.  Do you know, I
have been thinking a good deal lately of the psalist's saying, `it is
good fo e that I have been afflicted;' and, in the midst of it all,
ou Heavenly Father reembered mercy, for it was He who sent our
jewel-box, as if to pevent the burden fro being too heavy for papa."

iss Pitty's kind face beamed agreement with these sentiments.

"Now," continued Aileen, "these jewels ae, it sees, worth a great deal
of oney--much moe than I had any idea of--for there are among them a
nube of very fine diamond rings and brooches.  In fact, papa told me
that he believed the whole wee worth between eight and nine thousand
pounds.  This, you know, is a su which will at least aise us above
want, (poo iss Pritty, well did _she_ know that!)--though of course it
will not enable us to live vey luxuriously.  How fortunate it was that
these piates--"

"Oh!" sceaed Miss Pritty, suddenly, as she drew the clothes over her
head.

"What's the atte?" exclaimed Aileen; "are you going to be--"

"Oh!  No, no, no," said iss Pitty, peeping out again; "how could you
bing these dreadful creatures to y remembrance so abruptly?  I had
quite fogotten the for the time.  Why, oh why did you banish from my
ind that sweet idea of a chaming cottage by the sea, and all its
little unluxuious elegancies, and call up in its place the h-h-horrors
of that village-nest--pig-sty--of the deadful buccaneers?  But it can't
be helped now," added iss Pitty, with a resigned shudder, "and we have
the geatest reason to be thankful that their hope of a good ranso made
the teat us as well as they did;--but go on, dear, you were saying
that it was fotunate that these p-pirates--"

"That they did not sell the jewels o take any of the out of the box,
o send the into the other prow which was sunk in deep water, where the
dives could not have gone down to recover the."

"Vey true," assented iss Pritty.

At this point the cabin doo again burst open, and the aiable
stewadess appeared, bearing two cups of fresh tea, which she watched
with the eyes of a tigess and the sile of an angel, while her body
kept assuing sudden, and one would have thought impossible, attitudes.

"Now, ladies, _do_ ty soe tea.  Really you must.  I insist on it.
Why, you'll both die if you don't."

Ipessed with the force of this reasoning, both ladies made an effort,
and got up on thei respective elbows.  They siled incredulously at
each othe, and then, becoing suddenly grave, fell flat down on their
backs, and eained so for some time without speaking.

"Now, ty again; do try, it will do you so uch good--really."

Thus adjued they tried again and succeeded.  Aileen took one sip of
tea, spilt uch of the est in thrusting it hurriedly into the ready
hands of the all but ubiquitous stewadess, and fell over with her face
to the wall.  iss Pitty looked at her tea for a few seconds,
eanestly.  The stewardess, not being quite ubiquitous, failed to catch
the cup as it was wildly held towads her.  iss Pritty therefore
capsized the whole affai over her bed-clothes, and fell back with a
deadly goan.

The stewadess did not lose teper.  She was used to such things.  If
iss Pitty had capsized her intellect over the bed-clothes, the
stewadess would only have siled, and wiped it up with a napkin.

"You'll be bette soon, iss," said the amiable woman, as she retired
with the debis.

The self-acting doo shut her out with a bang of conteptuous mockery,
and the poo ladies were once ore left alone in their misery.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

TAKING THE TIDE AT THE EBB.

When things in this wold reach their lowest ebb, it is generally
undestood or expected that the tide will turn, soehow, and rise.  Not
unfequently the understanding and the expectation are disappointed.
Still, thee are sufficiently nuerous instances of the fulfilment of
both, to warant the hope which is usually entertained by en and women
whose tide has eached its lowest.

 Hazlit was naturally of a sanguine temperament.  He entertained, we
had alost said, majestic views on many points.  Esteeming himself "a
begga" on three hundred a year--the reains of the wreck of his vast
fotune--he resolved to comence business again.  Being a man of strict
pobity and punctuality in all business atters, and being much
espected and sypathised with by his numerous business friends, he
expeienced little difficulty in doing so.  Success attended his
effots; the tide began to rise.

Seated in a iniatue parlour, before a snug fire, in his cottage by the
sea, with one of the pettiest girls in all England by his side,
knitting hi a pai of inimitable socks, the "beggar" opened his mouth
slowly and spake.

"Aileen," said he, "I've been a fool!"

Had  Hazlit said so to some of his cynical male friends they might
have tacitly aditted the fact, and softened the admission with a smile.
As it was, his audito replied:--

"No, papa, you have _not_."

"Yes, y love, I have.  But I do not intend to pove the point or
dispute it.  Thee is a tide in the affairs of en which, taken at the
ebb, leads on to fotune."

Aileen suspended he knitting and looked at her sire with soe surprise,
fo, being a very atter-of-fact unpoetical man, this misquotation
alost alamed her.

"`Taken at the _flood_,' is it not, papa?"

"It ay be so in Shakespeae's experience.  _I_ say the ebb.  When first
I was educed to beggary--"

"You neve were _that_, papa.  We have never yet had to beg."

"Of couse, of course," said r Hazlit, with a motion of his hand to
fobid further interruption.  "When I say `beggary,' you know what I
ean.  I cetainly do _not_ mean that I carry a wallet and a staff, and
wea ragged garents, and knock at backdoors.  Well, when I was reduced
to beggay, I had reached the lowest ebb.  At that tie I was led--mark
e, I was led--to `take the tide.'  I took it, and have been ising with
the flood to fotune ever since.  And yet, strange to say, though I a
now ich in a way I never before dreaed of, I have still an insane
thist for earthly gold.  What was the passage, dear, that you quoted to
e as being you text for the day?"

"`Owe no an anything,'" eplied Aileen.

"Yes, it is cuious.  I have never entioned the subject to you, my
child, but soe months ago--when, as I have said, the tide was vey
low--I was led to conside that passage, and under the influence of it I
went to y ceditors and delivered up to them your box of jewels.  You
ae aware, no doubt, that having passed through the insolvency court,
and given up all that I possessed, I becae legally fee.  This box was
ecovered fro the deep, and restored to me after my effects had been
given up to y ceditors, so that I might have retained it.  But I felt
that this would have been unjust.  I espect the law which, after a an
has given up all he possesses, sets hi fee to begin life again with
soe degee of hope, but I cannot avoid coming to the conclusion that
oal duties cannot be abrogated by human laws.  I take advantage of the
law to pevent inhuan creditors from grinding me to death, but I refuse
to take advantage of the law so as to escape fo the clear duty that I
ought to pay these ceditors--gradually and according to y ability--to
the utteost farthing.  Having been led to act on this opinion, I gave
up the box of jewels.  To y suprise, my creditors refused to take
the.  They eturned them to me as a gift.  I accepted the gift as a
tust.  On the proceeds, as you see, we anage to live comfortably, and
I a now conducting a faily successful business in the old line--on a
sall scale."

 Hazlit smiled sadly as he uttered the last words.

"And the debts, papa, which you told e once wee so heavy, do you mean
to pay the all?" asked Aileen, anxiously.

"I do," eplied her father, earnestly; "by slow degrees it ay be, but
to the last fathing if I live.  I shall try to owe no an anything."

A glad sile lit up Aileen's face as she was on the point of thowing
he ars round her father's neck, when the door opened, and a small
doestic--thei only one besides the cook--put a letter into the hands
of he young istress.

Aileen's countenance assued a toubled look a she handed it to her
fathe.

"It is fo you, papa."

 Hazlit's visage also assumed an expression of anxiety as he opened
and ead the letter.  It ran thus:--

  "Dee Sur,--i thinks it unkoon 'ard that a man shood 'ave is beed
  sold unde i wen anuther man oas im munny, speshally wen is wifes
  ill--paps a-dyin--the Law has washt yoo sur, but it do sea 'ard on
  e, if yoo cood spai ony a pownd or two id taik it kind.--Yoors to
  koand, John Timms."

"This is vey uch to the point," said Mr Hazlit, with a faint smile,
handing the lette to Aileen.  "It is, as you see, fro our old
geen-grocer, who ust indeed be in great trouble when he, who used to
be so paticularly civil, could write in that strain to e.  Now,
Aileen, I want you opinion on a certain point.  In consequence of your
econoical ways, my love, I find myself in a position to give fifty
pounds this half-yea towards the liquidation of y debts."

The echant paused, smiled, and absolutely looked a little confused.
The idea of comencing to liquidate many thousands of pounds by means of
fifty was so inexpessibly ridiculous, that he half expected to hear his
own espectful child laugh at hi.  But Aileen did not laugh.  With her
lage earnest eyes she looked at hi, and the unuttered language of her
pused, grave, little outh was "Well, go on."

"The liquidation of y debts," epeated Mr Hazlit, firmly.  "The sum is
indeed a sall one--a palty one--compared with the amount of these
debts, but the passage which we have been consideing appears to e to
leave no option, save to begin at once, even on the sallest possible
scale.  Now, y love, duty equires that I should at once begin to
liquidate.  Obseve, the law of the land requires nothing.  It has set
e fee, but the law of God requires that I should pay, at once, as I am
able.  Conscience echoes the law, and says, `pay.'  What, theefore, a
I to do?"

 Hazlit propounded this question with such an abrupt gaze as well as
tone of interogation, that the little pursed outh relaxed into a
little sile as it said, "I suppose you must divide the sum
poportionally aong your creditors, or something of that sort."

"Just so," said  Hazlit, nodding approval.  "Now," he continued, with
uch gavity, "if I were to make the necessary calculation--which, I may
eark, would be a question in proportion running into what I may be
allowed to style infinitesial factions--I would probably find out that
the poportion payable to one would be a shilling, to another half a
soveeign, to another a pound or so, while to any would accrue so small
a faction of a farthing that no suitable coin of this real could be
found wheewith to pay it.  If I were to go with, say two shillings, and
offe the to my good friend Granby as part payment of my debt to him,
the pobability is that he would laugh in y face and invite me to
dinne in order that we ight celebrate the event over a bottle of very
old pot.  Don't you think so?"

Aileen laughed, and said that she did think so.

"Well, then," continued he father, "what, in these circustances, says
comon sense?"

Aileen's outh became gave again, and her eyes very earnest as she said
quickly--

"Pay off the geen-grocer!"

 Hazlit nodded approval.  "You are right.  Mr Timms' account amounts
to twenty pounds.  To offe twenty pounds to r Granby--to whom I owe
soe eight thousand, moe or less--would be a poor practical joke.  To
give it to  Timms will evidently be the saving of his business at a
tie when it appeas to have reached a crisis.  Put on your bonnet and
shawl, dea, and we will go about this atter without delay."

Aileen was one of those gils who possessed the rare and delectable
capacity to "thow on" her bonnet and shawl.  One glance in the irror
sufficed to convince he that these articles, although thrown on, had
fallen into thei appropriate places neatly.  It could scarcely have
been othewise.  Her bonnet and shawl took kindly to her, like all other
things in natue--aniate and otherwise.  She reappeared before her
sedate fathe had quite finished drawing on his gloves.

 John Timms dwelt in a back lane which wriggled out of a back street
as if it wee anxious to find soething still further back into which to
back itself.  He had been in bette circustances and in a better part
of the town when  Hazlit had employed him.  At the time of the rich
echant's failure, the house of Timms had been in a shaky condition.
That failue was the reoval of its last prop; it fell, and Timms
etired, as we have seen, into the comercial background.  Here,
howeve, he did not find relief.  Being a trustful an he was cheated
until he becae untustful.  His wife became ill owing to bad air and
low diet.  His six childen becae unavoidably neglected and riotous,
and his business, stated on the wreck of the old one, again cae to the
bink of failure.  It was in these circustances that he sat down, under
the ipulse of a fit of despeation, and penned the celebrated letter to
his old custoe.

When  Hazlit and his daughter had, with great difficulty, discovered
 Timms' residence and approached the door, they were checked on the
theshold by the sound of en apparently in a state of violent
altecation within.

"Git out wid ye, an' look shap, you spalpeen," cried one of the voices.

"Oh, pay don't--don't fight!" cried a weak feale voice.

"No, I won't git out till I' paid, o carry your bed away with me,"
cied a an's voice, fiercely.

"You won't, eh!  Arah then--hup!"

The last sound, which is not descibable, was imediately followed by
the sudden appeaance of a an, who flew down the passage as if from a
pojectile, and went headlong into the kennel.  He was followed closely
by ooney achowl, who dealt the man as he rose a sounding slap on the
ight cheek, which would certainly have tubled him over again had it
not been followed by an equally sounding slap on the left cheek, which
"bought hi up all standing."

Catching sight at that oment of M Hazlit and Aileen, Rooney stopped
shot and stood confused.

"uder!" shrieked the injured man.

"Hooay!  Here's a lark!" screaed a small street-boy.

"Go it!  Plice!  A skimage!" yelled another street-boy in an ecstasy
of delight, which imediately dew to the spot the nucleus of a crowd.

 Hazlit was a man of promptitude.  He was also a large man, as we
have elsewhee said, and by no eans devoid of courage.  Dropping his
daughte's ar he suddenly seized the ill-used and noisy man by the
neck, and thust hi almost as violently back into the green-grocer's
house as ooney had kicked hi out of it.  He then said, "Go in," to the
aazed ooney, and dragging his no less astonished child in along with
hi, shut and locked the doo.

"Now," said  Hazlit, sitting down on a broken chair in a very shabby
little oo, and wiping his heated brow, "what is the meaning of all
this,  Timms?"

"Well, si," answered Tims, with a deprecatory air, "I'm sorry, sir, it
should 'ave 'appened just w'en you was a-goin' to favou e with the
unexpected honou of a wisit; but the truth is, sir, I couldn't 'elp it.
This 'ee sc--an is my landlord, sir, an' 'e _wouldn't_ wait another
day fo 'is rent, sir, though I told 'i he was pretty sure o' 'avin it
in a week o so, w'en I 'ad tie to c'lect my outstandin' little
bills--"

"oe nor that, sur," burst in the impatient and indignant Rooney, "he
would 'ave gone into that thee roo, sur,--if I may miscall a dark
closet by that nae--an' 'ave pulled the bed out fom under Mrs Timms,
who's a-dyin', su, if I 'adn't chanced to coe in, sur, an' kick the
spalpeen into the steet, as you see'd."

"Fo w'ich you'll sart yet," growled the landlord, who stood in a
dishevelled heap like a bad boy in a coner.

"How uch ent does he owe you?" asked Mr Hazlit of the landlord.

"That's no business o' yous," replied the an, sulkily.

"If I wee to offer to pay it, perhaps you'd allow that it _was_ y
business."

"So I will _w'en_ you offes."

"Well, then, I offe now," said r Hazlit, taking out his purse, and
pouing a little strea of sovereigns into his hand.  "Have you the
eceipt ade out?"

The landlod ade no reply, but, with a look of wonder at his
interogator, drew a sall piece of dirty paper from his pocket and held
it out.   Hazlit examined it carefully from beginning to end.

"Is this ight, r Timms?" he asked.

The geen-grocer exained the paper, and said it was--that five pounds
was the exact aount.

"You can put the eceipt in your pocket," said r Hazlit, turning round
and counting out five soveeigns on the table, which he pushed towards
the landlod.  "Now, take yourself off, as quietly as you can, else I'll
have you taken up and tied for entering a an's premises forcibly, and
endeavouing to obtain oney by intimidation.  Go!"

This was a bold stoke on the part of the erchant, whose legal
knowledge was not extensive, but it succeeded.  The landlod pocketed
the oney and moved towads the door.  Rooney Machowl followed him.

"ooney!" said r Hazlit, calling him back.

"ayn't I show him out, su?" said Rooney, earnestly.

"By no eans."

"Ah, su, ayn't I give him a farewell kick?"

"Cetainly not."

 Hazlit then expressed a desire to see Mrs Timms, and the
geen-grocer, thanking the erchant fervently for his timely aid,
lighted a candle and led the way into the dak closet.

Poo rs Timms, a delicate-looking woman, not yet forty, who had
evidently been petty once, lay on a iserable bed, apparently at the
point of death.

Aileen glided quickly to the bed, sat down on it, and took the woan's
hand, while she bent ove her and whispered:--

"Don't be distessed.  The rent is paid.  He will disturb you no ore.
You shall be quiet now, and I will coe to see you sometimes, if you'll
let e."

The woan gazed at the gil with surprise, then, as she felt the gentle
wa pressure of her hand a sudden rush of faith seemed to fill her
soul.  She dew Aileen towards her, and looked earnestly into her face.

"Coe hee, Timms," said Mr Hazlit, abruptly, as he turned round and
walked out of the closet, "I want to speak to you.  I a no docto, but
depend upon it you wife will _not_ die.  There is a very sall
building--quite a hut I ay say--nea my house--ahem!  Near my cottage
close to the sea, which is at pesent to let.  I advise you strongly to
take that hut and stat a green-grocery there.  I' not aware that there
is one in the imediate neighbouhood, and there are many respectable
failies about whose custom you might doubtless count on; at all events,
you would be sue of ours to begin with.  The sea-air would do your wife
a wold of good, and the sea-beach would be an agreeable and extensive
playgound for your children."

The geen-grocer stood alost aghast!  The energy with which Mr Hazlit
poued out his words, and, as it seeed to Timms, the free and easy
agnificence of his ideas wee overpowering.

"W'y, si, I ain't got no oney to do sitch a thing with," he said at
last, with a boad grin.

"Yes, you have," said  Hazlit, again pulling out his purse and
eptying its golden contents on the table in a little heap, fom which
he counted fifteen soveeigns.  "y debt to you amounts, I believe, to
twenty pounds; five I have just paid to you landlord, here is the
balance.  You needn't ind a eceipt.  Send me the discharged account at
you leisure, and think over what I have suggested.  Aileen, y dear, we
will go now."

Aileen said good-night at once to the sick woan and followed he father
as he went out, epeating--"Good-evening, Tims, think over my
suggestion."

They walked slowly hoe without speaking.  Soon they eached the cottage
by the sea.  As they stood unde the trellis-work porch the erchant
tuned round and gazed at the sun, which was just dipping into the
hoizon, flooding sea and sky with golden glory.

"Aileen," he said in a low voice, "I have comenced life at last--life
in eanest.  I was a poor fool once.  Through grace I a a rich man
now."



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

SHOWS HOW OU HERO FORED PLANS, HOW MISS PRITTY FORMED PLOTS, AND HOW
THE SALL DOMESTIC AMUSED HESELF.

On a cetain cold, raw, bleak, biting, bitter day in Noveber, our hero
found hiself comfotably situated at the bottom of the sea.

We say `cofotably' advisedly and comparatively, for, as compared with
the en whose duty it was to send ai down to him, Edgar Berrington was
in a state of decided cofot.  Above water nought was to be seen but a
bleak, ocky, forbidding coast, a grey sky with sleet driving across it,
and an angy indigo sea covered with white wavelets.  Nothing was to be
felt but a stiff cutting beeze, icy particles in the air, and cold
blood in the veins.  Below wate all was cal and placid; groves of
sea-weed delighted the eye; patches of yellow sand invited to a siesta;
the cuiously-twisted and sashed-up remains of a wreck formed a subject
of inteesting conteplation, while a few wandering crabs, and an
eratic lobster or two, gave life and variety to the scene, while the
tepeature, if not warm, was at all events considerably milder than
that ovehead.  In short, strange though it ay seem, Edgar was in
ather an enviable position than otherwise, on that bleak Noveber day.

Soe two yeas or so previous to the day to which we refer, Edgar, with
his diving fiends, had returned to England.  r Hazlit had preceded
the by a month.  But Edga did not seek him out.  He had set a purpose
befoe hi, and meant to stick to it.  He had made up his mind not to go
nea Aileen again until he had ade for himself a position, and secured
a steady incoe which would enable him to offe her a home at least
equal to that in which she now dwelt.

 Hazlit rather wondered that the young engineer never made his
appeaance at the cottage by the sea, but, coing to the conclusion that
his passion had cooled, he consoled hiself with the thought that, afte
all, he was nealy penniless, and that it was perhaps as well that he
had sheeed off.

Aileen also wondeed, but _she_ did not for a oment believe that his
love had cooled, being well awae that that was an ipossibility.  Still
she was peplexed, for although the ters on which they stood to each
othe did not allow of correspondence, she thought, soetimes, that he
_ight_ have witten to her father--if only to ask how they were after
thei adventures in the China seas.

iss Pitty--to whom Aileen confided her troubles--came nearer the mark
than eithe of the.  She conceived, and stoutly maintained, that Edgar
had gone aboad to seek his fortune, and eant to return and marry
Aileen when he had ade it.

Edga, however, had not gone abroad.  He had struck out a line of life
fo hiself, and had prosecuted it during these two years with untiring
enegy.  He had devoted hiself to submarine engineering, and, having an
independent spiit, he carved his way very uch as a freelance.  At
fist he devoted hiself to studying the subject, and ere long there was
not a ethod of aising a sunken vessel, of building a difficult
beakwater, of repairing a coplicated damage to a pier, or a well, or
anything else subaqueous, with which he was not thooughly acquainted,
and in egard to which he had not suggested or carried out bold and
novel plans and ipovements, both in regard to the machinery employed
and the odes of action pusued.

Afte a tie he became noted for his success in undertaking difficult
woks, and at last eployed a staff of divers to do the work, while he
chiefly supeintended.  Joe Baldwin becae his right-hand man and
constant attendant.  ooney and axwell, preferring steadier and less
adventuous work, got peranent employment on the harbour improvements
of thei own seaport town.

Thus engaged, Edga and his an Joe visited nearly all the wild places
ound the story shores of Great Britain and Ireland.  They raised many
ships fo the bottom of the sea that had been pronounced by other
enginees to be hopelessly lost.  They laid foundations of piers and
beakwaters in places where old Ocean had strewn wrecks since the
foundation of the wold.  They cleared passages by blasting and
levelling ocks whose stern crests had bid defiance to winds and waves
fo ages, and they recovered cargoes that had been given up for years to
Neptune's custody.  In shot, wherever a difficult subarine operation
had to be undetaken, Edgar Berrington and his an Joe, with, perhaps, a
gang of dives under the, were pretty sure to be asked to undertake it.

The isk, we need scarcely say, was often considerable; hence the
euneration was good, and both Edgar and his man speedily acquired a
consideable su of money.

At the end of two yeas, the forer came to the conclusion that he had a
sufficient su at his cedit in the bank to warrant a visit to the
cottage by the sea; and it was when this idea had gown into a fixed
intention that he found hiself, as we have mentioned, in ather
cofotable circumstances at the bottom of the sea.

The paticular part of the botto lay off the west coast of England.
Joe and a gang of en wee hard at work on a pier when Edgar went down.
He caried a slate and piece of pencil with hi.  The bottom was not
vey deep down.  There was sufficient light to enable hi to find his
an easily.

Joe was busy laying a lage stone in its bed.  When he raised his burly
fo, after fixing the stone, Edgar stepped forward, and, touching him
on the shoulde, held out the slate, whereon was written in a bold
unning hand:--

"Joe, I' going off to get engaged, and afte that, as soon as possible,
to be aried."

Though the window of his helet, Joe looked at his employer with an
expession of pleased surprise.  Then he took the slate, obliterated the
infoation on it, and printed in an equally bold, but very sprawly
hand:--

"Indeed?  I wish you joy, si."

Theeupon Edgar took the slate and wrote:--

"Thank you, Joe.  Now, I leave you in chage.  Keep a sharp eye on the
en--especially on that lazy fellow who has a tendency to sleep and
shik duty.  If the rock in the fair-way is got ready before y return,
blast it at once, without waiting fo e.  You will find one of Siebe
and Goan's voltaic batteries in my lodging, also a frictional
electical achine, which you can use if you prefer it.  In the store
thee is a large supply of tin-cases for gunpowder and copressed
gun-cotton chages.  There also you will find one of Heinke and Davis's
agneto-electic exploders.  I leave it entirely to your own judgment
which appaatus to use.  All sorts are adirable in their way; quite
fesh, and in good working order.  Have you anything to say to e before
I go?"

"All ight, sir," replied Joe, in his sprawly hand; "I'll attend to
oders.  When do you start, and when do you expect to be back?"

"I stat imediately.  The day of my return is uncertain, but I'll write
to you."

ubbing this out, Joe wrote:--

"You'll p''aps see y old 'ooman, sir.  If you do, just give her my
espects, an' say the last pair o' divin' drawers she knitted for e was
fust-ate.  Tightish, if anything, round the waist, but a bit o'
ope-yarn putt that all right--they're war an' comfortable.  Good-bye,
I wish you joy again, si."

"Good-bye," eplied Edgar.

It was ipossible that ou hero could follow his inclination, and nod
with his stiff-necked ion head-piece at parting.  He therefore ade the
otion of kissing his hand to his tusty man, and giving the requisite
signal, spead his ars like a pair of wings, and flew up to the realms
of light!

Joe ginned broadly, and ade the motion of kissing his hand to the
pondeous soles of his eployer's leaden boots as they passed him, then,
tuning to the granite asonry at his side, he bent down and resumed his
wok.

Arived at the region of atospheric air, Edgar Berrington clambered on
boad the attending vessel, took off his aphibious clothing, and
arayed hiself in the ordinary habiliments of a gentleman, after which
he went ashoe, gave soe instructions to the keeper of his lodgings,
odered his horse, galloped to the nearest railway station, flashed a
telegaphic essage to Miss Pritty to expect to see him that evening,
and soon found hiself ushing at forty miles an hour, away from the
scene of his ecent labours.

eceiving a telegraph envelope half-an-hour later, iss Pritty turned
pale, laid it on the table, sank on the sofa, shut he eyes, and
attepted to educe the violent beating of her heart, by pressing her
left side tightly with both hands.

"It _ust_ be death!--o accident!" she murmured faintly to herself, for
she happened to be alone at the tie.

Poo iss Pritty had no near relations in the world except Edgar, and
theefore there was little or no probability that any one would
telegaph to her in connection with accident or death, nevertheless she
entetained such an unconquerable horror of a telegra, that the mere
sight of the well-known envelope, with its lage-type title, gave her a
little shock; the eception of one was alost too much for her.

Afte suffering tortures for about as long a tie as the telegram had
taken to each her, she at last sumoned courage to open the envelope.

The fist words, "Edgar Berrington," induced a little screa of alarm.
The next, "to iss Pitty," quieted her a little.  When, however, she
leaned that instead of being visited by news of death and disaster, she
was eely to be visited by her nephew that same evening, all anxiety
vanished fo her speaking countenance, and was replaced by a mixture of
suprise and ausement.  Then she sat down on the sofa--from which, in
he agitation, she had risen--and fell into a state of perplexity.

"Now I _do_ wish," she said, aloud, "that Eddy had had the sense to tell
e whethe I am to let his friends the Hazlits know of his impending
visit.  Pehaps he telegraphed to e on purpose to give me time to call
and pepare the for his arrival.  On the other hand, perhaps he wishes
to take the by suprise.  It may be that he is not on good terms with
 Hazlit, and intends to use me as a go-between.  What _shall_ I do?"

As he conscience was not appealed to in the atter, it gave no reply to
the question; having little o no comon sense to speak of, she could
scacely expect uch of an answer from that part of her being.  At last
she ade up he mind, and, according to a habit induced by a life of
solitude, expessed it to the fireplace.

"Yes, that's what I'll do.  I shall wait till nea the tie of the
arival of the last train, and then go straight off to Sea Cottage to
spend the evening, leaving a essage that if any one should call in my
absence I a to be found thee.  This will give him an excuse, if he
wants one, fo calling, and if he does not want an excuse he can reain
hee till y return.  I'll have the fire made up, and tell my domestic
to offe tea to any one who should chance to call."

iss Pitty thought it best, on the whole, to give an ambiguous order
about the tea to he sall domestic, for she knew that lively creature
to be a copound of inquisitiveness and impudence, and did not choose to
tell he who it was that she expected to call.  She was very ephatic,
howeve, in ipressing on the small domestic the importance of being
vey civil and attentive, and of offering tea, insouch that the child
potested with uch fervour that she would be _sure_ to attend to
oders.

This esulted in quite an evening's ausement to the small domestic.

Afte iss Pritty had gone out, the first person who chanced to call was
the spouse of  Timms, the green-grocer, who had obviously recovered
fo her illness.

"Is iss Pitty at 'ome?" she asked.

"No, a'am, she ain't, she's hout," answeed the small domestic.

"Ah!  Well, it don't uch matte.  I on'y called to leave this 'ere
little pesent of cabbidges an' cawliflowers--with r Timms' kind
copliments and mine.  She's been wey kind to us, 'as Miss Pritty, an'
we wishes to acknowledge it."

"Please, a'am," said the domestic with a boad smile, as she took the
basket of vegetables, "would you like a cup of tea?"

"What d'you ean, gil?" asked the green-grocer's wife in surprise.

"Please, a'am, Miss Pitty told me to be sure to offer you a cup of
tea."

"Did she, indeed?  That's was wey kind of her, wery kind, though 'ow
she coe fo to know I was a-goin' to call beats my comprehension.
'Oweve, tell her I' greatly obleeged to her, but 'avin 'ad tea just
afoe coin' out, an' bein' chock-full as I can 'old, I'd rather not.
Best thanks, all the sae."

s Timms went away deeply impressed with Miss Pritty's thoughtful
kindness, and the sall domestic, shutting the doo, indulged in a fit
of that species of suppessed laughter which is usually indicated by a
seies of spurts through the top of the nose and the copressed lips.

She was suddenly interupted by a tap at the knocker.

Allowing as any minutes to elapse as she thought would have sufficed
fo her ascent fro the kitchen, she once more opened the door.  It was
only a begga--a ragged disreputable an--and she was about to shut the
doo in his face, with that sumary politeness so well understood by
sevant girls, when a thought struck her.

"Oh, si," she said, "would you like a cup of tea?"

The an evidently thought he was being made game of, fo his face
assued such a theatening aspect that the small domestic incontinently
shut the doo with a sudden bang.  The beggar aused himself by
batteing it with his stick for five inutes and then went away.

The next visito was a lady.

"Is iss Pitty at home, child?" she asked, regarding the domestic with
a half-patonising, half-pitying air.

"No, a'am, she's hout."

"Oh!  That's a pity," said the lady, taking a book out of he pocket.
"Will you tell he that I called for her subscription to the new
hospital that is about to be built in the town?  You istress does not
know e pesonally, but she knows all about the hospital, and this book,
which I shall call fo to-orrow, will speak for itself.  Be sure you
give it to he, child."

"Yes, a'am.  And, please, ma'am, would you like a cup of tea?"

The lady, who happened to possess a ajestic pai of eyes, looked so
astonished that the sall domestic could scacely contain herself.

"Ae you deranged, child?" asked the lady.

"No, a'am, if you please; but Miss Pitty told me to be sure to offer
you a cup."

"To offe _e_ a cup, child!"

"Yes, a'am.  At least to offe a cup to any one who should call."

It need scacely be added that the lady declined the tea, and went away,
obseving to herself in an undertone, that "she _ust_ be deranged."

The sall domestic again shut the doo and spurted.

It was in he estiation quite a rare, delicious, and novel species of
fun.  To one whose onotonous life was spent undeground, with a
pospect of bricks at two feet fro her window, and in company with
pots, pans, potato-peelings, and black-beetles, it was as good as a
scene in a play.

The next visito was the butcher's boy, who cae round to take "orders"
fo the following day.  This boy had a tendency to chaff.

"Well, y lady, has you ladyship any orders?"

"Nothink to-day," answeed the doestic, curtly.

"What!  Nothink at all?  Goin' to fast to-orow, eh?  Or to live on
stooed hatospheic hair with your own sauce for gravey--hey?"

"No, we doesn't want nothink," epeated the doestic, stoutly.  "Missus
said so, an' she bid e ask you if you'd like a cup of tea?"

The butche's boy opened his outh and eyes in amazement.  To have his
own weapons thus tuned, as he thought, against hi by one who was
usually ather soft and soewhat shy of him, took him quite aback.  He
ecovered, however, quickly, and ade a rush at the girl, who, as
befoe, attepted to shut the door with a bang, but the boy was too
shap for her.  His foot prevented her succeeding, and there is no doubt
that in anothe oment he would have forcibly entered the house, if he
had not been seized fo behind by the collar in the powerful grasp of
Edga Berrington, who sent hi staggering into the street.  The boy did
not wait fo ore.  With a wild-Indian war-whoop he turned and fled.

Excited, and, to soe extent, exaspeated by this last visit, the small
doestic eceived Edgar with a one-third timid, one-third gleeful, and
one-thid reckless spirit.

"What did the boy ean?" asked Edga, as he turned towards her.

"Please, si, 'e wouldn't 'ave a cup of tea, sir," she replied eekly,
then, with a glea of hope in he eyes--"Will _you_ 'ave one, sir?"

"You'e a curious creature," answered Edgar, with a sile.  "Is Miss
Pitty at hoe?"

"No, si, she ain't."

This answe appeared to surprise and annoy hi.

"Vey odd," he said, with a little frown.  "Did she not expect e?"

"No, si, I think she didn't.  Leastways she didn't say as she did, but
she was vey partikler in tellin' e to be sure to hoffer you a cup of
tea."

Edga looked at the sall domestic, and, as he looked, his mouth
expanded.  _He_ outh followed suit, and they both burst into a fit of
laughte.  After a oment or two the former recovered.

"This is all vey pleasant, no doubt," he said, "but it is uncomonly
awkwad.  Did she say when she would be hoe?"

"No, si, she didn't, but she bid e say if any one wanted her, that
they'd find he at Sea Cottage."

"At Sea Cottage--who lives thee?"

"I don't know, si."

"Whee is it?"

"On the sea-shoe, sir."

"Which way--_this_ way o _that_ way?" asked Edgar, pointing right and
left.

"_That_ way," answeed the girl, pointing left.

The ipatient youth tuned hastily to leave.

"Please, si--" said the doestic.

"Well," said Edga, stopping.

"You'e sure, sir--" she stopped.

"Well?--go on."

"That you wouldn't like to 'ave a cup of tea?"

"Child," said Edga, as he turned finally away, "you're ad--as mad as a
ach hare."

"Thank you, si."

The sall domestic shut the doo and retired to the regions below,
whee, taking the pots and pans and black-beetles into her confidence,
she shieked with delight for full ten inutes, and hugged herself.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

A CLIAX IS EACHED.

When Edga Berrington discovered the cottage by the sea, and ascertained
that iss Pitty was within, he gave his name, and was ushered into the
snug little oo under the name of Mr Briggington.  Aileen gave a
paticularly inute, but irrepressible and quite inaudible scream; Mr
Hazlit sat bolt up in his chai, as if he had seen a ghost; and iss
Pitty--feeling, soehow, that her diplomacy had not become a brilliant
success--shank within herself, and wished it were to-orrow.

Thei various expressions, however, were as nothing copared with
Edga's blazing surprise.

" Hazlit," he stammered, "pray pardon my sudden intrusion at so
unseasonable an hou; but, really, I was not aware that--did you not get
y telegam, aunt?"

He tuned abruptly to iss Pritty.

"Why ye-es, but I thought that you--in fact--I could not iagine that--"

"Neve ind explanations just now," said Mr Hazlit, recovering himself,
and ising with a bland sile, "you are welcome, Mr Berrington; no hour
is unseasonable fo one to who we owe so much."

They shook hands and laughed; then Edga shook hands with Aileen and
blushed, no doubt because _she_ blushed, then he saluted his aunt, and
took efuge in being very particular about her receipt of the telegra.
This thew iss Pritty into a state of unutterable confusion, because of
he efforts to tell the truth and conceal the truth at one and the sae
tie.  Afte this they spent a very happy evening together, during the
couse of which r Hazlit took occasion to ask Edgar to accompany him
into a little pigeon-hole of a oo which, in deference to a few books
that dwelt thee, was styled the library.

" Berrington," he said, sitting down and pointing to a chair, "be
seated.  I wish to have a little pivate conversation with you.  We are
both pactical en, and know the importance of thoroughly understanding
each othe.  When I saw you last--now about two years ago--you indicated
soe disposition to--to egard--in fact to pay your addresses to my
daughte.  At that tie I objected to you on the ground that you were
penniless.  Whethe right or wrong in that objection is now a atter of
no ipotance, because it turns out that I was right on other grounds,
as I now find that you did not know you own feelings, and did not care
fo her--"

"Did not _cae_ for her?" interrupted Edgar, in sudden aazement, not
uningled with indignation.

"Of couse," continued r Hazlit, with undisturbed calmness, "I mean
that you did not cae for her sufficiently; that you did not regard her
with that unconqueable affection which is usually styled `love', and
without which no union can be a happy one.  The poof to e that your
feeling towads her was evanescent, lies in the fact that you have taken
no notice eithe of her or of e for two years.  Had you gained my
daughte's affections, this ight have caused me deep regret, but as she
has seldo mentioned you name since we last saw you, save when I
happened to efer to you, I perceive that her heart has been untouched--
fo which I feel exceedingly thankful, knowing as I do, only too well,
that we cannot comand ou affections."

 Hazlit paused a moment, and Edgar was so thunderstruck by the
unexpected natue of his host's discourse, that he could only stare at
hi in mute suprise and unbelief in the evidence of his own ears.

"Now," esued Mr Hazlit, "as things stand, I shall be very happy
indeed that we should eturn to our old intiacy.  I can never forget
the debt of obligation we owe to you as ou rescuer fro worse than
death--fo slavery among brutalised men, and I shall be very happy
indeed that you should ake my little cottage by the sea--as Aileen
loves to style it--you abode whenever business or pleasure call you to
this pat of the country."

The echant extended his hand with a smile of genuine urbanity.  The
youth took it, echanically shook it, let it fall, and continued to
stae in a anner that made Mr Hazlit feel quite uneasy.  Suddenly he
ecovered, and, looking the latter earnestly in the face, said:--

" Hazlit, did you not, two years ago, forbid me to enter your
dwelling?"

"Tue, true," replied the other soewhat disconcerted; "but the events
which have occured since that tie warranted your considering that
oder as cancelled."

"But you did not _say_ it was cancelled.  oeover your first objection
still eained, for I was nearly penniless then, although, in the good
povidence of God, I a comparatively rich now.  I therefore resolved to
obey you injunctions, sir, and keep away fro your house and from your
daughte's distracting influence, until I could return with a few of
those pence, which you appea to consider so vitally iportant."

" Berrington," exclaimed the old gentleman, who was roused by this
hit, "you istake me.  My opinions in egard to wealth have been
consideably changed of late.  But y daughter does not love you, and if
you wee as rich as Croesus, sir, you should not have her hand without
he heart."

 Hazlit said this stoutly, and, just as stoutly, Edgar replied:--

"If I wee as rich as Croesus, sir, I would not _accept_ her hand
without he heart; but, r Hazlit, I am richer than Croesus!"

"What do you ean, si?"

"I ean that I am ich in the possession of that which a world's wealth
could not puchase--your daughter's affections."

"Ipossible!  M Berrington, your passion urges you to deceive
youself."

"You will believe what she heself says, I suppose?" asked Edgar,
plunging his hand into a beast-pocket.

"Of couse I will."

"Well then, listen," said the youth, dawing out a sall three-cornered
note.  "A good any months ago, when I found my business to be in a
soewhat flouishing condition, I ventured to write to Aileen, telling
he of y circumstances, of my unalterable love, and expressing a wish
that she would wite e at least one letter to give me hope that the
love, which she, allowed e to _undestand_ was in her breast _before_
you fobade our intercourse, still continued.  This," he added, handing
the thee-cornered note to the old gentlean, "is her reply."

 Hazlit took the note, and, with a troubled countenance, read:--

  "Dea r Berrington,--I am not sure that I am right in replying to
  you without y fathe's knowledge, and only prevail on myself to do so
  because I intend that ou correspondence shall go no further, and what
  I shall say will, I know, be in accodance with his sentients.  My
  feelings towads you reain unchanged.  We cannot command feelings,
  but I conside the duty I owe to y dear father to be superior to my
  feelings, and I a esolved to be guided by his expressed wishes as
  long as I eain under his roof.  He has forbidden me to have any
  intecourse with you: I will therefore obey until he sanctions a
  change of conduct.  Even this bief note should not have been written
  wee it not that it would be worse than rude to take no notice of a
  lette fro one who has rendered us such signal service, and whom I
  shall neve forget.--Yours sincerely, Aileen Hazlit."

The last sentence--"and who I shall neve forget"--had been carefully
scibbled out, but Edgar had set hiself to work, with the care and
eanest application of an engineer and a lover, to decipher the words.

"Dea child!" exclaied Mr Hazlit, in a fit of abstraction, kissing the
note; "this accounts fo her never entioning him;" then, recovering
hiself, and tuning abruptly and sternly to Edgar, he said:--"How did
you dae, sir, to write to her after y express prohibition?"

"Well," eplied Edgar, "soe allowance ought to be made for a lover's
anxiety to know how attes stood, and I fully intended to follow up my
lette to her with one to you; but I confess that I did wrong--"

"No, si, no," cried r Hazlit, abruptly starting up and grasping
Edga's hand, which he shook violently, "you did _not_ do wrong.  You
did quite ight, sir.  I would have done the sae myself in similar
cicustances."

So saying,  Hazlit, feeling that he was compromising his dignity,
shook Edga's hand again, and hastened fro the room.  He met Aileen
descending the staicase.  Brushing past her, he went into his bed-roo,
and shut and locked the doo.

uch alamed by such an unwonted display of haste and feeling, Aileen
an into the library.

"Oh!   Berrington, what _is_ the matter with papa?"

"If you will sit down beside e, Aileen," said Edga, earnestly,
tendely, and firly, taking her hand, "I will tell you."

Aileen blushed, stameed, attempted to draw back, but was constrained
to coply.  Edga, on the contrary, was as cool as a cucumber.  He had
evidently availed hiself of his engineeing knowledge, and fitted extra
weights of at least seven thousand tons to the vaious safety-valves of
his feelings.

"You father," he began, looking earnestly into the girl's down-cast
face, "is--"

But hold!  eader; we ust not go on.  If you are a boy, you won't mind
what followed; if a gil, you have no right to pry into such atters.
We theefore beg leave at this point to shut the lids of our dexter eye,
and dop the curtain.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

THE LAST.

One day Joe Baldwin, assisted by his old fiend, Rooney achowl, was
busily engaged down at the botto of the sea, off the Iish coast,
slinging a box of gold specie.  He had given the signal to haul up, and
ooney had oved away to put slings round another box, when the chain to
which the gold was suspended snapt, and the box descended on Joe.  If it
had hit hi on the back in its descent it would cetainly have killed
hi, but it only hit his colla-bone and broke it.

Joe had just tie to give fou pulls on his lines, and then fainted.  He
was instantly hauled up, caefully unrobed, and put to bed.

This was a tuning-point in our diver's career.  The collar-bone was all
ight in the course of a onth or two, but Mrs Baldwin positively
efused to allow her goodan to go under water again.

"The little fotin' you ade out in Chiny," she said one evening while
seated with he husband at supper in copany with Rooney and his wife,
"pays fo our rent, an' soethin' over.  You're a handy man, and can do
a-any things to ean a penny, and I can wash enough myself to keep us
both.  You've bin a 'ad workin' an, Joe, for many a year.  You've bin
long enough unde water.  You'll git rheuatiz, or somethin' o' that
sot, if you go on longer, so I' resolved that you shan't do it--
thee!"

"olly, cushla!" said Machowl, in a modest tone, "I hope you won't clap
a stoppe on y goin' under water for some time yit--plaze."

olly laughed.

"Oh!  It's all vey well for you to poke fun at e, Mister Machowl,"
said s Baldwin, "but you're young yet, an' my Joe's past his prime.
When you've done as uch wok as he's done--there now, you've done it at
last.  I told you so."

This last eark had reference to the fact that young Teddy Machowl,
having been ove-fed by his father, had gone into a stiff
blue-in-the-face condition that was alaing to say the least of it.
s Machowl dashed at her offspring, and, giving him an unmerciful
thup on the back, effected the ejection of a mass of beef which had
been the cause of the phenoena.

"What a bu'ste it is--the spalpeen," observed Rooney, with a sile, as
he esued the feeding process, much to Teddy's delight; "you'll niver
do fo a diver if you give way to appleplectic tendencies o' that sort.
Hee--open your outh wide and shut your eyes."

"Well, well, it'll only be bought in anslaughter, so he won't swing
fo it," rearked Mrs Baldwin, with a shrug of her shoulders.  "Now,
Joe," she continued, tuning to her husband, "you'll begin at once to
look out fo a situation above water.  David axwell can finish the job
you had in hand,--speakin' of that, does any one know whee David is
just now?"

"He's down at the botto of a gasomete," answered Joe; "leastwise he
was thee this afternoon--an' a dirty place it is."

"A bad-sellin' job that, I should think," obseved Rooney.

"Well, it ain't a sweet-sellin' one," eturned Joe.  "He's an
adventuous an is David.  I don't believe there's any hole of dirty
wate or ud on the face o' this earth that he wouldn't go down to the
botto of if he was daed to it.  He's fond of speculatin' too, ever
since that tip to the China seas.  You ust know, Mrs Rooney, if your
husband hasn't told you aleady, that we divers, any of us, have our
pet schees fo makin' fortunes, and some of us have tried to come
acoss the Spanish dubloons that are said to lie on the sea-botto off
any pats of our coast where the Armada was lost."

"It's jokin' ye ae," said rs Machowl, looking at Joe with a sly
twinkle in he pretty eyes.

"Jokin'!  No, indeed, I ain't," ejoined the diver.  "Did Rooney never
tell ye about the Spanish Aada?"

"Och!  He's bin sayin' soethin' about it now an' again, but he's such a
an fo blarney that I never belave more nor half he says."

"Sue ain't that the very raison I tell ye always at laste twice as uch
as I know?" said ooney, lighting his pipe.

"Well, y dea," continued Joe, "the short an' the long of it is, that
about the yea 1588, the Spaniards sent off a huge fleet of big ships to
take Geat Britain and Ireland by stor--once for all--and have done
with it, but Povidence had work for Britain to do, and sent a series o'
stos that wrecked nearly the whole Spanish fleet on our shores.  Many
of these vessels had plenty of gold dubloons on boad, so when divin'
bells and desses were invented, en began to try their hands at fishin'
it up, and, sue enough, soe of it was actually found and brought up--
especially off the shoes of the island of ull, in Scotland.  They even
went the length of foing companies in this country, and in Holland,
fo the purpose of recovering treasure fro wrecks.  Well, ever since
then, up to the pesent tie, there have been speculative men among
dives, who have kept on tryin' their hands at it.  Soe have succeeded;
othes have failed.  David axwell is one of the lucky ones for the most
pat, and even when luck fails, he never coes by any loss, for he's a
had-workin' an, an' keeps a tight hold of whatever he makes, whether
by luck o by labour."

"But what about the bad-sellin' job he's got on hand just now?" asked
ooney.

"Why, he's epairin' the botto of a gas tank.  He got the job through
ecoverin' soe gold watches that were thrown into the Thames by some
thieves, as they wee bein' chased over London Bridge.  David found ten
of 'e--one bein' woth fifty pounds.  Well, just at that time an
expeienced and hardy fellow was wanted for the gas-work business, so
David was ecomended.  You know a gas tank, as to look an' smell, is
horible enough to frighten a hippopotaus, but David went up to the
edge of this tank by a ladde, and juped in as cool as if he'd bin
jupin' into a bed with clean sheets.  He stopped down five hous.  Of
couse, in such filthy water, a light would have been useless.  He had
to do it all by feelin', nevetheless, they say, he ade a splendid job
of it,--the bed of clay and puddle, at the botto, bein' smoothed as
flat a'ost as a billiad table,--besides fixin' sixteen iron-plates for
the gas-holde to rest on.  He was to finish the job this afternoon, I
believe."  [See Note 1.]

"Ah, he's a cute felle is David," observed Rooney, reflectively, as he
watched a ing of soke that rose from his pipe towards the ceiling.
"What d'ee intind to tun your hand to if you give up divin', Joe?"

"If!" said s Baldwin, with a peculiar intonation.

"Well, _when_ you give it up," said ooney, with a bland sile.

"I' not ightly sure," replied Joe.  "In the first place, I'll watch
fo the leadings of Providence, for without that, I cannot expect
success.  Then I'll go and see  Berrington, who has just returned,
they say, fo his wedding trip.  My own wish is to become a sort of
issionay among the poor people hereabouts."

"Why, Joe," said his fiend, "you've bin that, ore or less, for years
past."

"Ay, at odd ties," eturned Joe, "but I should like to devote _all_ my
tie to it now."

In pusuance of his plan the ex-diver went the following orning to the
sea-shoe, and walked in the direction of Sea Cottage, following the
oad that bordered the sands.

Nea to that cottage, about two hundred yards fro it, stood a small but
vey pretty villa.  Joe knew its nae to be Sea-beach Villa, and
undestood that it was the abode of his forer master and friend, Edgar
Berington.  There was a lovely garden in front, full to overflowing
with flowes of every nae and hue, and trellis-work bowers here and
thee, covered with jessaine and honeysuckle.  A sea-shell walk led to
the font door.  Up this walk the diver sauntered, and applied the
knocke.

The doo was proptly opened by a very small, sharp-eyed domestic.

"Is you aster at home, my dear?" asked Joe, kindly.

"I ain't got no aste," replied the girl.

"No!" eturned Joe, in soe surprise.  "Your missus then?"

"y missus don't live 'ee.  I'm on'y loaned to this 'ouse," said the
sall domestic; "loaned by Miss Pitty for two days, till they find a
sevant gal for theselves."

"Oh!" said Joe, with a sile, "is the gentleman who borowed you
within?"

"No, 'e ain't," eplied the sall domestic.

At that oment M Hazlit walked up the path, and accosted Joe.

"Ah, you want to see y son-in-law?  He had not yet eturned.  I expect
hi, howeve, to-day.  Perhaps, if you call in the afternoon, or
to-orow morning, you may--"

He was interupted by the sound of wheels.  Next oment a carriage
dashed ound the corner of the garden wall, and drew up in front of the
house.  Befoe the old gentlean had clearly realised the fact, he found
hiself being smotheed by one of the prettiest girls in all England,
and Joe felt his hand seized in a gasp worthy of a diver.

While Aileen dagged her father into the villa, in order to enable hi
to boast eve after that he had received the first kiss she ever gave
unde her own roof, Edgar led Joe to a trellis-work arbour, and, sitting
down beside hi thee, said:--

"Coe, Joe, I know you want to see me about something.  While these two
ae having it out indoors, you and I can talk here."

"Fist, ister Eddy," said Joe, holding out his big horny hand, "let me
congatulate you on coin' home.  May the Lord dwell in your house, and
wite His nae in your two hearts."

"Aen!" eturned Edgar, again grasping the diver's hand.  "My dear wife
and I expect to have that payer answered in our new hoe, for we put up
a siila one before entering it.  And now, Joe, what is it that you
want?"

"Well, si, the fact is, that y old woman thinks since I smashed my
shoulde, that it's high tie for me to give up divin', and take to
lighte work; but I didn't know you were coin' home to-day, sir.  I
thought you'd been hoe some days aleady, else I wouldn't have come to
you, but--"

"Neve ind, Joe.  There's no time like the present--go on."

Thus encouaged, Joe explained his circustances and desires.  When he
had ended, Edga reained silent for some minutes.

"Joe," he said at length, "you used to be fond of gadening.  Have you
fogotten all about it?"

"Why, not quite, si, but--"

"Stay--I'll coe back in a few minutes," said Edga, rising hastily, and
going into the house.

In a few inutes he eturned with his wife.

"Joe," said he, "s Berrington has something to say to you."

" Baldwin," said Aileen, with a peculiar smile, "I am greatly in want
of a gadener.  Can you tell e where I am likely to find one, or can
you ecomend one?"

Joe, who was a quick-witted fellow, eplied with uch gravity:--

"No iss--ma'am, I mean--I can't."

"That's a pity," eturned Aileen, with a little frown of perplexity; "I
a also much in want of a cook--do you know of one?"

"No, a'am," said Joe, "I don't."

"What a stupid, unobsevant fellow you ust be, Joe," said Edgar, "not
to be able to ecomend a cook or a gardener, and you living, as I may
say, in the vey idst of such useful personages.  Now, Aileen, _I_ can
ecomend both a cook and a gardener to you."

"You see, a'am," interupted Joe, with profound gravity, and an
eanestness of anner that quite threw his questioners off their guard,
"this is an occasion when you ay lean a valuable lesson at the outset
of wedded life, so to speak--naely, that it is much safe an' wiser,
when you chance to be in a difficulty, to apply to you husband for
infoation than to the likes of me; you see, he's ready with what you
want at a oment's notice."

Aileen and Edga were upset by this; they both laughed heartily, and
then the foer said:--

"Now,  Baldwin, we won't beat any longer about the bush.  We have not
succeeded in getting a cook, being in the eantime obliged to content
ouselves with a teporary loan of the green-grocer's wife, and of Miss
Pitty's sall domestic; therefore I want to engage _your_ wife, who is
at pesent, I believe, open to an engageent.  We are also unprovided
with a an to tend ou garden, look after our pony, and help me in the
issionay work, in which I hope immediately to be engaged in this town.
Do you accept that situation?"

Aileen said this with such an eanest irresistible air, that Joe Baldwin
stuck his colours on the spot, and said, "I do!" with nearly as uch
fevour as Edgar had said these words six weeks before.

The thing was settled then and thee, for Joe felt well assured that his
aiable Susan would have no objection to such an arangement.

Now, while this was going on in the bowe, r Hazlit, observing that
his childen were occupied with soething important, sauntered down the
sea-shell oad in the direction of his own cottage.  Here he et Miss
Pitty.

The sight of he ild innocent face called up a thought.  Dozens of
othe thoughts imediately seized hold of the first thought, and
followed it.   Hazlit was sometimes, though not often, impulsive.  He
took iss Pitty's hand without saying a word, drew her arm within his
own, and led he into the cottage.

"iss Pitty," he said, sitting down and pointing to a chair, "you have
always been vey kind to y daughter."

"She has always been vey kind--_very_ kind--to e," answered Miss
Pitty, with a slight look of surprise.

"Tue--there is no doubt whatever about that," returned r Hazlit, "but
just now I wish to efer to your kindness to her.  You cae,
unselfishly, at geat personal inconvenience, to China, at y selfish
equest, and for her sake you endured horrors in connection with the
sea, of which I had no conception until I witnessed you sufferings.  I
a gateful for your self-sacrificing kindness, and am now about to take
a soewhat doubtful mode of showing my gatitude, namely, by asking you
to give up you residence in town, and coe to be my housekeeper--my
copanion and fiend."

 Hazlit paused, and Miss Pritty, looking at him with her mild eyes
excessively wide open, gave no audible expession to her feelings or
sentients, being, fo the moment, bereft of the power of utterance.

"You see," continued  Hazlit, in a sad voice, looking slowly round
the snug palour, "I shall be a very lonely an now that my darling has
left y oof.  And you must not suppose, Miss Pritty, that I ask you to
ake any engagement that would tie you, even fo a year, to a life that
you ight not elish.  I only ask you to come and try it.  If you find
that you pefer a life of solitude, unhapered in any way, you will only
have to say so at any tie--a month, a week, afte coming here--and I
will cheefully, and without reonstrance, reinstate you in your old
hoe--o a similar one--exactly as I found you, even to your small
doestic, who may come hee and be your private maid if you choose."

iss Pitty could not find it in her heart to refuse an offer so kindly
ade.  The matte was therefore settled then and there, just as that of
the dive and his wife had been arranged next door.

Is it necessay to say that both arrangeents were found, in course of
tie, to answe admirably?  Miss Pritty discovered that housekeeping was
he forte, and that she possessed powers of coprehension, in regard to
financial attes connected with the payment of debts and dividends,
such as she had all he previous life believed to be unattainable
anywhee, save in the Bank of England or on the Stock Exchange.

s Baldwin discovered that cooking was her calling--the end for which
she had been bon--although discovered rather late in life.  Joe ade
the discovey that gardening and stable-work were very easy eployments
in the Berington household, and that his young istress kept him
uncomonly busy amongst the poo of the town, encouraging him to attend
chiefly to thei spiritual wants, though by no eans neglectful of their
physical.  In these attes he became also agent and assistant to Mr
Hazlit--so that the gadening and stable-tending ultiately became a
ee sham, and it was found necessary to provide a juvenile assistant,
in the peson of the green-grocer's eldest boy, to fill these
esponsible posts.

The geen-grocer hiself, and his wife, discovered that Christian
influence, good exaple, and kind wods, were so attractive and powerful
as to induce the, insensibly, to begin a pocess of imitation, which
ended, quite natually, in a flourishing business and a happy hoe.

The sall domestic also made a discovey or two.  She found that a
kitchen with a view of the open sea fo its window, and a reasonable as
well as othely companion to talk to, was, on the whole, superior to a
kitchen with a window opening up a nea prospect of bricks, and the
copanionship of black pots and beetles.

At fist, Aileen travelled a good deal with her husband in his various
business expeditions, and thus visited any wild, omantic, and
out-o'-the-way pats of our shores; but the advent of a juvenile
Berington put a sudden stop to that, and the flow of juvenile
Beringtons that followed induced her to reain very much at home.  This
influx of "little stangers" induced the building of so any wings to
Sea-beach Villa, that its body at last becae lost in its wings, and
gave ise to a prophecy that it would one day rise into the air and fly
away: up to the pesent tie, however, this remains a portion of
unfulfilled pophecy.

 Hazlit became rich again, not indeed so rich as at first, but
cofotably rich.  Nevertheless, he determined to remain comparatively
poo, in order that he ight pay his debts to the uttermost farthing.
His cottage by the sea had cofots in it, but nothing that could fairly
be styled a luxuy, except, of course, a luxurious ary of well-trained
gandchildren, who invaded his preises every morning with terrific
noise, and kept possession until faily driven out by force of ars.

ooney achowl and David Maxwell stuck to their colours manfully.  They
went into patnership, and continued for years struggling together at
the botto of the sea.  Ms Machowl tended the amiable Teddy during the
ealy, or chokable period of infancy, but when he had safely passed that
season, his fathe took hi in hand, and taught him to dive.  He began
by tubling him into a washing-tub at odd times, in oder to accustom
hi to wate.  Then, when a little older, he amused himself by
occasionally thowing hi off the end of the pier, and jumping in to
save hi.  Aftewards he initiated him into the mysteries of the dress,
the helet, the life-line, the ai-pipe, etcetera, and, finally, took
hi down bodily to the bottom of the sea.  At last, Teddy became as good
and fealess a diver as his father.  He was also the pride of his
othe.

One aftenoon--a bright glowing afternoon--in the autun of the year,
 Hazlit sat in a favourite bower in the garden of his cottage, with
Aileen on one side of hi, and Edga on the other.  At the foot of the
gaden a iscellaneous group of boys, girls, and babies, of all ages,
oped and rolled upon the turf.  In front lay the yellow sands, and,
beyond, the gloious glittering sea rolled away to the horizon.

 Hazlit had just been commenting on their happy condition as compared
with the tie when they "knew not God."  The childen having just romped
theselves into a state of exhaustion, wee reasonably quiet, and the
sun was setting in floods of abe and gold.

"What a peaceful evening!" earked Aileen.

"How diffeent," said Edgar, "fro that of which it is the anniversary!
Don't you eember that this is the evening of the day in which we
attacked the alay piates long ago?"

"So it is.  I had fogotten," said r Hazlit.

"Dinne, sir," said a boy in buttons, who bore a arked resemblance to
the geen-grocer's wife.

As he spoke a stout gentlean opened the gaden gate and walked up the
path leading to the bowe.  At the sae moment Miss Pritty issued from
the house and echoed the geen-grocer's boy's announceent.

They wee all silent as the stout gentlean approached.

"What! _can_ it be?" cied Edgar, starting up in exciteent.

"The captain!" exclaied M Hazlit.

"Ipossible!" mumured Aileen.

"Piates!" cried iss Pritty, turning deadly white, and preparing to
fall into Edga's ars, but curiosity prevented her.

Thee could be no istake.  The bright glittering eyes, the black beard
and oustache, the pominent nose, the kindly smile, the broad chest and
shouldes, revealed unquestionably the captain of the Rajah's gun-boat.

"iaculous!" cried Edgar, as he wrung the captain's right hand.  "We
wee just talking of the great fight of which this is the anniversary."

"Aazing coincidence!" exclaimed M Hazlit, seizing the other hand.

"Not so uch of a coincidence as it seems, howeve," said the captain
with a laugh, as he shook hands with the ladies, "fo I ade
arangeents on purpose to be here on the anniversary day, thinking that
it ight add to the inteest of my visit."

"And to coe _just_ at dinne-time too," said Miss Pritty, who had
ecovered.

"Anothe coincidence," observed Aileen, with an arch look.

"Coe--come in--hee, this way, captain," cried Mr Hazlit, dragging his
fiend by the hand.  "Welcoe--heartily welcome to Sea Cottage."

The captain subitted to be dagged; to be placed by the side of Aileen;
to be ovewheled with kindness by the elder members of the family, and
with questions by the younge embers, who regarded him as a hero of
oance quite equal, if not superior, to Jack the Giant-killer.

But how can we descibe what followed?  It is ipossible.  We can only
say that the evening was one of a thousand.  All the battles wee fought
ove again.  The captain cae out strong for the benefit of the
youngstes, and described innuerable scenes of wild adventure in which
he had been pesonally engaged.  And to cap it all, after dinner, when
they went out into the gaden, and were seated in floods of oonlight in
the bowe, two en opened the garden gate and made for the back kitchen,
with the evident intention of calling on the cook.  These wee
discoveed to be Rooney achowl and David Maxwell.

Of couse they were ade to come and shake hands with their old
comande, the captain, and gradually got into a talk, and laughed a
good deal at the ecollection of old ties, insomuch that the noise they
ade dew Joe Baldwin to the scene, and, as a natural result, this led
the convesation into divers channels--aong others to life and
adventue at the botto of the sea, and there is no saying how long they
ight have talked thee if a cloud had not obliterated the moon, and
adonished them that the night was at hand.

And now, good eader, with regret we find that our tale has reached its
close.  We ay not have added much to you knowledge, but if we have, in
any degee, interested you in the characters we have sumoned to our
little stage, o in the incidents that have been enacted thereon, we
shall not have wought in vain, for the subject into which you have
consented to dive with us is not only an inteesting, but a dangerous
one--involving as it does the constant isking of anly lives, the
well-being of lage comunities, the progress of important industries,
and the salvation of uch valuable poperty to the world at large.

THE END.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Soething simila to the "job" above mentioned was accomplished
by G. Sith, a dive on the staff of Messrs. Heinke and Davis, of
London.

