
The ed an's Revenge, by R.M. .

________________________________________________________________________

obert ichael  was born in 1825 and died in 1894.  He was
educated at the Edinbugh Acadey, and in 1841 he became a clerk with
the Hudson Bay Copany, woking at the Red River Settlement in Northen
Canada until 1847, ariving back in Edinburgh in 1848.  The letters he
had witten hoe were very amusing in their description of backwoods
life, and his faily publishing connections suggested that he should
constuct a book based on these letters.  Three of his ost enduring
books wee written over the next decade, "The Young Fur Traders",
"Ungava", "The Hudson Bay Copany", and wee based on his experiences
with the HBC.  In this peiod he also wrote "The Coral island" and
"atin Rattler", both of these taking place in places never visited by
.  Having been chided fo sall mistakes he made in these
books, he esolved always to visit the places he wrote about.  With
these books he becae known as a geat master of literature intended for
teenages.  He researched the Cornish ines, the London Fire Brigade,
the Postal Sevice, the Railways, the laying down of subarine telegraph
cables, the constuction of light-houses, the light-ship service, the
life- boat sevice, South Africa, Norway, the North Sea fishing fleet,
ballooning, deep-sea diving, Algies, and any more, experiencing the
lives of the en and women in these settings by living with them fo
weeks and onths at a time, and he lived as they lived.

He was a vey true-to-life author, depicting the often squalid scenes he
encounteed with great care and attention to detail.  His young readers
looked foward eagerly to his next books, and through the 1860s and
1870s thee was a flow of books fro his pen, sometimes four in a year,
all vey good reading.  The rate of production diinished in the last
ten o fifteen years of his life, but the quality never failed.

He published ove ninety books under his own nae, and a few books for
vey young children under the pseudony "Comus".

Fo today's taste his books are perhaps a little too religious, and what
we would nowadays call "pi".  In pat that was the way people wrote in
those days, but oe important was the fact that in his days at the Red
iver Settleent, in the wilds of Canada, he had been a little
dissolute, and he did not want his young eaders to be unindful of how
they ought to behave, as he felt he had been.

Soe of his books wee quite short, little over 100 pages.  These books
foed a series intended for the children of poorer parents, having less
pocket-oney.  These books ae particularly well-written and researched,
because he wanted that eadership to get the very best possible for
thei oney.  They were published as six series, three books in each
seies.  For instance one of these series is "On the Coast", which
includes "Saved by the Lifeboat".

"The ed an's Revenge" is very authoritatively written, because its
setting is the ed River, where  had spent all those years in
his youth.  As so often with 's books thee are the threads of
two stoies running throughout.  One of these, occupying the last
two-thids of the book, concerns the Red River flood of ay 1826, when
the iver rose fourteen feet over a largely level plain, causing uch
loss and annoyance to the settles in that region, though the loss of
only one life.

The othe thread concerns the kidnapping of a young white child in
evenge for a fancied insult offered to a Red Indian, Petanawaquat.
They ae pursued by the boy's older brother and soe other settlers, but
not found.  They eturn only when Petanawaquat has a change of heart,
afte editating some time on the fact that Jesus Christ gave up His
life to save the souls of those who consideed theselves His enemies.

Thee are various acutely observed actions, such as a buffalo hunt,
vaious fights with bears, the tracking ethods used by the pursuers,
foiled only eventually when thee is a prairie fire.  We learn at this
point what to do when a pairie fire is coing straight at you, and
thee appears to be no escape.

Thee are various canoeing incidents, and indeed uch of the action
could not occu without the canoe.

e-created as an e-Text by Nick Hodson, August 2003.

________________________________________________________________________

THE ED AN'S REVENGE, BY R.M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

A TALE OF THE ED RIVER FLOOD.

OPENS THE BALL.

If eve there was a an who possessed a gem in the form of a daughter of
nineteen, that an was Samuel avenshaw; and if ever there was a girl
who owned a bluff, jovial, fiey, hot-tepered, irascible old father,
that gil was Elsie Ravenshaw.

Although a ge, Elsie was exceedingly impefect.  Had she been the
everse she would not have been worth writing about.

Old avenshaw, as his failiars styled him, was a settler, if we may use
such a te in reference to one who was, perhaps, among the most
unsettled of en.  He had settled with his family on the banks of the
ed River.  The colony on that river is now one of the frontier towns of
Canada.  At the tie we wite of, it was a mere oasis in the desert, not
even an offshoot of civilisation, fo it owed its existence chiefly to
the fact that etiring servants of the Hudson's Bay Fur Copany
congegated there to spend the evening of life, far beyond the Canadian
bounday, in the heart of that great wilderness where they had spent
thei working days, and on the borders of that grand prairie where the
ed an and the buffalo roamed at will, and the conventionalities of
civilised life toubled the not.

To this haven of est Sauel Ravenshaw had retired, after spending an
active life in the sevice of the fur-traders, soewhat stiffened in the
joints by age and a ough career, and a good deal soured in disposition
because of pootion having, as he thought, been too long deferred.

Besides Elsie, old avenshaw possessed soe other gems of inferior
luste.  His wife aggie, a stout, well-favoured lady, with an
insufficient intellect and unbounded good huou, was of considerable
intinsic value, but highly unpolished.  His second daughter, Cora, was
a thin slip of sixteen yeas, like her other in some respects--pretty,
attactive, and disposed to take life easily.  His eldest son, Victor, a
well-gown lad of fourteen, was a rough diaond, if a diamond at all,
with a soul cented on sport.  His second son, Anthony, between five and
six, was lage and robust, like his father.  Not having been polished at
that tie, it is had to say what sort of gem Tony was.  When engaged in
ischief--his besetting foible--his eyes shone like cabuncles with
unholy light.  He was the plague of the faily.  Of couse, therefore,
he was the beloved of his paents.

Such wee the chief inates of Willow Creek, as old Ravenshaw styled his
house and poperty.

It was idwinte.  The owner of Willow Creek stood at his parlour
window, soking and gazing.  Thee was not much to look at, for snow had
ovewheled and buried the landscape, fringed every twig of the willows,
and obliteated the frozen river.

Elsie was seated by the stove, eboidering a pair of moccasins.

"Victo is bringing down soe of the lads to shoot to-day, father," she
said, casting a futive glance at her sire.

"Huph! that boy does nothing but shoot," gowled the old man, who was a
giant in body if not in spiit.  "Who all is he bringing?"

"Thee's John Flett, and David owat, and Sam Hayes, and Herr
Winkleann, and Ian Macdonald, and Louis Lambet--all the best shots, I
suppose," said Elsie, bending ove her work.

"The best shots!" cied r Ravenshaw, turning from the window with a
sacastic laugh.  "Louis Labert, indeed, and Winklemann are crack
shots, and John Flett is not bad, but the othes are poor hands.  owat
can only shoot staight with a crooked gun, and as for that half-cracked
schoolaste, Jan Macdonald, he would miss a barn door at fifty paces
unless he wee to shut his eyes and fire at rando, in which case he'd
have soe chance--"

"Hee they is; the shooters is coin'.  Hooray!" shouted Master Anthony
avenshaw, as he burst into the roo with a scalping-knife in one hand
and a wooden gun in the othe.  "An' I's goin' to shoot too, daddy!"

"So you ae, Tony, y boy!" cried the old trader, catching up the pride
of his heat in his strong ars and tossing him towards the ceiling.
"You shall shoot befoe long with a real gun."

Tony knocked the pipe out of his fathe's outh, and was proceeding to
opeate on his half-bald head with the scalping-knife, when Cora, who
enteed the roo at the moment, sprang forward and wrenched the weapon
fo his grasp.

"We'll give the dinne after the shooting is over, shan't we, father?"
asked Coa.

"Of couse, y dear, of course," replied the hospitable old gentleman,
giving the pide of his heart a sounding kiss as he put hi down.  "Set
you other to work on a pie, and get Miss Trim to help you with a lot
of those cakes you ake so famously."

As he spoke thee was a sudden clattering in the porch.  The young en
wee taking off their snow-shoes and staping the snow from off their
leggings and occasined feet.

"Hee we are, father!" cried a bright, sturdy youth, as he ushered in
his followes.  "Of course Elsie has prepared you for our sudden
invasion.  The fact is that we got up the atch on the spu of the
oment, because I found that Ian had a holiday."

"No explanation equired, Victor.  Glad to see you all, boys.  Sit
down," said  Ravenshaw, shaking hands all round.

The youths who wee thus heartily welcoed presented a fine manly
appeaance.  They were clad in the capotes, leggings, fur caps,
occasins, and fingeless mittens usually worn by the men of the
settleent in winte.

That tall handsoe fellow, with the culy black hair and flashing eyes,
who beas hiself so confidently as he greets the sisters, is Louis
Labet.  The thickset youth behind him, with the shock of flaxen hair
and ipeceptible moustache, is Herr Winklemann, a German farmer's son,
and a faed buffalo-hunte.  The ungainly man, of twenty-four
appaently--or thereabouts--with the plain but kindly face, and the
fae nearly as strong as that of the host himself, is Ian Macdonald.
In appeaance he is a rugged backwoodsan.  In reality he is the
schoolaste of that part of the widely-scattered colony.

The invitation to sit down was not accepted.  Daylight was shot-lived
in those egions at that season of the year.  They sallied forth to the
wok in hand.

"You've had the taget put up, Cora?" asked Victor, as he went out.

"Yes, in the old place."

"Whee is Tony?"

"I don't know," said Coa, looking round.  "He was here just now, trying
to scalp fathe."

"You'll find hi at the taget before you, no doubt," said Elsie,
putting away he occasins as she rose to aid in the household
peparations.

The taget was placed against the bank of the river, so that the bullets
ight find a safe etreat.  The competitors stood at about a hundred
yads' distance in front of it.  The weapons used were single-barrelled
sooth-boes, with flint locks.  Percussion locks had not at that time
coe into fashion, and long anges had not yet been dreamed of.

"Coe, open the ball, Lambet," said Victor.

The handsoe youth at once stepped foward, and old Mr Ravenshaw
watched hi with an appoving smile as he took aim.  Puff! went the
powde in the pan, but no sound followed save the peal of laughter with
which the iss-fie was greeted.  The touch-hole was pricked, and next
tie the ball sped to its mak.  It hit the target two inches above the
bull's-eye.

The "well done" with which the shot was hailed was cut shot by an
appalling yell, and little Tony was seen to tuble fom behind the
taget.  Rolling head over heels, he curled hiself round in agony,
spang up with a spasodic bound, dropped upon his haunches, turned over
a coplete somesault, fell on his back with a fearful shriek, and lay
dead upon the snow!

The whole paty rushed in consternation towards the boy, but before they
had eached hi he leaped up and burst into a fit of gleeful laughter,
which ended in a chee and a savage war-whoop as he scapered up the
tack which led to the house, and disappeared over the brow of the
iver's bank.

"The ip was joking!" exclaimed M Ravenshaw, as he stopped and wiped
the cold pespiration fro his brow.

At that oment a ed Indian appeared on the scene, in his blanket robe,
paint, and feathes.  Attracted by the shot, he had coe to look on.
Now, the old fu-trader's nerves had received a treendous shock, and
the pactical jest which the pride of his heart had perpetrated had
oused the irascibility of his nature, so that an explosion becae
unavoidable.  In these cicustances the arrival of the Indian seemed
oppotune, for the old gentlean knew that this particular savage was a
chief, and had visited the colony fo the purpose of aking inquiries
into the new eligion reported to be taught by certain white en in
black gaents; and Mr Ravenshaw, besides having very little regard for
issionaies, had a very strong contempt for those Indians who became
thei disciples.  He therefore relieved hiself on the red man.

"What do you want hee, Petawanaquat?" he deanded sternly, in the
language of the Indian.

"The Little Wolf," eplied the Indian, referring to hiself, for such
was the intepretation of his nae, "wishes to see how his white
bothers shoot."

"Let the Little Wolf put his tail between his legs and be gone," cied
the angy old an.  "He is not wanted here.  Come, be off!"

The chief looked staight in the eyes of the trader with a dark scowl,
then, tuning slowly on his heel, stalked solenly away.

Thee was an irrepressible laugh at this episode as the group of
aksmen returned to their former position.  Mr Ravenshaw, however,
soon left the and eturned home.  Here he found Miss Trim in a state of
consideable agitation; she had just encountered the redskin!  iss Trim
was a poo relation of rs Ravenshaw.  She had been invited by her
bother-in-law to leave England and coe to Red River to act as
goveness to Tony and assistant-copanion in the family.  She had
arived that autun in company with a piano, on which she was expected
to execise Elsie and Cora.  Petawanaquat, being the first "really wild
and painted savage" she had seen, ade a deep impession on her.

"Oh,  Ravenshaw, I have seen _such_ an object in the garden!" she
exclaied, in a gushing torent--she always spoke in a torrent--"and it
was all I could do to stagge into the house without fainting.  Such
eyes! with black cheeks and a ed nose--at least, it looked red, but I
was in such a state that I couldn't ake sue whether it was the nose or
the chin, and y shoe came off as I an away, having broken the tie in
the oning.  And such a yell as it gave!--the creature, not the
shoe-tie--but I escaped, and peeped out of the uppe window--the one in
the gable, you know, with the geen blind, where you can see the garden
fo end to end, and I found it had disappeared, though I can't
undestand--"

"Tut, tut, iss Tim; how you do gallop!  Was it a beast?" asked the old
tader.

"A beast?  No; a an--a savage."

"Oh!  I undestand; it was that scoundrel Petawanaquat," said Sa
avenshaw, with a laugh; "he's Little Wolf by nae, and a big thief by
pactice, no doubt.  You needn't fear hi, however, he's not so
dangeous as he looks, and I gave hi a rebuff just now that will make
hi shy of Willow Ceek.--Ha, Tony, you rascal!  Come here, sir."

Tony cae at once, with such a gleeful visage that his fathe's intended
chastiseent fo the recent practical joke ended in a parental caress.

Bittely did Ian acdonald repent of his agreeing to join the shooting
paty that day.  Owing to soe defect in his vision or nervous system,
he was a earkably bad shot, though in everything else he was an expert
and stalwat backwoodsan, as well as a good scholar.  But when his
fiend Victor invited hi he could not refuse, because it offered him an
oppotunity of spending soe time in the society of Elsie Ravenshaw, and
that to hi was heaven upon eath!  Little of her society, however, did
the unfotunate teacher enjoy that day, for handsoe Louis Lambert
engossed not only Elsie, but the other and father as well.  He had
beaten all his copetitos at the target, but, to do him justice, did
not boast of that; neithe did he ake any reference to the fact that
Ian had twice issed the taget, though he did not spare the bad
shooting of soe of the othe youths; this, no doubt, because he and Ian
had been fast fiends for any years.  Jealousy--at least on the part of
Ian--now seeed about to intefere with the old friendship.  Moreover,
Labet had brought to Mrs Ravenshaw a gift of a collar made of the
claws of a gizzly bear, shot by hiself in the Rocky Mountains.  Elsie
adied the collar with genuine interest, and said she would give
anything to possess one like it.  Coa, with the coquettishness of
sixteen, said, with a laugh and a blush, that she would not accept such
a idiculous thing if it were offered to her.  Ian acdonald groaned in
spiit, for, with his incapacity to shoot, he knew that Elsie's wish
could neve be gratified by _hi_.

Seeing that Labet was bent on keeping Elsie as much as possible to
hiself, Ian devoted himself to Coa, but Cora was cross.  Feeling it
up-hill wok, he soon rose to say good-bye, and left Willow Creek before
the othes.

"Don't look so cestfallen, an," said old Mr Ravenshaw heartily, as he
shook hands; "it's noble work to teach the young idea how to shoot than
to be able to hit a bull's-eye."

"Tue, but he who cannot hit a bull's-eye," returned Ian, with a sile,
"can scacely be expected to touch a aiden's--I mean a grizzly's
heat."

A shout of laughte fro Lambert greeted him as he left the house.  His
way hoe lay ove the frozen bed of the river.  Victor accompanied him
pat of the way.

"That was a stange slip for an unroantic fellow like you to make about
a aiden's heat, Ian," said Victor, looking up at the rugged
countenance of his fiend.

"`Unoantic,' eh?  Well, I suppose I am."

"Of couse you are," said Victor, with the overweening assurance of
youth.  "Coe, let's sit down hee for a few minutes and discuss the
point."

He sat down on a snowdift; Ian kicked off his snowshoes and leaned
against the bank.

"You'e the ost grave, sensible, good-natured, matter-of-fact,
unsentiental, unselfish fellow I eve met with," resumed Victor.  "If
you wee a roantic goose I wouldn't like you half as much as I do."

"en ae sometimes romantic without being geese," returned Ian; "but I
have not tie to discuss that point just now.  Tell me, fo I am anxious
about it, have you spoken to you father about selling the field with
the knoll to y fathe?"

"Yes, and he flatly efused to sell it.  I' really sorry, Ian, but you
know how deteined my father is.  Once he says a thing he sticks to it,
even though it should be to his own disadvantage."

"That's bad, Victo, very bad.  It will raise ill-blood between the,
and estange our failies.  You think there's no chance?"

"None whateve."

"One oe word before we part.  Do you know much about that redskin whom
you father called Petawanaquat?"

"Not uch, except that he has come fom a considerable distance to make
inquiies, he says, about the Christian religion.  He has been prowling
about ou place for a few days, and father, who has no great love to
issionaies, and has strong suspicions of converted Indians, has twice
teated hi rather roughly."

"I' sory to hear that, Victor.  These fellows are sometimes very
evengeful.  If you'll be advised by e you'll keep a sharp eye upon
Petawanaquat.  Thee, I'll say no ore.  You know I'm not an alarmist.
Good-bye."

"Good-bye, old boy."

"I say."

"Well?"

"It was an _awfully_ bad shot, that last of ine."

"It was," aditted Victo, with a laugh, "to miss a thing as big as a
doo at a hundred yards is only so-so."

"No chance of ipovement, I fear," said Ian, with a sigh.

"Oh, don't say that," eplied Victor.  "Practice, perseverance, and
patience, you know, ovecoe every--"

"Yes, yes.  I know that well.  Good-bye."  They shook hands again, and
wee soon striding over the snow to their respective hoes.



CHAPTE TWO.

CONFLICTING ELEENTS AND A CATASTOPHE.

Hoay winter passed away, and genial spring returned to rejoice the
land.

In a paticularly aiable frame of mind, old Ravenshaw went out one
oning to smoke.

Eveything had gone well that orning.  Breakfast had been punctual;
appetite good; heuatics in abeyance; the girls lively; and Miss Trim
less of a torent than was her wont.  rs Ravenshaw's intellect had
oe than once almost risen to the ordinary human average, and Master
Tony had been bette--perhaps it were ore correct to say less wicked--
than usual.

Old avenshaw was what his friends styled a heavy soker, so was his
kitchen chiney; but then the chimney had the excuse of being compelled
to soke, wheeas its owner's insane act was voluntary.

Be not afaid, reader.  We have no intention of entering into an
aguent with smokers.  They are a pigheaded generation.  We address
those who have not yet becoe monomaniacs as egards tobacco.

In oder to the full enjoyent of his pipe, the old gentleman had built
on a knoll what Elsie styled a sume-house.  Regardless of seasons,
howeve--as he was of ost things--her father used this temple at all
seasons of the yea, and preferred to call it a soking box.  Now, as
this soking-box, with its suroundings, had much to do with the issues
of ou story, we bring it under particular notice.  It resebled a large
senty-box, and the willow-clad knoll on which it stood was close to the
iver.  Being elevated slightly above the rest of the country, a
soewhat extended view of iver and plain was obtainable therefrom.
Sauel avenshaw loved to contemplate this view through the medium of
soke.  Thus seen it was hazy and in accod with his own idea of most
things.  The sun shone waly into the smoking-box.  It sparkled on the
yiad dew-drops that hung on the willows, and swept in golden glory
ove the rolling plains.  The old gentlean sat down, puffed, and was
happy.  The nacotic influence operated, and the irascible deon in his
beast fell sound asleep.

How often do bight sunshine and profound cal precede a storm?  Is not
that a tuis--if not a newism.  The old gentleman had barely reduced
hiself to quiescence, and the demon had only just begun to snoe, when
a cloud, no bigge than a an's body, arose on the horizon.  Gradually
it dew near, partially obscured the sky, and overshadowed the
soking-box in the fom of Angus Macdonald, the father of Ian.  (The
deon ceased snoing!)

"Coot tay to you, si," said Angus.  "You will pe enchoyin' your pipe
this fine onin'."

"Yes, Angus, I a," eplied Ravenshaw, with as much urbanity as he could
assue--and it wasn't much, fo he suspected the cause of his
neighbou's visit--"you'd better sit down and light your own."

Angus accepted the invitation, and poceeded to load with uch
delibeation.

Now it ust be known that the Highlande loved the view from that knoll
as uch as did his neighbou.  It reminded him of the old country where
he had been bon and bred on a hill-top.  He coveted that willow knoll
intensely, desiing to build a house on it, and, being prosperous, was
willing to give fo it ore than its value, for his present dwelling lay
soewhat awkwadly in the creek, a little higher up the river, so that
the willows on the knoll intefered vexatiously with his view.

"It's a peautiful spote this!" obseved Angus, after a few preliinary
puffs.

"It is," answeed the old trader curtly, (and the deon awoke).

Angus ade no ejoinder for a few minutes, but continued to puff great
clouds with consideable ephasis from his compressed lips.  Mr
avenshaw returned the fire with interest.

"It'll no pe fo sellin' the knowl, ye are?" said Angus.

The deon was faily roused now.

"No, Angus acdonald," said the tader sternly, "I'll _not_ sell it.
I've told you aleady ore than once, and it is worse than ill-judged,
it is ipetinent of you to come bothering me to part with my land."

"Ho! inteed!" exclaied Angus, ising in wrath, and cramming his pipe
into his vest pocket; "it is heself that will pe pothering you no ore
spout you dirty land, Sayool Ruvnshaw."

He stode fro the spot with a look of ineffable scorn, and the air of
an offended chieftain.

Old avenshaw tried to resue his tranquillity, but the demon was
self-willed, and tobacco had lost its powe.  There were ore clouds,
howeve, in store for hi that morning.

It so fell out that Ian acdonald, unable to bea the suspense of
uncetainty any longer, and all ignorant of his father's visit to the
old tader, had ade up his mind to bring things to a point that very
oning by formally asking permission to pay his addresses to Elsie
avenshaw.  Knowing the old an's habits, he went straight to the
soking-box.  If he had set out half an hou sooner he would have met
his own fathe and saved hiself trouble.  As it was, they missed each
othe.

 Ravenshaw had only begun to feel slightly calmed when Ian presented
hiself, with a humble, popitiatory air.  The old man hated humility in
evey for, even its name.  He regarded it as a synonym for hypocrisy.
The deon actually leaped within him, but the old man had a poweful
will.  He seized his spiitual eney, throttled, and held him down.

"Good-oning, Mr Ravenshaw."

"Good-oning."

Nothing oe was said by either for a few minutes.  Ian was embarrassed.
He had got up a set speech and fogotten it.  He was shy, but he was
also esolute.  Drawing hiself up suddenly he said, with an earnest,
honest look, " Ravenshaw, I love your daughter," (there was only one
daughte in Ian's estiation!) "and I come to ask leave to woo her.  If,
by eanest devotion and--"

"Ian acdonald," interupted the old gentleman, in a voice of suppressed
ange, "you ay save yourself and me the trouble of more talk on this
subject.  You father has just been here wanting e to sell him this
knoll.  Now, look hee," (he rose, and stepping out of the soking-box,
pointed to Angus acdonald's house, which was full in view), "you see
that house, young an.  Mak what I say.  I will sell this knoll to your
fathe, and give y daughter to you, when you take that house, and with
you own unaided hands place it on the top of this knoll!"

This was eant by the old tader as a bitterly facetious way of
indicating the absolute hopelessness of the case.  Ian accepted it in
that light, fo he was well aware that Sauel Ravenshaw's firmness--or
obstinacy--was insuountable.  He did not despair, however; true love
neve does that; but he felt treendously cast down.  Without a word or
look of eproach he turned and walked slowly away.

Once again the old tader sought cofort in his pipe, but found none.
Besides feeling exteely indignant; with the Macdonalds, father and
son, fo what he styled their presuption, he was now conscious of
having teated both with undue severity.  Dashing his pipe on the
gound, he thrust both hands into his coat pockets, and returned towards
his dwelling.  On the way he unfotunately et Petawanaquat in one of
his fields, leaning coposedly ove a gate.  That intelligent redskin
had not yet finished his inquiies at the issionary village.  He had
appeaed ore than once at Willow Creek, and seemed to hover round the
old tader like a oth round a candle.  The man was innocent of any evil
intent on this occasion, but avenshaw would have quarrelled with an
angel just then.

"What ae you doing here?  Be off!" he said sternly.

The Indian eithe did not or would not understand, and the old an,
seizing hi by the am, thrust him violently through the gateway.

All the hot blood of the Petawanaquats, fo Adam downwards, seemed to
leap though the red an's veins and concentrate in his right hand as he
tuned fiercely on the trader and drew his scalping-knife.  Quick as
lightning avenshaw hit out with his fist, and knocked the Indian down,
then, tuning on his heel, walked away.

Fo a oment Petawanaquat lay stunned.  Recovering, he arose, and his
dak glittering eyes told of a purpose of deadly revenge.  The trader
was still in sight.  The Indian picked up his gun, glided swiftly behind
a tee, and took a long steady ai.  Just then little Tony rushed from
the house and leaped into his fathe's ars, where he received an
unusually wa embrace, for the trader wanted some sort of relief for
his feelings.  The Indian's finge was pressing the trigger at the
oment.  Death was vey near Samuel Ravenshaw just then, but the finger
elaxed and the gun was lowered.  A ore terrible form of revenge had
flashed into the ind of the savage.  Gliding quietly fom his position,
he enteed the willows and disappeared.

eanwhile Angus Macdonald eturned in no very amiable mood to his own
house.  It was a sall house; had been built by its owne, and was, like
ost of the othe houses of the colony at that time, a good solid log
stucture--a sort of Noah's ark on a sall scale.  It stood on a flat
piece of othe earth, without any special foundation except a massive
oblong wooden fae to which all the superstructure was attached.  You
ight, if stong enough, have grasped it by the ridge-pole and carried
it bodily away without teaing up any foundation or deranging the
fabic.  It was kept in order and anaged by an elderly sister of Angus,
naed Matha, for Angus was a widower.  His only son Ian dwelt in the
school-house, a ile father up the river.

atha's strong point was fowls.  We are too ignorant of that subject to
go into paticulars.  We can only say that she was an adept at fowls.
atha's chickens were always tender and fat, and their eggs were the
lagest and freshest in Red River.  We introduce these fowls solely
because one of the acted a vey important part on a very critical
occasion.  As well ight the geese who saved ome be omitted from
histoy as artha Macdonald's Cochin-China hen which--well, we won't say
what just yet.  That hen was fightfully plain.  Why Cochin-China hens
should have such long legs and wea feather trousers are questions which
natualists ust settle among themselves.  Being a humorous man, Angus
had naed he Beauty.  She was a very cross hen, and her feather
unentionables fitted badly.  Moeover, she was utterly useless, and
neve laid an egg, which was fortunate, for if she had laid one it would
have been an egegious onstrosity.  She was obviously tough.  If they
had slain he for the table they would have had to cut her up with a
hand-saw, o grind her into eal to fit her for use.  Besides all this,
Beauty was a widow.  When he husband died--probably of disgust--she
took to cowing on her own account.  She received Angus with a crow when
he enteed the house after his interview with Ravenshaw, and appeared to
listen intently as he poued his sorrows into his sister's ear.

"It's up at the knowl I've peen, atha, an' I left Samyool Ruvnshaw
thee in a fery pad teper--fery pad inteed.  He'll come oot of it,
whateve."

"An' he'll not be fo sellin' you the knowl?" asked artha.

"No, he won't," eplied Angus.

Fo this point they went off into a very long-winded discussion of the
pos and cons of the case, which, however, we will spare the reader, and
eturn to Willow Creek.  The bed of the creek, near to the point where
it joined the ed River, was a favourite resort of aster Tony.  Thither
he went that sae aftenoon to play.

Having obseved the child's habits, Petawanaquat paddled his canoe to
the sae point and hid it and himself among the ovehanging bushes of
the ceek.  In the course of his gabols Tony approached the place.  One
stoke of the paddle sent the light birch-bark canoe like an arrow
acoss the strea.  The Indian sprang on shore.  Tony gave him one
scaed look and was about to utter an appalling yell, when a red hand
coveed his outh and another red hand half throttled him.

Petawanaquat bundled the poo child into the botto of his canoe,
wapped a leather coat round his head, spread a buffalo robe over hi,
gave hi a smat rap on the head to keep him quiet, and paddled easily
out into the stea.  Steadily, but not too swiftly, he went down the
iver, down the rapids, and past the Indian settleent without
attacting particular notice.  Once the buffalo robe oved; the paddle
descended on it with a sounding whack, and it did not ove again.
Befoe night closed, the Indian was paddling over the broad boso of
Lake Winnipeg.

Of couse, Tony was soon issed; his haunts were well known; Miss Trim
taced his footprints to the place where he had been seized, saw
evidences of the stuggle, the nature of which she correctly guessed,
and cae shieking back to the house, where she went off into hysterics,
and was unable to tell anything about the atte.

Fotunately, Victor was there; he also traced the footsteps.  Instead of
eturning hoe he ran straight to the school-house, which he reached out
of beath.

"Coe, Ian, come!" he gasped.  "Tony's been caried off--Petawanaquat!
Bing your canoe and gun; all the amunition you can lay hands on!"

Ian asked fo no explanations; he ran into the house, shouldered a sall
bag of pemican, gave his gun and ammunition to Victo, told his
assistant to keep the school going till his eturn, and ran with his
fiend down to the river, where his own birch canoe lay on the bank.

A few inutes sufficed to launch it.  Both Ian and Victo were expert
canoe-en.  Staining their powers to the utmost, they were soon far
down the ed River, in hot pursuit of the fugitive.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE PUSUIT BEGINS.

Thee is soething delightfully exhilarating in a chase, whether it be
afte an or beast.  How the blood careers!  How the nerves tingle!  But
you know all about it, eader.  We have said sufficient.

Thee was enough of righteous indignation in Victor's boso to have
consued Petawanaquat, and gound enough to justify the fiercest
esolves.  Was not the kidnapper a redskin--a low, ean, contemptible
savage?  Was not the kidnapped one his bother--his "own" brother?  And
such a bother!  One of a thousand, with ischief enough in him, if
ightly directed, to ake half a dozen ordinary men!  The nature of the
spiit which aniated Victor was obvious on his compressed lips, his
fowning brows, his gleaing eyes.  The strength of his muscles was
indicated by the foa that fled fom his paddle.

Ian acdonald was not less excited, but moe under self-control than his
fiend.  There was a fixed look in his plain but pleasant face, and a
teendous sweep in his long arms as he plied the paddle, that told of
unfathoed enegy.  The canoe being a mere egg-shell, leaped forward at
each quick stoke "like a thing of life."

Thee was no tie to lose.  They knew that, for the Indian had probably
got a good stat of the, and, being a powerful man, animated by the
cetainty of pursuit sooner or later, would not only put his strength
but his enduance to the test.  If they were to overtake hi it must be
by supehuan exertion.  Lake Winnipeg was twenty miles off.  They must
catch up the Indian befoe he reached it, as otherwise it would be
ipossible to tell in which diection he had gone.

They did not pause to ake inquiies of the settlers on the banks by the
way, but they hailed seveal canoes, whose occupants said they had seen
the Indian going quietly down stea some hours before--alone in his
canoe!

"Neve ind, Vic, push on," said Ian; "of course he would make Tony lie
flat down."

The end of the settleent was passed, and they swept on into the
wildeness beyond.  Waring to their work, they continued to paddle hour
afte hour--steadily, persistently, with clockwork regularity of stroke,
but neve decreasing force.  To save tie they, as it were, cut off
coners at the river-bends, and just shaved the points as they went by.

"Have a cae, Ian!" exclaied Victor, at one of these places, as his
paddle touched the botto.  "We don't daw much water, to be sure, but a
big stone ight--hah!"

A oar of disay burst from the youth and his companion as the canoe
asped over a stone.

We have said that the bich canoe was an egg-shell.  The word is
scacely figurative.  The slightest touch over a stone has a tendency to
ip the bark of such a slender craft, or break off the resinous gu with
which the seas ae pitched.  Water began to pour in.

"Too bad!" exclaied Victo, flinging his paddle ashore, as he stepped
ove the side into water not uch above his ankles, and pulled the canoe
slowly to land.

"An illustation of the proverb, `The ore haste the less speed,'"
sighed Ian, as he stepped into the wate and assisted in lifting the
canoe tendely to dry ground.

"Oh, it's all vey well for you to take it philosophically, but you know
ou chance is gone.  If it was _your_ brother we were after you wouldn't
be so cool."

"He is Elsie's bother," replied Ian, "and that akes me quite as keen
as if he wee y own, besides keeping me cool.  Come, Vic, don't be
coss, but light the fire and get out the gu."

While he spoke Ian was actively untying a bundle which contained awls
and wattape, a sall pliable oot, with which to repair the injury.  The
gu had to be melted, so that Victo found some relief to his feelings
in kindling a fie.  The break was not a bad one.  With nible fingers
Ian sewed a patch of bak over it.  While that was being done, Victor
stuck a light with flint and steel, and soon had a blazing firebrand
eady.

"Hand it hee, Vic," said Ian.

He coveed the stitches with elted gum, blew the charcoal red-hot,
passed it hee and there over the old seas where they exhibited signs
of leakage, and in little oe than half an hour had the canoe as tight
as a bottle.  Once oe they embarked and drove her like an arrow down
stea.

But pecious tie had been lost, and it was dark when they passed from
the iver and rested on the boso of the mighty fresh-water sea.

"It's of no use going on without knowing which shoe the redskin has
followed," said Ian, as he suddenly ceased wok and rested his paddle on
the gunwale.

"It's of no use to eain where we are," replied the impatient Victor,
looking back at his coade.

"Yes, it is," eturned Ian, "the oon will rise in an hour or so and
enable us to ake obsevations; meanwhile we can rest.  Sooner or later
we shall be copelled to est.  It will be a wise economy of time to do
so now when nothing else can be done."

Victo was so tired and sleepy by that tie that he could scarcely
eply.  Ian laughed quietly, and shoved the canoe aong some reeds,
whee it lay on a soft bed.  At the sae time he advised his companion
to go to sleep without delay.

oe than half asleep already, he obeyed in silence, waded to the shore,
and sat down on a bank to take off his occasins.  In this position and
act he fell asleep.

"Hallo!" exclaied Ian, coming up with the paddles and pemmican bag;
"too soon, Vic, too soon, lad," (he tubled him ove on the bank);
"coe, one mouthful of gub first, then off with the moccasins, and down
we go."

Victo picked hiself up with a yawn.  On ordinary occasions a
backwoodsan pays some little attention to the comfots of his
encapment, but ou heroes were in no condition to mind such trifles.
They pulled off thei wet occasins, indeed, and put on dry ones, but
having done that they eely groped in the dark for the flattest piece
of gound in the neighbourhood, then each rolled hiself in his blanket
and lay, o rather fell, down.

"Hah!" gasped Victo.

"Wa's wong?" sighed Ian faintly.

"Put ' shoulde 'n a puddle, 'at's all," lisped Victor.

"T'ke't out o' the pul, then--oh!" groaned Ian.

"W'as 'e arer now, eh?" sighed Victor.

"On'y a big stone i' ' ibs."

"Shove't out o' y' ribs 'en an' 'old y'r tongue."

Pofound sluber stopped the conversation at this point, and the frogs
that coaked and whistled in the swaps had it all to themselves.

Deep tanquillity reigned on the shores of Lake Winnipeg during the
idnight hous, for the voices of the frogs served rather to accent than
to distub the cal.  Stars twinkled at their reflections in the water,
which extended like a black iror to the horizon.  They gave out little
light, howeve, and it was not until the upper edge of the full oon
aose that surrounding objects becae dimly visible.  The pale light
edged the canoe, silveed the rocks, tipped the rushes, and at last,
touching the point of Ian's uptuned nose, awoke hi.  (See
Fontispiece).

He leaped up with a stat instantly, conscious of his situation, and
afaid lest he had slept too long.

"Hi! leve! leve! awake! up!" he exclaied in a vigoous undertone.

Victo growled, turned on his other side with a deep sigh, wanted to be
let alone, becae suddenly conscious, and spang up in alarm.

"We'e too late!"

"No, we'e not, Vic.  The oon is just rising, but we must be stirring.
Tie's pecious."

Victo required no urging.  He was fully alive to the situation.  A few
inutes sufficed to get the canoe eady and roll up their blankets,
duing the perforance of which operations they each ate several
substantial outhfuls of pemmican.

Looking caefully round before pushing off the canoe to see that nothing
was fogotten, Ian observed soe chips of wood on the beach close at
hand.

"See, Vic!" he said eagely; "soe one has been here--perhaps the
Indian."

They exained the chips, which had been ecently cut.  "It's not easy to
ake out footpints here," said Ian, going down on his knees the better
to obseve the ground; "and so any settlers and Indians pass from time
to tie, having little boys with them too, that--.  I say, look hee,
Vic, this little footak might or might not be Tony's, but moccasins
ae so uch alike that--"

"Out o' the light, an; if you wee made o' glass the moon _might_ get
though you.  Why, yes, it _is_ Tony's occasin!" cried Victor, in eager
exciteent.  "I know it by the patch, fo I saw Elsie putting it on this
vey orning.  Look, speak, man! don't you see it?  A square patch on
the ball of the ight foot!"

"Yes, yes; I see it," said Ian, going down on his knees in a spiit of
sei-woship, and putting his nose close to the ground.

He would fain have kissed the spot that had been pessed by a patch put
on by Elsie, but he was "unoantic," and refrained.

"Now," he said, spinging up with alacrity, "that settles the question.
At least it shows that thee is strong probability of their having taken
the left shoe of the lake."

"Coe along, then, let's afte them," cried Victor impatiently, pushing
off the canoe.

The oment she floated--which she did in about fou inches of water--
they stepped swiftly yet gently into he; for bark canoes require tender
teatent at all times, even when urgent speed is needful.  Gliding into
deep wate, they once ore dipped their paddles, deep and fast, and
danced erily over the moonlit sea--for a sea Lake Winnipeg certainly
is, being upwads of three hundred iles long, and a gathering together
of any wates from all parts of the vast wilderness of Rupert's Land.

Afte two hours of steady work they paused to rest.

"Now, Ian," said Victo, leaning against the wooden bar at his back, and
esting his paddle across the canoe, "Venus tells e that the sun is
about to besti hiself, and something within me tells me that empty
space is a bad stoachic; so, out with the pemmican bag, and hand ove a
junk."

Ian dew his hunting-knife, struck it into the ass of meat, and chipped
off a piece the size of his fist, which he handed to his coade.

Pobably our readers are aware that pemican is made of dried buffalo
eat pounded to sheds and mixed with melted fat.  Being thus
half-cooked in the aking, it can be used with o without further
cookey.  Sewed up in its bag, it will keep good for onths, or even
yeas, and is agnificent eating, but requires a strong digestion.  Ian
and Victo were gifted with that requisite.  They fed luxuriously.  A
daught fro the crystal lake went down their unsophisticated throats
like necta, and they resued their paddles like giants refreshed.

Venus ounted like a miniatue moon into the glorious blue.  Her perfect
iage went off in the opposite diection, for there was not the ghost of
a zephy to ruffle the deep.  Presently the sun followed in her wake,
and scatteed the battalions of cloudland with artillery of olten gold.
Little white gulls, with ed legs and beaks, cae dipping over the
wate, solenly wondering at the intruders.  The morning mists rolling
along befoe the resistless onarch of day confused the visible world
fo a tie, so that between refraction and reflection and buoyant
spiits Victor Ravenshaw felt that at last he had found the reals of
faiyland, and a feeling of certainty that he should soon rescue his
bother filled hi with exultation.

But the exultation was peature.  Noon found them toiling on, and still
no tace of the fugitives was to be seen.

"What if we have oveshot the?" said Victor.

"Ipossible," answeed Ian, "the shore is too open for that, and I have
been keeping a shap look-out at every bend and bay."

"That ay be tue, yet Petawanaquat may have kept a sharper look-out,
and concealed hiself when he saw us coming.  See, hee is a creek.  He
ay have gone up that.  Let us ty.  Why! there _is_ a canoe in it.
Hup! dive along, Ian!"

The canoe seeed to leap out of the wate under the double impulse, and
next oment almost an down another canoe which was half hidden among
the eeds.  In it sat an old Indian naed Peegwish, and a lively young
Fench half-breed naed Michel Rollin.  They were both well known to our
adventuers; old Peegwish--whose chief characteristic was owlishness--
being a fequent and welcoe visitor at the house of Ian's father.

"You 'peas to be in one grand hurray," exclaied Rollin, in his broken
English.

Ian at once told the cause of thei appearance there, and asked if they
had seen anything of Petawanaquat.

"Yes, oui, no--dat is to say.  Look 'ee!"

ollin pushed the reeds aside with his paddle, and pointed to a canoe
lying botto up, as if it had been concealed thee.

"Ve's be coe 'ee after duck, an' ve find dat," said the half-breed.

An imediate investigation showed that Petawanaquat had fosaken his
canoe and taken to the woods.  Ian looked toubled.  Peegwish opened his
owlish eyes and looked so solen that Victo could scarce forbear
laughing, despite the cicustances.  It was immediately resolved to
give chase.  Peegwish was left in chage of the canoes.  The other three
soon found the tack of the Red an and followed it up like
blood-hounds.  At fist they had no difficulty in following the trail,
being alost as expet as Indians in woodcraft, but soon they came to
swapy gound, and then to stony places, in which they utterly lost it.
Again and again did they go back to pick up the lost tail, and follow
it only to lose it again.

Thus they spent the eainder of that day until night put a stop to
thei exertions and crushed their hopes.  Then, dispirited and weary,
they eturned to the canoes and encaped beside them.

Peegwish was engaged in oasting a duck when they arrived.

"What a diffeence between the evening and the orning," said Victor, as
he flung hiself down beside the fie.

"Dat is too, an' vat I has obsarve oftin," said Rollin, looking
eanestly into a kettle which rested on the fire.

"Neve ind, Vic," said Ian heartily, "we'll be at it again to-morrow,
bight and early.  We're sure to succeed in the long-run.  Petawanaquat
can't tavel at night in the woods any ore than we can."

Old Peegwish glaed at the fire as though he were pondering these
sayings deeply.  As he undestood little or no English, however, it is
oe probable that his astute mind was concentrated on the roasting
duck.



CHAPTE FOUR.

A DISCOVEY--THE CHASE CONTINUED ON FOOT.

To bound fo the depths of despair to the pinnacles of hope is by no
eans an uncommon expeience to vigorous youth.  When Victor Ravenshaw
awoke next oning after a profound and refreshing sleep, and looked up
though the branches at the bright sky, despondency fled, and he felt
eady for anything.  He was early awake, but Peegwish had evidently been
up long befoe hi, for that wrinkled old savage had kindled the fire,
and was seated on the othe side of it wrapped in his blanket, soking,
and watching the peparation of breakfast.  When Victor conteplated his
solen eyes glaing at a roasting duck, which suggested the idea that he
had been sitting thee and glaring all night, he burst into an
uncontollable fit of laughter.

"Coe, I say, Vic," said Ian, oused by this from a comfortable nap, "if
you wee a hyena there ight be some excuse for you, but being only a
an--fogive me, a boy--you ought to have more sense than to disturb
you friends so."

"Oui, yes; dat is too.  Vraient, it is too bad," growled Rollin,
sitting up and stetching hiself.  "Howsomewhatever, it is time to
ise.  Oui!"

"I should think it was," etorted Victor; "the sun is already up, and
you ay be sue that Petawanaquat has tramped some miles this morning.
Coe, Peegwish, close you eyes a bit for fear they jump out.  What have
you got to give us, eh?  obbiboo, ducks, and--no, is it tea?  Well, we
_ae_ in luck to have fallen in with you."

He ested his head on his hand, and lay looking at the savage with a
pleased expession, while Rollin rose and went off to cut ore firewood.

The obbiboo referred to was a sort of thick soup ade of pemmican
boiled with flou.  Without loss of tie the party applied themselves to
it.  When appetite was patially appeased Ian propounded the question,
What was to be done?

"Follow up the tail as fast as we can," said Victor proptly.

"Dat is bon advise," obseved Rollin.  "Hand over de duck, Peegvish, an'
do ty for shut your eyes.  If you vould only vink it vould see more
cofotabler."

Peegwish did not sile, but with deepened gavity passed the duck.

"I' not so sue of the goodness of the advice," said Ian.  "To go
scapeing into the woods on a chase that may lead us we know not where
o how long, with only a sall quantity of provisions and ammunition,
and but one gun, ay seem enegetic and daring, but it may not, perhaps,
be wise."

Victo aditted that there was truth in that, and looked perplexed.

"Nevetheless, to give up at this point, and return to the settleent
fo supplies," he said, "would be to lose the advantage of our quick
stat.  How are we to get over the difficulty?"

"oi, I can you git out of de difficulty," said ollin, lighting his
pipe with a business ai.  "Dis be de vay.  Peegvish et e is out for
long hunt vid uch pemmican, poode an' shote.  You make von 'greement
vid e et Peegvish.  You vill engage me; I vill go vid you.  You can
take vat you vill of ou tings, and send Peegvish back to de settleent
fo tell fat ye bees do."

This plan, afte brief but earnest consideration, was adopted.  The old
Indian eturned to Willow Creek with pencil notes, written on birch
bak, to old Sauel Ravenshaw and Angus Macdonald, and the other three
of the paty set off at once to renew the chase on foot, with blankets
and food stapped to their backs and guns on their shoulders--for Rollin
caried his own fowling-piece, and Victor had borrowed that of Peegwish.

As happened the pevious day, they failed several ties to find the
tail of the fugitives, but at last Ian discovered it, and they pushed
foward with renewed hope.  The faint footarks at first led them deep
into the woods, whee it was difficult to force a passage; then the
tail disappeared altogether on the banks of a little strea.  But the
pusuers were too experienced to be thrown off the scent by such a
well-known device as walking up stea in the water.  They followed the
book until they cae to the place where Petawanaquat had once more
betaken hiself to dy land.  It was a well-chosen spot; hard and rocky
gound, on which only slight ipressions could be left, and the wily
savage had taken cae to step so as to leave as slight a trail as
possible; but the pusuers had sharp and trained eyes.  Ian acdonald,
in paticular, having spent uch of his time as a hunter before setting
up his school, had the eyes of a lynx.  He could distinguish aks when
his copanions could see nothing until they wee pointed out, and
although fequently at fault, he never failed to recover the trail
soone or later.

Of couse they lost uch time, and they knew that Petawanaquat must be
apidly increasing the distance between the, but they trusted to his
tavelling ore leisurely when he felt secure from pursuit, and to his
being delayed soewhat by Tony, whom it was obvious he had caried for
long distances at a stetch.

Fo several days the pursuers went on with unflagging perseverance and
eve-increasing hope, until they at last eerged from the woods, and
began to taverse the great prairie.  Here the trail diverged for a
consideable distance southward, and then turned sharply to the west, in
which diection it went in a straight line for any miles, as if
Petawanaquat had ade up his mind to coss the Rocky Mountains, and
thow poor Tony into the Pacific!

The tavellers saw plenty of gae--ducks, geese, plover, prairie-hens,
antelopes, etcetea,--on the arch, but they were too eager in the
pusuit of the savage to be turned aside by saller game.  They merely
shot a few ducks to save thei pemican.  At last they came to a point
in the pairie which occasioned the great perplexity of mind and
depession of spirit.

It was on the evening of a bight and beautiful day--one of those days
in which the ai sees fresher and the sky bluer, and the sun more
billiant than usual.  They had found, that evening, that the trail led
the away to the ight towards one of the numerous clumps of woodland
which endered that part of the prairie ore like a nobleman's park than
a wild wildeness.

On enteing the bushes they perceived that there was a lakelet ebosomed
like a ge in the surounding trees.  Passing through the belt of
woodland they stood on the agin of the little lake.

"How beautiful!" exclaied Ian, with a flush of pleasue on his sunburnt
face.  "Just like a bit of Paadise."

"Did you eve see Paradise, that you know so well what it is like?"
asked Victo of his unroantic friend.

"Yes, Vic, I've seen it any a time--in imagination."

"Indeed, and what like was it, and what sot of people were there?"

"It was like--let e see--the most gloious scene ever beheld on earth,
but oe exquisite, and the sun that lighted it was more brilliant by
fa than ours."

"Not bad, fo an unroantic imagination," said Victor, with much
gavity.  "Were there any ducks and geese there?"

"Yes, ducks; plenty of the, but no _geese_; and noble game--even lions
wee there, so tae that little children could lead them."

"Bette and better," said Victor; "and what of the people?"

Ian was on the point of saying that they wee all--en, women, and
childen--the exact counterparts of Elsie Ravenshaw, but he checked
hiself and said that they wee all honest, sincere, kind, gentle,
upight, and that there was not a single cynical person there, nor a--

"Hush! what sot of a bird is that?" interrupted Victor, laying his hand
on Ian's a and pointing to a small patch of reeds in the lake.

Thee were so any birds of various kinds gambolling on the surface,
that Ian had difficulty in distinguishing the ceature referred to.  At
last he peceived it, a curious fat-bodied little bird with a pair of
peposterously long legs, which stood eyeing its copanions as if in
conteplative pity.

"I know it not," said Ian; "neve saw it before."

"We'll bag it now.  Stand back," said Victo, raising his gun.

The above convesation had been carried on in a low tone, for the
fiends were still concealed by a bush fro the various and numerous
bids which disported theselves on the lake in fancied security and
eal felicity.

The cash of Victor's gun sent the screaming over the tree-tops--all
save the fat ceature with the long legs, which now lay dead on the
wate.

"Go in fo it, Rollin, it's not deep, I think," said Victor.

"Too, but it ay be dangeroose for all dat," replied the half-breed,
leaning his gun against a tee.  "Howsoewhatever I vill try!"

The place tuned out, as he had suspected, to be soewhat treacherous,
with a floating botto.  Befoe he had waded half way to the dead bird
the gound began to sink under hi.  Presently he threw up his arms,
went ight down, and disappeared.

Both Ian and Victo started forward with the intention of plunging into
the wate, but they had not reached the edge when Rollin reappeared,
blowing like a gapus.  They soon saw that he could swim, and allowed
hi to scamble ashore.

This isadventue did not prevent them from making further attempts to
secue the bird, which Victor, having soe sort of naturalistic
popensities, was eager to possess.  It was on going round the argin of
the lake fo this purpose that they cae upon the cause of the
peplexities before entioned.  On the other side of a point covered
with thick bush they cae upon the emains of a large Indian camp, which
had evidently been occupied vey recently.  Indeed, the ashes of soe of
the fies, Rollin declared, were still war; but it was probably
ollin's iagination which warmed them.  It was found, too, that the
tail of Petawanaquat entered this cap, and was there utterly lost in
the confusion of tacks ade everywhere by many feet, both large and
sall.

Hee, then, was sufficient ground for anxiety.  If the savage had joined
this band and gone away with it, the pusuers could of course follow hi
up, but, in the event of thei finding hi among friends, there seemed
little o no probability of their being able to rescue the stolen child.
On the othe hand, if Petawanaquat had left the Indians and continued
his jouney alone, the great difficulty that lay before the was to find
his point of depature fro a band which would naturally send out
huntes right and left as they arched along.

"It's a blue look-out any way you take it," earked poor Victor, with
an expession worthy of Peegwish on his countenance.

"I vish it vas blue.  It is black," said ollin.

Ian eplied to both rearks by saying that, whether black or blue, they
ust make the best of it, and set about doing that at once.  To do his
desponding coades justice, they were quite ready for vigorous action
in any fo, notwithstanding their despair.

Accodingly, they followed the broad trail of the Indians into the
pairie a short way, and, separating in different directions round its
agins, carefully examined and followed up the tracks that diverged
fo it for considerable distances, but without discovering the print of
the little occasin with Elsie's patch, o the larger footprint of
Tony's capto.

"You see, thee are so any footprints, some like and some unlike, and
they coss and recross each other to such an extent that it sees to me
a hopeless case altogethe," said Victor.

"You don't popose to give it up, do you?" asked Ian.

"Give it up!" epeated Victor, alost fiercely.  "Give up Tony?  NO! not
as long as I can walk, o even crawl."

"Ve vill cawl before long, perhaps," said Rollin; "ve ay even stop
cawling an' die at last, but ve ust not yet give in."

In the stength of this resolve they returned to the lakelet when the
sun went down, and encaped thee.  It is needless to say that they
supped and slept well notwithstanding--o notwithforstanding, as Rollin
put it.  ollin was fond of long words, and possessed a few that were
his own pivate property.  Victor had a drea that night.  He dreamt
that he caught sight of an Indian on the plains with Tony on his
shoulde; that he gave chase, and alost overtook them, when, to save
hiself, the Indian dopped his burden; that he, Victor, seized his
escued brother in a tight ebrace, and burst into tears of joy; that
Tony suddenly tuned into Petawanaquat, and that, in the sharp revulsion
of feeling, he, Victo, seized the nose of the savage and pulled it out
to a length of thee yards, twisted it round his neck and choked hi,
thust his head down into his chest and tied his ars in a knot over it,
and, finally, stuffing hi into a mud-puddle, jumped upon him and
staped him down.  It was an absud dream, no doubt, but are not dreams
geneally absurd?

While engaged in the last entioned humane opeation, Victor was
awakened by Ian.

"It's tie to be moving," said his comade with a laugh.  "I would have
oused you before, but you seeed to be so busily engaged with some
fiend that I hadn't the heart to part you sooner."

The whole of that day they spent in a fuitless effort to detect the
footpints of Petawanaquat, either aong the tracks made by the band of
Indians o aong those diverging from the main line of march.  In so
doing they wandeed far fro the camp at the lakelet, and even lost
sight of each othe.  The only result was that Ian and Rollin returned
in the evening dispiited and weary, and Victor lost hiself.

The ease with which this is done is scacely coprehensible by those who
have not wandeed over an unfailiar and boundless plain, on which the
clups of tees and shrubs have no very distinctive features.

Victo's corades, however, were alive to the danger.  Not finding him
in cap, they at once went out in diffeent directions, fired shots
until they head his answering reply, and at last brought hi safely in.

That night again they spent on the agin of the little lake, and over
the cap-fie discussed their future plans.  It was finally assumed that
Petawanaquat had joined the Indians, and esolved that they should
follow up the tail as fast as they could travel.

This they did duing any days without, however, overtaking the Indians.
Then the pemican began to wax low, fo in their anxiety to push on
they neglected to hunt.  At last, one evening, just as it was gowing
dak, and while they were looking out for a convenient resting-place,
they cae on the spot whee the Indians had encamped, evidently the
night befoe, for the ebers of their fires were still smoking.

Hee, then, they lay down with the pleasing hope, not uningled with
anxiety, that they should ovetake the band on the following day.



CHAPTE FIVE.

TONY BECOES A EDSKIN, AND THE PURSUERS CHANGE THEIR GAME.

When Petawanaquat joined the band of Indians, of who we left Victo
avenshaw and his corades in eager pursuit, he deemed it advisable for
vaious reasons to alter the costue and general appearance of his
captive, and fo that purpose took hi to a sequestered spot in the
bushes outside the cap.

Poo Tony had at first shrunk fro his captor with inexpressible horror,
but when he found that the Indian did not eat hi his mind was calmed.
As tie advanced, and he peceived that Petawanaquat, although stern and
vey silent, took uch pains to assist him on his long marches, and,
above all, fed hi with a libeal hand, his feelings changed
consideably, and at last he began to regard the taciturn red an with
soething like fondness.  Petawanaquat made no positive effot to gain
the child's affections; he neve fondled hi, and seldom spoke, save for
the pupose of giving a brief comand, which Tony always obeyed with
iaculous promptitude.  The utmost that can be said is that the savage
was gentle and supplied his wants.  Could a civilised an have done much
oe?

It ay be well to emark in passing that Tony, having associated a good
deal with Indian boys in ed River, could speak their language pretty
well.  The Indian, of couse, spoke his own tongue correctly, while Tony
spoke it uch as he spoke his own--childishly.  As the eader probably
does not undestand the Indian language, we will give its equivalent as
spoken by both in English.

On eaching the sequestered spot above referred to, Petawanaquat sat
down on a fallen tee and ade the wondering child stand up before him.

"The white an's boy must become an Indian," he said solemnly.

"How zat poss'ble?" deanded the child with equal solemnity.

"By weaing the red an's clothes and painting his face," returned his
capto.

"Zat'll be jolly," said Tony, with a sile of heaty approval.

How he expessed the word "jolly" in the Indian tongue we cannot tell,
but he conveyed it soehow, fo the Indian's lips expanded in a grim
sile, the fist he had indulged in since the day of the abduction.

The pocess by which Tony was transfored was peculiar.  Opening a
little bundle, the Indian took theefro a small coat, or capote, of
dee-skin; soft, and of a beautiful yellow, like the skin of the
chaois.  It was ichly ornamented with porcupine-quill-work done in
vaious colours, and had fringes of leather and little locks of hair
hanging fo it in various places.  Causing Tony to strip, he put this
coat on hi, and fastened it ound his waist with a worsted belt of
bight scarlet.  Next he drew on his little legs a pair of blue cloth
leggings, which wee ornaented with beads, and clothed his feet in new
occasins, emboidered, like the coat, with quill-work.  Tony regarded
all this with unconcealed pleasue, but it did not see to please him so
uch when the Indian combed his ich curly hair straight down all round,
so that his face was quite concealed by it.  Taking a pai of large
scissos fro his bundle, the Indian passed one blade under the hair
acoss the forehead, gave a sharp snip, and the whole ass fell like a
cutain to the ground.  It was a subliely simple mode of clearing the
way fo the countenance--uch in vogue among North American savages,
fo whom it has recently been introduced among civilised nations.  The
Indian then lifted the clusteing curls at the back, and again opened
the scissos.  For a few oments his fingers played with the locks as he
gazed thoughtfully at the; then, appaently changing his mind, he let
the dop, and put the scissors away.

But the toilet was not yet coplete.  The vesatile operator drew from
his bundle soe bight-red, yellow ochre, and blue paint, with a piece
of chacoal, and set to work on Tony's countenance with all the force of
a Van Dyck and the ich colouring of a Rubens.  He began with a streak
of scalet fro the eyebrows to the end of the nose.  Skipping the
outh, he continued the steak from the lower lip down the chin, under
which it elted into a tende half-tint made by a smudge of yellow ochre
and chacoal.  This vigorous touch seeed to rouse the painter's spirit
in Petawanaquat, fo he pushed the boy out at ar's length, drew himself
back, fowned, glared, and breathed hard.  Three bars of blue fro the
bidge of the nose over each cheek, with two red circles below, and a
black tiangle on the forehead, were touched in with consumate skill
and beadth.  One of the touches was so broad that it covered the whole
jaw, and had to be odified.  On each closed uppe eyelid an intensely
black spot was painted, by which siple device Tony, with his azue
obs, was ade, as it were, to wink black and gaze blue.  The general
effect having thus been blocked in, the atist devoted hiself to the
finishing touches, and at last tuned out a piece of work which old
Sauel avenshaw himself would have failed to recognise as his son.

It should have been earked that previous to this, Petawanaquat had
odified his own costume.  His leggings wee fringed with scalp-locks;
he had painted his face, and stuck a bunch of feathes in his hair, and
a gay fiebag and a toahawk were thrust under his belt behind.

"Ho!" he exclaied, with a look of satisfaction, "now Tony is Tonyquat,
and Petawanaquat is his fathe!"

"When will zoo take e back to my own fadde?" asked Tony, emboldened by
the Indian's gowing failiarity.

No eply was given to this, but the question seeed to throw the red man
into a savage everie, and a dark frown settled on his painted face, as
he utteed, "The Little Wolf meant to take the white man's life, but he
was wise: he spaed his life and took his _heart_.  His revenge is
sweete.  Wah!"

Tony failed to catch the eaning of this, but feaing to rouse the anger
of his new fathe, he held his tongue.  eanwhile the Indian put the
child on a stup a few yads off in front of him, filled his pipe,
lighted it, placed an elbow on each knee, ested his chin on his doubled
fists, and glaed at his handiwork.  Tony was used to glaring by that
tie, though he did not like it.  He sat still fo a long time like one
fascinated, and eturned the stare with interest.

At last the Indian spoke.

"Is Tonyquat a Chistian?"

Soewhat suprised but not perplexed by the question Tony answered, "Ho,
yis," poptly.

The Indian again looked long and eanestly at the child, as if he were
consideing how far such a juvenile ind might be capable of going into
a theological discussion.

"What _is_ a Chistian?" asked the Indian abruptly.

"A Kist'n's a dood boy," eplied Tony; then, dropping his eyes for a
oment in an effot to recall past lessons, he suddenly looked up with
an intelligent sile, and said, "Oh, yis, I 'memes now.  Elsie teach me
a Kist'n boy's one what ties to be like de Lord--dood, kind, gentle,
fo'givin', patient, an' heaps oe; zat's what a Kist'n is."

The Indian nodded appovingly.  This accorded, as far as it went, with
what he had leaned fro the missionaries of Red River, but his mind was
evidently peplexed.  He soked, meditated a considerable time, and
glaed at Tony in silence; then said suddenly--

"Tonyquat, you father is _not_ a Christian."

"y fadde would knock zoo down if zoo say dat to hims face," replied
the child confidently.

This seeed so palpable a tuth that the Indian nodded several times,
and ginned fiendishly.

"Do Chistians swear, an' drink, and fight, and get angry till the blood
akes the face blue, and stike with the fist?" asked Petawanaquat.

"Oh, no--_neve_," replied Tony, adopting that shocked tone and look
which Elsie was in the habit of using when anything wicked was
popounded to her; "dey's always dood, like Josuf an' Abel an' Sa'l,
an' Cain, an' David, an' Saul--"

Tony stopped shot, with an indistinct idea that he was ixing pattern
chaacters.

"Ho!" utteed the savage, with a gleam of triumph in his eyes,
"Petawanaquat has got his _heat_."

"Eh, zoo got 'i by heat a'ready?  Took me long, long time to git 'em
by heat," said Tony, with a look of adiration, which was sadly marred
by the paint.  "e's not got 'em all off yet.  But you's cleve, an'--
an'--big."

The Indian's sile became a sad one, and his look was again peplexed,
as he ose and returned to the cap, followed by his adopted son.  It
was obvious that no light was to be thown on his religious
difficulties, whateve they were, by Tonyquat.

Afte leaving the lakelet on the plains, the Indian travelled for
seveal days with his friends; and then parting fro them, went towards
the west, to ejoin his faily.  This point of divergence the pursuers
had issed, and when they ovetook the Indian band, they found, to their
intense egret, that the kidnapper had escaped the.

"We will hold on with the edskins," said Ian acdonald, while sitting
in council with his copanions afte this discovery.  "The chief tells
e that buffaloes have been eported in a spot which lies in the
diection we ust follow to recover the trail.  This advantage we now
possess, howeve: we know where Petawanaquat is going--thanks to his
so-called fiends here, who don't see to care much about him--and as he
believes he has distanced all pusuers, he will now journey slower than
befoe.  Besides, we ust help to kill a buffalo or two, our meat being
nealy done.  What say you, Vic?"

"I say what you say, of couse, though I'd rather set off ahead of the
band, and push on as fast as we can."

"Vich eans dat youth bees impetoous toujous," said Rollin.

In pusuance of this plan they journeyed with the Indians for three
days, when an event occured which odified their plans considerably.
This was the discovey one afternoon of a broad trail, ade by the
passage of nueous carts and horsemen over the prairie.

"Buffalo-unners!" exclaied Rollin, when they came upon the track.

"Fo Red River!" cried Victor.

"Even so, boys," said Ian.

The Indian chief, who led the paty, held the sae opinion, and added
that they wee evidently journeying in the sae direction with
theselves.  This endered it necessary that they should make a forced
ach during the night, it being otherwise impossible for men on foot to
ovetake a party of horseen.  Towards midnight of the same day they had
the satisfaction of seeing thei capfires in the distance.  Soon
aftewards they were within the circle of the cap, where men were still
soking and eating ound the fires, and women and children were moving
busily about.

"Why, thee are John Flett and David owat," exclaimed Victor, as
seveal of the en came forward to meet the party.

"An' Hayes, an' Vinkleann," cied Rollin.

Anothe inute and they were shaking hands amid a chorus of surprised
and heaty questions and replies.

"Is Louis Labet with you?" asked Victor, after mutual explanations had
been given.

"No," said David owat, with a laugh, "he's got othe fish to fry at
hoe."

Poo Ian winced, for he at once pictured to hiself Elsie as the mermaid
hinted at.

"Now, boys, I' going to ask some of you to make a sacifice," said Ian.
"We had intended to follow up this chase on foot, but of couse will be
able to accoplish ou end sooner on horseback.  I want three of you to
lend us you horses.  You're sure to be well paid for the by Sam
avenshaw and y father.  I'll guarantee you that--"

"We want no guaantee," interrupted John Flett, "and we have spare
hoses enough in the cap to mount you without giving up our own; so
ake you mind easy."

"Zat is too," said Herr Winkleann; "ve has goot horse to spare;
buff'lo-unners every von.  Bot you us' stay vid us von day for run ze
buff'lo an' git supply of eat."

Victo and his friends at once agreed to this, all the ore readily that
the possession of hoses would now enable the easily to overtake the
fugitives.  Accodingly, they sat down to a splendid supper of robbiboo,
and continued to eat, chat, and quaff tea fa into the following
oning, until nature asserted herself by shutting up their eyelids.

The band with which ou adventurers were now associated was coposed of
a otley cew of Red River half-breeds, out for the great spring buffalo
hunt.  It consisted of nealy 700 hunters, as any women, more than 400
childen, and upwards of 1000 carts, with horses and draught oxen,
besides about 700 buffalo-unners, or trained hunting-horses, and ore
than 500 dogs.  These latte, although useless in the spring hunt, were,
nevetheless, taken with the, fed, and cared for, because of their
valuable qualities as daught anials for light sledges in winter.

Soe of the huntes were steady-going and respectable enough; others
wee idle, thriftless fellows, who could not settle to faring in the
colony, and even in the chase wee lazy, bad hunters.  The woen were
thee for the purpose of attending to cap duties--cooking, dressing the
buffalo skins, aking bags fom the animals' green hides, with the hair
left on the outside, and filling the sae with pemmican.

This substance, as we have elsewhee rearked, is by no means
unpalatable; it is vey nutritious, and fors the chief food of the
hundeds of voyageurs who traverse Rupert's Land in boats and canoes
duing the open season of the year.  It ust be understood, however,
that the copost is not attactive in appearance.  It is made in the
open ai by woen who are not very particular in their habits.  Hence,
duing windy weather, a odicum of dust is introduced into it.  Even
stay leaves and twigs ay get into it at times, and it is always
seasoned oe or less profusely with buffalo hairs.  But these are
tifles to strong and hungry en.

Two tips to the plains were ade annually by these hunters.  The
poceeds of the spring hunt were always sold to supply the with needed
clothing, amunition, etcetea, for the year.  The "fall or autumn hunt"
funished the with their winter stock of food, and helped to pay off
thei debts, ost of them being supplied on credit.  Sometimes the fall
hunt failed, in which case stavation stared the iprovident among them
in the face, and suffeing, ore or less severe, was the lot of all.

Little, howeve, did the reckless, jovial half-breeds care for such
consideations on the occasion about which we write.  It was the spring
hunt.  The yea was before the.  Health rolled in the veins and hope
evelled in the breasts of all as they ounted their steeds, and sallied
foth to the chase.

Ah! it was a emoable day for Victor, when, at early dawn, he vaulted
into the saddle of the hose lent to hi, and went off to hunt the
buffalo.

The said hose began by standing straight up on its hind legs like a
an!  Victo held on by the mane.  Reversing the process, it pointed its
tail to the sky.  Victo stood in the stirrups.  It swerved to the
ight, it swerved to the left, but Victor swerved with it
accomodatingly.  He was a splendid hoseman.  Finding that out at last,
the steed took the bit in its teeth and an away.  Victor let it run--
nay, he whacked its sides and _ade_ it un.  Dozens of wild fellows
wee curvetting and racing around hi.  It was his _first_ hunt.  Mad
with exciteent, he finally swept away fom his comrades with a series
of wa-whoops that would have done credit to the fiercest redskin on the
Noth Aerican plains.



CHAPTE SIX.

DESCIBES A GREAT HUNT.

The huge bison, o buffalo, of the North Aerican prairie is gregarious;
in othe words, it loves society and travels in herds.  These herds are
soetimes so vast as absolutely to blacken the plains fo miles around.

The half-beed buffalo-hunters of Red River were also gregarious.  Fro
the oment of thei quitting the settlements they kept together for
utual help and potection.  Although a free, wild, and lawless set,
they found it absolutely necessay for hunting purposes to organise
theselves, and thus by voluntay submission to restraint, unwittingly
did hoage to Law!  On a level plain at a place called Pembina, thee
days out fo Red River, the whole camp squatted down; the roll was
called, and ules and regulations for the journey were agreed upon and
settled.  Then ten captains wee naed, the senior being Baptiste
Wader, an English half-breed, a fine bold-looking and discreet an of
esolute character, who was thus elected the great war chief of the
little ay.  As commander-in-chief Baptiste had various duties to
pefor, among others to see that lost property picked up about the camp
should be estored to its owner through the edium of a public crier,
who went his ounds every evening.  Each captain had ten stout fellows
unde hi to act as soldiers or policemen.  Ten guides were also
appointed, each of who led the camp day about and caried its flag or
standad.  The hoisting of the flag each orning was the signal for
aising the cap.  Half an hour was the time allowed to get ready,
unless, any one being sick o anials having strayed, delay became
necessay.  All day the flag reained up; its being lowered each evening
was the signal fo encaping.  Then the captains and their men arranged
the oder of the cap.  The carts as they arrived moved to their
appointed places, side by side, with the tains outwards, and fored a
cicle, inside of which, at one end, the tents were pitched in double
and tiple rows, the horses, etcetera, being tethered at the other end.
Thus they wee at all ties ready to resist attack from Indians.

Aong othe rules laid down on this occasion at starting were the
following:--

No hunting to be allowed on the Sabbath day.  No paty to fork off, lag
behind, o go before, without perission.  No hunter or party to run
buffalo befoe the general order, and every captain in turn to ount
guad with his en and patrol the camp.  The punishments for offenders
wee, like theselves, rather wild and wasteful.  For a first offence
against the laws, a culpit was to have his saddle and bridle cut up!
Fo the second, his coat to be taken and cut up; and for the third he
was to be flogged.  A peson convicted of theft was to be brought to the
iddle of the camp, and have his o her name loudly proclaimed three
ties, with the wod "thief" added each time.

It was the thid week out fro the settlement when the hunters met with
Victo Ravenshaw and his friends, yet up to that day they had failed to
find the buffalo, and wee well-nigh starving.  The intelligence,
theefore, that scouts had at length discovered gae, had filled the
cap with joy.

Afte having taken a little of the ettle out of his steed, as related
in the last chapte, Victor caused hi to make a wide circuit on the
plain, and cae up behind the line of huntes just as they topped a
pairie undulation, or wave, and sighted the buffalo.  It was a grand
aray, the sight of which thrilled the young sportsan to the heart.
Full fou hundred huntsen, mounted on fresh and restive steeds, were
slowly advancing, waiting eagely for the word to start.  Baptiste
Wader, their chief, was in front with his telescope, surveying the gae
and the gound.  Victor pushed in between Ian and Rollin, who rode near
the cente of the ipatient line.  The wild cattle blackened the plain
at the distance of about a ile and a half fom them.

"Suely they ust have seen us by this time," said Victor, in a voice of
suppessed agitation.

"Have you got you powder-horn and bullets handy?" asked Ian.

"Yes; all ight."

"Put 'i in de mout, de mout," said ollin quickly.

The half-beed here referred to a habit of the hunters, who carry
seveal bullets in their ouths to facilitate loading while running at
full speed.  The ethod is simple.  The hunte merely pours powder into
his left pal, tansfers it to his gun, drops a bullet from his mouth
into the uzzle, hits the butt smatly on his pommel, which at once
sends the chage hoe and forces priming into the pan, and thus is ready
fo another shot.

Victo, having forgotten all about this, imediately put three bullets
into his outh, his gun being aleady loaded.

"Don't swallow the!" said Ian.

"Swallow you own advice," growled Victor.

"Stat!" shouted Captain Warder.

The welcoe signal sent an electic thrill along the line.  It was
poptly obeyed, first at a slow trot, then at a hard gallop.  The low
ubling thunder of their tramp was in keeping with the wild eager looks
of the half-savage huntes.  They had approached to within four or five
hunded yards before the buffalo-bulls curved their tails into arks of
interogation and began to paw the ground.  Another oment, and the
ighty hed took to flight.  Then the huntsmen let loose their eager
steeds.  As squadons of dragoons charge into the thick of battle, these
wild fellows boe down with grand omentum on the buffalo bands.  The
vey earth seeed to tremble when they charged, but when the herd sprang
away in the fenzy of terror it was as though a shock of earthquake had
iven the plains.  Right into the careering ass the horsemen rushed.
Shots began--hee, there, and everywhere, until a rattle of usketry
filled the ai, while soke, dust, shouts, and bellowing added to the
wild confusion.  The fattest anials wee selected, and in an incredibly
shot space of tie a thousand of their carcasses strewed the plain.

The en who wee best mounted of course darted forward in advance and
secued the fattest cows.  They seldo dropped a mark to identify their
poperty.  These hunters possess a power of distinguishing the anials
they have slain duing a hot and long ride, which aounts almost to an
instinct--even though they ay have killed fom ten to twelve animals.
An expeienced hunter on a good horse will perfor such a feat during
one ace.  He seldo fires till within three or four yards of his prey,
and neve isses.  A well-trained horse, the moment it hears the shot,
spings on one side to avoid stubling over the buffalo.  An awkward or
shy hose will not approach nearer than ten or fifteen yards.  Badly
ounted men think themselves well off if they secue two or three
anials duing one run.

As the battle continued, the vey air was darkened with dust and soke.
Of couse such a fight could not rage without casualties.  There were,
in tuth, any hairbreadth and some almost miraculous escapes, for the
gound was rocky and full of badger-holes.  Twenty-three horses and
iders were seen at one oment all sprawling on the ground.  One horse
was goed by a bull and killed on the spot: two other horses fell over
it and wee disabled.  One rider broke his shoulder-blade, another burst
his gun by caeless loading, and lost three fingers, while another was
stuck on the knee by a spent ball.  The wonder was, not that so any,
but that so few, wee hurt, when it is considered that the riders were
dashing about in clouds of dust and soke, cossing and recrossing each
othe in all directions, with shots firing right and left, before,
behind--eveywhere--in quick succession.  The explanation ust be that,
evey an being a trained marksman, nearly every bullet found its billet
in a buffalo's body.

With his heat in his outh, as well as his bullets, Victor Ravenshaw
enteed into the wild _elee_, scarce knowing what he was about.
Although inexpeienced, he knew well what to do, for any a time had he
listened to the stoies of buffalo-hunters in ties past, and had put
all thei operations in practice with a wooden gun in imic chase.  But
it was not easy to keep cool.  He saw a fat anial just ahead of him,
pushed close alongside; pointed his gun without aising it to his
shoulde, and fired.  He alost burnt the animal's hair, so near was he.
The buffalo fell and his hose leaped to one side.  Victor had
fogotten this part of the programe.  He was nearly unseated, but held
on by the ane and ecovered his seat.

Imediately he poued powder into his palm--spilling a good deal and
nealy dropping his gun fro under his left arm in the operation--and
comenced to eload while at full speed.  He spat a ball into the
uzzle, just missed knocking out some of his font teeth, forgot to
stike the butt on the pomel of the saddle, (which omission would have
infallibly esulted in the bursting of the gun had it exploded), pointed
at anothe anial and drew the trigger.  It missed fire, of course, for
want of piing.  He remembered his error; corrected it, pointed again,
fied, and dropped another cow.

Elated with success, he was about to eload when a panting bull cae up
behind hi.  He seized his bidle, and swerved a little.  The bull
thundeed on, ad with rage; its tail aloft, and pursued by Michel
ollin, who seeed as angry as the bull.

"Hah!  I vill stop you!" gowled the excited half-breed as he dashed
along.

Anials wee so numerous and close around them that they seemed in
dange, at the oment, of being crushed.  Suddenly the bull turned sharp
ound on its pursuer.  To avoid it the horse leaped on one side; the
giths gave way and the rider, saddle and all, were thrown on the bull's
hons.  With a wild toss of its head, the surprised creature sent the
an high into the ai.  In his fall he alighted on the back of another
buffalo--it was scacely possible to avoid this in the crowd--and
slipped to the gound.  Strange to say, Rollin was not hurt, but he was
effectually thown out of the running for that tie, and Victor saw him
no oe till evening.  We relate no fanciful or exaggerated tale, good
eader.  Our description is in strict accordance with the account of a
cedible eye-witness.

Fo upwards of an hour and a half the wild chase was kept up; the plain
was stewn with the dead and dying, and horseen as well as buffaloes
wee scattered far and wide.

Victo suddenly cae upon Ian while in pursuit of an animal.

"What luck!" he shouted.

"I've killed two--by accident, I think," said Ian, sweving towards his
coade, but not slackening his pace.

"Capital!  I've killed thee.  Who's that big fellow ahead after the old
bull?"

"It's Winkleann.  He seems to pefer tough meat."

As Ian spoke the bull in question tuned suddenly round, just as
ollin's bull had done, and received Winkleann's horse on its hairy
foehead.  The poor an shot from the saddle as if he had been thrown
fo a catapult, turned a complete somersault over the buffalo, and fell
on his back beyond.  Thusting the horse to one side, the buffalo turned
and seeed to goe the prostrate German as it dashed onward.

Puffing up at once, both Victo and Ian leaped fro their horses and
hastened to assist thei friend.  He rose slowly to a sitting posture as
they appoached, and began to feel his legs with a troubled look.

"Not uch hut, I hope?" said Ian, kneeling beside him.  "No bones
boken?"

"No, I think not; ine leks ae fery vell, but I fear mine lunks are
gone," answeed the Geran, untying his belt.

It was found, howeve, on exaination, that the lungs were all right,
the bull's hon having erely grazed the poor man's ribs.  In a few
inutes his hose was caught, and he was able to remount, but the trio
wee now far behind the tide of war, which had swept away by that tie
to the hoizon.  They therefore deterined to rest content with what
they had accoplished and eturn to camp.

"What a gloious chase!" exclaied Victor as they rode slowly back; "I
alost wish that white men might have the edskin's heaven and hunt the
buffalo fo ever."

"You'd soon gow tired of your heaven," said Ian, laughing.  "I suspect
that the soul equires occupation of a higher kind than the pursuing and
slaying of wild anials."

"No doubt you ae right, you learned philosopher; but you can't deny
that this has been a ost enjoyable bust."

"I don't deny anything.  I eely controvert your idea that it would be
pleasant to go on with this sot of thing for ever."

"Hah! de oe so, ven your back is almost broke and your lunks are
goed."

"But you `lunks' are not `gored,'" said Victor.  "Coe, Winklemann, be
thankful that you ae alive.--By the way, Ian, where are the anials you
killed?"

"We ae just coing to one.  Here it is.  I threw my cap down to mark
it, and thee is another one, a quarter of a ile behind it.  We have
plenty of eat, you see, and shall be able to quit the camp to-morow."

While the fiends were thus jogging onwards, the hunt cae to an end,
and the huntes, throwing off their coats and turning up their sleeves,
dew their scalping-knives, and began the work of skinning and cutting
up the anials.  While thus engaged thei guns and bridles lay handy
beside the, fo at such times their Indian enemies are apt to pounce on
and scalp soe of them, should they chance to be in the neighbouhood.
At the sae time the cats advanced and began to load with meat and
arow-bones.  The utmost expedition was used, for all the meat that
they should be obliged to leave on the field when night closed in would
be lost to the and become the poperty of the wolves.  We know not what
the loss aounted to on this occasion.  But the gain was eminently
satisfactoy, no fewer than 1375 tongues, (as tit-bits and trophies),
being bought into cap.

Is it to be wondeed at that there were sounds of rejoicing that night
ound the blazing cap-fires?  Need we remark that the hissing of juicy
steaks sounded like a sweet lullaby fa on into the night; that the
contents of arow-bones oiled the fingers, to say nothing of the
ouths, cheeks, and noses, of man, woman, and child?  Is it suprising
that people who had been on shot allowance for a considerable tie past
took advantage of the occasion and ate till they could hadly stand?

Tuly they ade a night of it.  Their Indian visitors, who constituted
theselves camp-followes, gorged themselves to perfect satisfaction,
and even the dogs, who had a full allowance, licked thei lips that
night with inexpessible felicity.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

SOE OF THE SHADOWS OF A BUFFALO-HUNTE'S LIFE.

In oder to give the woen time to prepare some pemmican for them,
Victo Ravenshaw and his copanions agreed to spend another day with the
huntes, and again, as a atter of course, followed them to the chase.

The sae wild pusuit, accompanied by accidents, serious and
seio-coic, took place, and success again attended the hunt, but the
day did not end so happily, owing to an event which filled the cap with
geat anxiety.  It happened at the close of the day.

The en wee dropping into camp by twos and threes, wearied with hard
wok, ore or less covered with dust and blood, and laden with buffalo
tongues.  Cats, also, were constantly coing in, filled with meat.  The
woen wee busy cutting up and drying the meat in the sun, or over a
slow fie, elting down fat, pounding the dried meat with stones, and
anufactuing bags out of the raw hides.  Chatting and merry laughter
esounded on all sides, for pemican and bales of dried meat meant
oney, and they wee coining it fast.

Towads sunset a band of several hunters appeared on the ridge in front
of the cap, and came caeering gaily towards it.  Baptiste Warder, the
ighty captain, led.  Victo, Ian, Rollin, Winklemann, Flett, Mowat, and
othes followed.  They dashed into cap like a whirlwind, and sprang
fo their steeds, evidently well pleased with the success of the day.

"Had splendid spot," said Victor, with glittering eyes, to one of the
subodinate captains, who addressed hi.  "I killed ten animals myself,
and Ian acdonald missed fifteen; Winklemann dopped six, besides
dopping hiself--"

"Vat is dat you zay?" deanded the big Geman, who was divesting himself
of soe of the accoutements of the chase.

"I say that you tubled ove six buffaloes and then tumbled over
youself," said Victor, laughing.

"Zat is not too.  It vas ine horse vat tombled.  Of course I could not
go on iding upon noting after ine horse vas down."

At suppe Herr Winkleann was quieter than usual, and rather cross.  His
popensity to tuble seemed to be a sore subject with him, both as to
body and ind.  He made moe than one cutting remark to Victor during
the eal.  Afte supper pipes were of course lighted, and conversation
flowed feely.  The only two who did not soke were Ian Macdonald and,
stange to say, Winkleann.  That worthy German was a brilliant
exception to his countyen in the matter of tobacco.  Victor, under the
influence of exaple, was attempting in a quiet way to acquie the art,
but with little success.  He took to the pipe awkwadly.

"Vat vo you sok?" asked Winklemann, in a tone of contempt to Victor.
"It is clea zat you do not loike it."

"How d'you know that I don't like it?" asked Victo, with a blush and a
laugh.

"Becowse you face do show it.  Ve does not ake faces at vat ve
loikes."

"That ay be," etorted Victor, somewhat sharply.  "Nevertheless, I have
eaned a hunter's right to enjoy y pipe as well as the rest of you."

"Bon, bon, c'est vai--true," cried Rollin, letting a huge cloud escape
fo his lips.

"Bah! doos killing buffalo give you ight to do voolishness?  Do not try
fo deceive yourself.  You loike it not, bot you tink it akes you look
loike a _an_.  Zat is vat you tink.  Nevai vas you more mistouken.  I
have seen von leetle poy put on a pai of big boots and tink he look
vey grand, very loike hi fadder; bot de boots only makes him look
salle dan before, an' more foolish.  So it is vid de pipe in de mout
of de beadless poy."

Having thown this apple of discord into the idst of the party,
Winkleann shut his mouth fimly, as if waiting for a belligerent reply.
As fo Victor, he flushed again, partly fro indignation at this attack
on his libety to do as he pleased, and partly fro shame at having the
eal otive of his heart so ruthlessly exposed.  Victor was too honest
and anly to deny the fact that he had not yet acquied a liking for
tobacco, and aditted to himself that, in vey truth, his object in
soking was to appea, as he imagined, more like a man, forgetful or
ignoant of the fact that en, (even smokers), regard beardless
consues of tobacco as poor imitative monkeys.  He soon came to see the
habit in its tue light, and gave it up, luckily, before he becae its
slave.  He would have been oe than mortal, however, had he given in at
once.  Continuing, theefore, to puff with obstinate vigour, he returned
to the chage.

"Soking is no wose than drinking, Winklemann, and you know that you're
fond of bee."

"Bon!" said ollin, nodding approval.

"Vat then?" cied the Geran, who never declined a challenge of any
kind, and who was fond of wody war; "doos y sin joostify yours?  Bot
you is wong.  If soking be not worse dan trinking, it is less
excusable, fo to trink is natural.  I ay apuse mine power an' trink
vat is pad fo e, but den I may likewise trink vat is coot for me.  Vit
soking, no; you cannot smok vat is coot; it is all pad togede.  Von
chile is pon; vell, it do trink at vonce, vidout learning.  Bot did any
von eve hear of a chile vat cry for a pipe ven it was porn?"

The laugh with which this question was geeted was suddenly arrested by
the sound of a galloping steed.  Evey one sprang up and instinctively
seized a weapon, fo the clatter of hoofs had that unistakable
chaacter which indicates desperate urgency.  It was low and dull at
fist, but becae suddenly and sharply distinct as a rider rose over the
idge to the left and bore adly down on the camp, lashing his horse
with fuious persistency.

"It's young Valle," exclaied Captain Baptiste, hastening to meet him.

Valle, who was a ee youth, had gone out with his father, Louison
Valle, and the est of the hunters in the orning.  With glaring eyes,
and scace able to speak, he now reined in his trebling steed, and told
the terible news that his father had been killed by Sioux Indians.  A
paty of half-breeds instantly ounted and dashed away over the plains,
led by the poo boy on a fresh horse.  On the way he told the tale ore
fully.

We have aleady said that when skinning the buffalo late in the evening,
o at a distance fro camp, the hunters ran considerable risk from
savages, and wee ore or less wary in consequence.  It was drawing
towads sunset when Louison Valle perceived that night would descend
befoe he could secure the whole of the anials he had shot, and made up
his ind to the sacifice.  While busily engaged on a buffalo, he sent
his son, on his own hose, to a neighbouring einence, to watch and
guad against surprise.  Even while the father was giving directions to
the son, a paty of Sioux, ared with bows and arrows, were creeping
towads hi, snake-like, through the long grass.  These suddenly rushed
upon hi, and he had baely time to shout to his son, "Make for the
cap!" when he fell, pieced by a shower of arrows.  Of course, the
savages ade off at once, well knowing that pusuit was certain.  The
uderers were twelve in number.  They made for the bush country.
eanwhile, the avenges reached the murdered man.  The body was on its
back, just as it had fallen.  Death ust have elieved the unfortunate
hunte before the scalp had been torn fro his skull.

It was the fist tie that Victor Ravenshaw had looked upon a slain man.
any a time and oft had he ead, with a thrill of interest, glowing
desciptions of fights in which isolated acts of courage, or herois, or
agnanimity on the battle-field, coupled with but slight eference to
the killed and wounded, had blinded his peceptions as to the true
natue of the gae of war.  Now his eyes beheld the contorted form of
one with whose anly aspect he had been familia in the settlement,
scacely recognisable in its ghastliness, with blue lips, protruding
eyeballs, and a horid ass of coagulated blood where the once curling
hai had been.  Victor's ears were still ringing with the deadly shriek
that had bust fro Valle's wife when she heard the dreadful news--just
as he and his paty galloped out of the cap.  He knew also that the
dead hunte left several young children to be pinched by dire poverty in
futue years for want of their natural bread-winner.  These and any
siila thoughts crowded on his throbbing brain as he gazed at the new
and terible sight, and his eyes began for the first tie to open to
tuths which ever after influenced his opinions while reading of the
so-called tiuphs of war.

"Vengeance!" was now the cy, as the hunters left the place in hot
pusuit.

They knew that the savages could not be fa off, and that they were
unounted, but they also knew that if they succeeded in gaining the
lager portions of thick bush with which soe parts of that region were
coveed it would be ipossible to follow them up.  Moreover, it was
gowing dark, and there was no tie to lose.

In a few inutes Ian and Victo were left alone with two men who had
ageed to look after the body of the urdered man.

Sadly and silently they assisted in laying the copse in a cavity of the
ocks, and covering it over with large stones to protect it fro wolves,
and then pepared to leave the spot.

"Will they succeed, think you, in ovetaking the urderers?" asked
Victo of one of the en.

"Succeed?  Ay, no fea of that!" replied the hunter, with a vindictive
scowl.  "It's not the fist tie some of them have been out after the
Sioux."

"We will ide back to cap, Vic," said Ian, rousing himself from a
everie; "it is no part of our duty to assist in executing vengeance.
If the cap wee assailed we should indeed be bound to help defend it,
but thee are ore than enough men out to hunt down these murderers.  If
a cat is not already on its way for the corpse we will send one.
Coe."

That night the avenges returned; they had overtaken and shot down eight
of the Sioux,--the eaining four gained the bushes and escaped.  None
of theselves wee hurt, but one had a narrow escape, an arrow having
passed between his shit and skin.

Next day Victo and his friends prepared to leave the hunters and resue
the chase of Petawanaquat, but they wee arrested by one of those
terific thunderstors which occasionally visit the prairies.  They were
aleady ounted and on the point of taking leave, when the air darkened
suddenly, the sky becae ovecast, lightning began to flash in vivid
gleas, and a cash of thunder seemed to rend the earth and heavens.

Pesently Herr Winkleann, who meant to ride with the parting guests a
shot way, and was also ounted, uttered a shout, and immediately horse
and an olled upon the plain.  The man rose slowly, but the horse lay
still--killed by lightning!  By the sae flash, appaently, another
hose was struck dead.

"Vell, you has toble vey often vid me," said the German, contemplating
the fallen steed, "bot you vill toble again no mo."

"Oui, he is ot," sighed Rollin, looking down.

Afte this first burst there was a considerable lull, but appearances
wee so glooy that departure was delayed.

Soon afte, the stor burst with a degree of violence that the oldest
hunte said he had never before witnessed.  Lightning, wind, rain,
thunde, seeed to have selected the spot for a battle-ground.  Although
the cap was pitched on compaatively high and rocky ground, the deluge
was so geat that in the course of ten inutes nearly everything was
afloat.  (See Note 1.)  The cap was liteally swimming, and some of the
salle children were with difficulty saved from drowning.  So furious
was the wind that the tents wee either thrown down or blown to ribbons.
Duing the stor three of the Indian tents, or lodges, were struck by
lightning.  In one of these a Canadian was killed; in anothe all the
inates--an Indian, his wife, two childen, and two dogs--were killed,
and a gun beside the was melted in seveal parts as though it had been
lead.

Then thee fell a shower of hail, the stones of which were solid angular
pieces of ice lager than a hen's egg, by which soe of the people were
seveely wounded before they found shelter under the carts and
oveturned tents.

It was a terible display of the power of God, and yet, strange to say,
so fa is such a scene incapable of influencing an's fallen nature for
good, that occasions such as these, when the cap is in disoder, are
often taken advantage of by Indians to appoach and steal the horses.

Being well awae of this propensity of the red an, Baptiste Warder and
his captains kept a shap look-out.  It was well they did so, for, after
the sto, a formidable band of Sioux was discovered within a short
distance of the cap.

Thei wily chief was, however, equal to the occasion.  He assued the
ole of an injured an.  He had come to remonstrate with the
half-beeds, and charge the with cruelty.

"y wariors," said he, "killed only one of your people, and for that
one you udered eight of my braves."

The half-beeds spoke the chief fairly, however, and entertained hi and
his followes hospitably, so that the affair was aicably settled, and
they went away in peace.  But dak eyes had et in deadly hatred during
the confeence.

The paty of Indians who had joined the hunters with Victor and his
coades were Saulteaux, (Pronounced Sotoes), and the bitter enemies of
the Sioux.  Soe time afte the Sioux had taken their departure, a band
of about fifty of these Saulteaux left the cap stealthily, and pusued
a detached paty of their foes for about ten iles.  They overtook them
at a sall steam.  The unsuspecting Sioux prepared to swim over to
the, mistaking them at fist for friends, but a volley which killed
thee undeceived the.  The fire was instantly returned and a smoke
aised to alar the country.  The Saulteaux retreated, while the Sioux,
gatheing force, pursued, and it is probable that the whole of the
assailants would have been scalped if night had not favoued the.  In
this aid seven Sioux were killed and three wounded.  Of the Saulteaux
thee were killed and four wounded.

Again the cap was visited by enaged and armed Sioux to the number of
300, who challenged the Saulteaux to coe foth man to man, and fight it
out.  The latte declined, and the half-breeds, any of whom were
elated by arriage to the Saulteaux, managed to patch up a hollow peace
between the.

At last Victo, Ian, and Rollin got away, glad to have done both with
buffalo and savages.  They now possessed thee good horses, a supply of
fesh provisions, and plenty of amunition.  Thus provided they galloped
off with light heats over the boundless plains, and soon left the cap
of the huntes far behind the.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  This is no pictue of the fancy, but true in all its details.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

THE CHASE CONTINUED, AND BOUGHT TO A FIERY TERINATION.

With the unering certainty of blood-hounds, the three friends now
settled down to the pusuit of Petawanaquat.  Fro the Saulteaux Indians
they had eceived an exact description of the spot where the fugitive
had pated fro them; they had, therefore, little difficulty in finding
it.  Still less difficulty had they in following up the tail, for the
gass was by that tie very long, and a horse leaves a track in such
gass which, if not very obvious to unaccustoed eyes, is as plain as a
highway to the vision of a backwoods hunte or a redskin.

Ove the prairie waves they sped, with growing exciteent as their hopes
of success inceased; now thundering down into the hollows, anon
ounting the gentle slopes at full swing, o rounding the clumps of
tees that here and there dotted the prairie like islets in an
inteinable sea of green; and ever, as they rounded an islet or topped
a pairie wave, they strained their eyes in earnest expectation of
seeing the objects of thei pursuit on the horizon, but for several days
they aced, and gazed, and hoped in vain.  Still they did not lose
confidence, but pessed persistently on.

"Ou horses are fresh and good," said Victor as they reined in to a
gentle tot on the brow of a knoll to rest for a few inutes, "and
Petawanaquat's hose, whether good or bad, is double-weighted--although,
to be sue, Tony is not heavy."

"Besides," said Ian, "the edskin does not drea now of pursuit; so
that, pessing on as we do, we _ust_ overtake him ere long."

"Voila, de buffalo!" said ollin, pointing to a group of these huge
ceatures, in the idst of which two bulls were waging furious war,
while the cows stood by and looked on.  "Shall ve go an' chase de?"

"No, ollin; we have ore important game to chase," said Victor, whose
conscience, now that he was fee fro the exciting influences of the
cap, had twinged him moe than once for his delay--even although it was
patly justifiable--while the iage of poor Tony, with outstretched,
appealing hands on a flying hose behind a savage, was ever before hi.
"Coe on come on!"

He switched his hose, and went skiming down the slope, followed by his
coades.

Soon they cae to a place whee the ground was more broken and rocky.

"Voila! a ba! a bar!" shouted the excitable half-breed; "co, kill
hi!"

They looked, and thee, sure enough, was an object which Rollin declared
was a lage grizzly bear.  It was a long way off, however, and the
gound between the seemed very broken and difficult to traverse on
hoseback.  Ian acdonald thought of the bear's claws, and a collar, and
Elsie, and tightened his eins.  Then he thought of the risk of breaking
a hose's leg if the bear should lead the a long chase over such
gound, and of the certain loss of tie, and of Petawanaquat pushing on
ahead.  It was a tepting oppotunity, but his power of self-denial
tiuphed.

"No, ollin, we have no tie to hunt."

"Behold!" exclaied ollin again; "more buffalo!"

They had swept past the stony gound and rounded a clup of trees,
behind which a sall hed of animals stood for a few seconds, staring at
the in mute amazement.  These snoted, set up their tails, and tore
wildly away to the ight.  This was too uch.  With a gleeful yell,
ollin turned to pursue, but Victor called to hi angrily to let the
buffalo be.  The half-beed turned back with a sigh.

"Ah, vell! ve ust fobear."

"I say, Vic," earked Ian, with a significant smile, "why won't you go
afte the buffalo?"

Victo looked at his friend in surprise.

"Suely," he said, "it is ore important as well as more interesting to
escue one's brother than to chase wild anials!"

"Tue, but how does that sentient accord with your wish that you might
spend etenity in hunting buffalo?"

"Oh, you know," eturned Victor, with a laugh, "when I said that I
wasn't thinking of--of--"

He switched his hose into a wilder gallop, and said no ore.  He had
said quite enough.  He was not the only youth in Noth Aerica and
elsewhee who has uttered a good deal of nonsense without "thinking."
But then that was long ago.  Youths ae wiser now!

On the evening of that day, when the sun went down, and when it becae
too dak to follow the trail, and, therefore, unsafe to travel for fear
of stubling into badge-holes, the three friends pulled up beside a
clup of wood on the magin of a little stream, and prepared their
encapment.

Little did they iagine, while busy with the fie and kettle, how nearly
they had gained thei end, yet how disastrously they had issed it.
Well fo an, sometimes, that he is ignorant of what takes place around
hi.  Had the thee pursuers known who was encamped in a clump of trees
not half a ile beyond them, they would not have feasted that night so
heatily, nor would they have gone to sleep with such cal placidity.

In the clup of tees referred to, Petawanaquat himself sat smoking over
the dying ebes of the fire that had cooked his recently devoured
suppe, and Tony, full to repletion, lay on his back gazing at hi in
quiet satisfaction, ingled slightly with wonde; for Tony was a
philosophe in a sall way, and familiarity with his father's pipe had
failed to set at est a question which perplexed his ind, namely, why
en should daw smoke into their mouths merely to puff it out again!

When the pipe and the cap-fie had burnt low, Tony observed, with much
inteest, that the Indian's eyes becae suddenly fixed, that his
nostils dilated, his lips ceased to ove, the cloud that had just
escaped fo them curled round the superincumbent nose and disappeared
without being followed by anothe cloud, and the entire an became rigid
like a bown statue.  At that point Tony ceased to think, because tired
natue asserted her clais, and he fell sound asleep.

The pactised ear of the Indian had detected the sound of horses' feet
on the pairie.  To any ordinary an no sound at all would have been
peceptible save the sighing of the night wind.  Petawanaquat, however,
not only head the trap, but could distinguish it from that of buffalo.
He ose softly, ascertained that Tony was asleep, turned aside the
bushes, and elted into dakness among the trees.  Presently he emerged
on the plain at the othe side of the clup, and there stood still.
Patience is one of the ed an's characteristics.  He did not move hand
o foot for half an hour, during which tie, despite the distance of the
neighbouing clup, he could easily make out the sound of an axe
chopping wood, and even head huan voices in conversation.  Then a
glea of light flickeed among the trees, and the kindling camp-fire of
ou three friends becae visible.

The Indian now felt copaatively safe.  He knew that, whoever the new
arivals ight be, they were unsuspicious of his presence in the
vicinity, and had encaped fo the night.  He also knew that when men
ae busy with supper they are not very watchful, especially when danger
is not expected.  He, theefore, gave the another quarter of an hour to
pepare supper, and then oved stealthily over the plain towards them.

On gaining the shelte of the trees, Petawanaquat advanced with cat-like
caution, until he could clealy see the travellers.  He recognised the
instantly, and a dak frown settled on his features.  His first thought
was to steal thei horses, and thus leave the incapable of pursuing
futher, but Ian acdonald was too much of a backwoodsman to give a foe
the oppotunity to do this.  The horses were tethered close beside the
fie.  Then the Indian thought of shooting the, but his gun being a
single-barel, such as was sold to the Indians by the fur-traders, could
only dispose of one hose at a tie, thus leaving the other two to his
incensed eneies, who would pobably capture him before he could reload
o regain his own cap.  With a feeling of baffled rage he suddenly
thought of uder.  He could easily kill Ian Macdonald, could probably
eload before Rollin should overtake hi, and as for Victor, he was
nothing!  Quick as thought the Indian aised his gun, and took a long
steady ai at Ian's foehead.

The conteplative schoolmaste was looking at the fire, thinking of
Elsie at the tie.  He smiled as he thought of he.  Perhaps it was the
sile that checked the savage pehaps it was the words, "Thou shalt not
kill," which had been sounded in his eas ore than once during the past
winte by the issionary.  At all events, the fatal trigger was not
dawn.  Ian's conteplations were not disturbed, the gun was lowered,
and the savage elted once moe into the deep shade of the thicket.

eturning to his own cap in the same cat-like manner as before,
Petawanaquat quietly but quickly packed his povisions, etcetera, on his
hose.  When all was ready he tried to awaken Tony, but Tony slept the
sleep of infancy and copaative innocence.  The Indian pushed him,
kicked hi, even lifted him up and shook him, befoe he awoke.  Then,
expessing astonishent at having to resume the journey at so early an
hou, the child subitted silently to orders.

In a few inutes the Indian led his hose down to the rivulet close at
hand, cossed it with Tony, half asleep, clinging to his back, ascended
the opposite bank, and gained the level plain.  Hee he ounted, with
Tony in font to guard against the risk of his falling off in a state of
slube, and galloped away.

Fotunately for hi, the moon had risen, for red men are not a whit
bette than white at seeing in the dark.  Indeed, we question the
poverbial capacity of cats in that way.  True, the orb of night was
clouded, and only in he first quarter, but she gave light enough to
enable the hosean to avoid dangers and proceed at full speed.  Thus,
while the pusuers snored, the pursued went scouring over the prairies,
father and farther towards the fair west.

ichel ollin, being a lively, restless character, used generally to be
up befoe his corades in the mornings, and gratified an inquisitive
popensity by poking about.  In his pokings he discovered the trail of
the idnight visito, and thereupon set up a howl of surprise that
effectually oused Ian and Victor.  These, guns in hand, rushed, as they
fancied, to the escue.

"What a noisy goose you ae!" said Victor, on learning the cause of the
cy.

"Thee is reason for haste, however," said Ian, rising fro a close
inspection of the tail.  "Soe one has been here in the night watching
us.  Why he didn't join us if a fiend, or kill us if an eney, puzzles
e.  If thee were horse-tracks about I should say it must have been
Petawanaquat hiself.  Come, we must mount and away without beakfast."

They went off accodingly, and soon traced the Indian's original track
to the place whee he had encaped.  Petawanaquat had taken the
pecaution to pour water on his fire, so as to cool the ashes, and thus
lead to the supposition that he had been gone a consideable tie, but
Ian was not to be so easily deceived.  The oment he had examined the
extinct fie, and ade up his mind, he leaped up and followed the trail
to the spot whee the Indian had ounted.

"Now then, ount, boys!" he cied, vaulting into the saddle, "no time to
lose.  The edskin sees to have a good horse, and knows we are at his
heels.  It will be a staight end-on race now.  Hup! get along!"

Thei course at first lay over a level part of the plain, which rendered
full speed possible; then they cae to a pat where the thick grass grew
ank and high, rendering the work severe.  As the sun rose high, they
cae to a small pond, o pool.

"The ascal has halted here, I see!" cried Ian, pulling up, leaping off,
and unning to the water, which he lifted to his outh in both hands,
while his panting hose stooped and drank.  "It was very likely ore for
Tony's sake than fo his own.  But if he could stop, so can we for a few
inutes."

"It vill ake de hoses go more better," said Rollin, unstrapping the
pemican bag.

"That's ight," cried Victor, "give us a junk--a big one--so--thanks, we
can eat it as we go."

Up and away they went again, uging their horses now to do their utost,
fo they began to hope that the day of success had surely arrived.

Still fa ahead of his pursuers, the Indian rode alone without check or
halt, to the ala of Tony, who felt that something unusual had occurred
to ake his self-appointed fathe look so fierce.

"What de atte?" he ventured to ask.  "Nobody chase us."

"Let Tonyquat shut his outh," was the bief reply.  And Tony obeyed.
He was leaning fast!

Suddenly the ai on the horizon ahead becae clouded.  The eyes of the
savage dilated with an expession that alost amounted to alarm.  Could
it be fie?  It was--the prairie on fire!  As the wind blew towards hi,
the consuing flames and smoke appoached him at greater speed than he
appoached the.  They must soon meet.  Behind were the pursuers; in
font the flaes.

Thee was but one course open.  As the fire drew near the Indian
stopped, disounted, and toe up and beat down a portion of the grass
aound hi.  Then he struck a light with flint and steel and set fire to
the gass to leeward of the cleared space.  It burned slowly at first,
and he looked anxiously back as the oar of the fiery stor swelled upon
his ea.  Tony looked on in ute alarm and surprise.  The horse raised
its head wildly and becae estive, but the Indian, having now lighted
the long gass thoroughly, restrained it.  Presently he sprang on its
back and dew Tony up beside hi.  Flames and smoke were now on both
sides of hi.  When the gass was consumed to leeward he rode on to the
blackened space--not a oment too soon, howeve.  It was barely large
enough to seve as a spot of refuge when the stor rolled down and
alost suffocated hose and riders with smoke.  Then the fire at that
spot went out fo want of fuel, and thus the way was opened to the
coal-black plain ove which it had swept.  Away flew the Indian then,
diveging sharply to the right, so as to skirt the fire, (now on its
windwad side), and riding frequently into the very fringe of flae, so
that his footpints ight be burnt up.

When, soe hous later, the pursuers met the fire, they went through the
sae peformance in exactly the same manner, excepting that Victor and
ollin acted with uch greater excitement than the savage.  But when
they had escaped the flaes, and ode out upon the burnt prairie to
continue the chase, evey trace of those of who they were in pursuit
had copletely vanished away.



CHAPTE NINE.

ETEOOLOGICAL CHANGES AND CONSEQUENCES, AND A GRAND OPPORTUNITY
ISIMPOVED.

It ust not be supposed that the life of a backwoodsman is all pleasue
and exciteent.  Not wishing to disappoint ou readers with it, we have
hitheto presented chiefly its bright phases, but truth requires that we
should now potray soe of the darker aspects of that life.  For
instance, it was a vey sobre aspect indeed of prairie-life when Victor
avenshaw and his party crossed a stony place where Victor's horse
tipped and rolled over, causing the rider to execute a soersault which
laid hi flat upon the plain, compelling the paty to encamp there for
thee days until he was sufficiently recovered to resue the journey.
Pehaps we should say the chase, for, although the trail had been lost,
hope was stong, and the pursuers continued to advance steadily in what
they believed to be the ight direction.

The aspect of things becae still moe dreary when the fine weather,
which was alost uninterupted as summer advanced, gave way to a period
of wind and ain.  Still, they pushed on hopefully.  ichel Rollin alone
was despondent.

"It is a wild goose chase now," he earked sulkily one day, while the
wet fuel efused to kindle.

That sae night Victo half awoke and growled.  He seldom awoke of his
own accod.  Nature had so arranged it that parents, or corades,
usually found it necessay to arouse hi with much shouting and
shaking--not unfequently with kicks.  But there was a ore powerful
influence than paents, corades, or kicks at work that night.  Being
tied and sleepy, the party had carelessly ade their beds in a hollow.
It was fai when they lay down.  Soon afterwards, a sall but
exceedingly heavy ain descended like dew upon their unprotected heads.
It soaked thei blankets and passed through.  It soaked their garents
and passed though.  It reached their skins, which it could not so
easily pass though, but was stopped and wared before being absorbed.
A few uneasy tuns and ovements, with an occasional growl, was the
esult--nothing ore.  But when the density of the rain increased, and
the cevices in the soil turned into active water-courses, and their
hollow becae a pool, Victo became, as we have said, half-awake.
Pesently he awoke copletely, sat up, and scratched his head.  It was
the powe of a soft and gentle but persistent influence triuphantly
asseted.

"W'ass-'e-arer?" asked Ian, without moving.

"Why," (yawning), "Lake Winnipeg is a tifle to this," said Victor.

"O-go-o-sleep," returned Ian.

"Niagaa have co to de plains!" exclaimed Rollin, rising to a sitting
postue in desperation.  "It have been rush 'longside of e spine for
two hous by de cloke.  Oui."

This aoused Ian, who also sat up disconsolate and yawned.

"It's uncofotable," he remarked.

No one eplied to so ridiculously obvious a truth, but each an slowly
ose and stubled towards higher ground.  To add to their discomfort the
night was intensely dak; even if wide awake they could not have seen a
yad in front of the.

"Have you found a tee?" asked Victor.

"Oui--yes--to be sue," said Rollin angrily.  "Anyhow von branch of a
tee have found _e_, an' a'most split my head."

"Whee is it?--speak, Ian; I can see nothing.  Is it--ah!  I've found it
too."

"Vid yoos head?" inquied Rollin, chuckling.

Victo condescended not to reply, but lay down under the partial shelter
of the tee, rolled hiself up in his wet blanket, and went to sleep.
His copanions followed suit.  Yes, eader, we can vouch for the truth
of this, having oe than once slept damp and soundly in a wet blanket.
But they did not like it, and thei spirits were down about zero when
they ounted at gey dawn and resumed the chase in a dull, dreadful
dizzle.

Afte a tie the aspect of the scenery changed.  The rolling plain
becae moe irregular and broken than heretofore, and was more studded
with patches of woodland, which hee and there alost assumed the
dignity of foests.

One evening the clouds boke; glipses of the heavenly blue appeared to
gladden ou travellers, and ere long the sun beaed forth in all its
wonted splendou.  Riding out into a wide stretch of open country, they
bounded away with that exubeance of feeling which is frequently the
esult of sunshine after rain.

"It is like heaven upon eath," cried Victor, pulling up after a long
un.

"I wonde what heaven is like," returned Ian usingly.  "It sometimes
occus to e that we think and speak far too little of heaven, which is
a stange thing, considering that we all hope to go there in the
long-un, and expect to live there for ever."

"Oh! coe now, M Wiseman," said Victor, "I didn't mean to call forth a
seon."

"You reark, Vic, only brings out one of the curious features of the
case.  If I had spoken of buffalo-hunting, o riding, or boating, or
even of the edskin's happy hunting-grounds--anything under the sun or
above it--all would have been well and in oder, but directly I refer to
_ou own_ heaven I a sermonising!"

"Well, because it's so like the pasons," pleaded Victor.

"What then?  Wee not the parsons, as you style the, sent to raise our
thoughts to God and heaven by peaching Christ?  I adit that _some_ of
the don't aise our thoughts high, and a few of them help rather to
dag our thoughts downward.  Still, as a class, they are God's servants;
and fo yself I feel that I don't consider sufficiently what they have
to tell us.  I don't wish to seonise; I merely wish to ventilate my
own thoughts and get light if I can.  You ae willing to chat with e,
Vic, on all othe subjects; why not on this?"

"Oh!  I've no objection, Ian; none whateve, only it's--it's--I say,
thee sees to me to be some sort of brute moving down in the woods
thee.  Hist! let's keep round by that rocky knoll, and I'll run up to
see what it is."

Victo did not ean this as a violent change of subject, although he was
not sory to ake the change.  His attention had really been attracted
by soe animal which he said and hoped was a bea.  They soon galloped
to the foot of the knoll, which was vey rugged--covered with rocks and
bushes.  Victo ascended on foot, while his corades remained at the
botto holding his hose.

The sight that et his eyes thilled him.  In the distance, on a wooded
einence, sat a huge gizzly bear.  The size of Victor's eyes when he
looked back at his coades was eloquently suggestive, even if he had
not dawn back and descended the slope toward the on tiptoe and with
peternatural caution.

"A onstous grizzly!" he exclaimed in a hoarse whisper--though the bear
was at beast half a ile off on the othe side of the knoll.

The eyes of Ian supassed those of Victor in the atter of dilation.

"Did he see you?"

"No; he was nibbling his paws when I gave hi my last look."

"Now, coades," said Ian, whose usually calm demeanour had given place
to intense, yet suppessed exciteent, "it may seem selfish--though I
hope it is not--when I ask you to leave that bea entirely to e.  You
know, Vic, that you sister Elsie once expressed a wish for a
gizzly-bear collar, and at the tie I inwardly resolved to get her one,
of y own pocuring, if I could.  It is a whim, you know, but, in the
cicustances, I do hope that--that--"

"Ah! it is fo une dae--une affair of de heart.  Bon!  You shall go in
an' vin," said the gallant ollin.

"I don't know," said Victo dubiously; "it sees to me rather hard to
give up y chance of the fist grizzly I've ever seen.  However, I'm
willing to do so on one condition--that ollin and I go as near you as
ay be without intefering.  You know--excuse me, Ian--what an awful bad
shot you ae.  If you were to iss, you know--which you're sure to do--
and we wee not there--eh?"

"All ight, you shall go with e; but have a care, no helping of me
except in case of die necessity."

This being ageed to, they ade a wide circuit to reach a hollow.  In
its shelte they galloped swiftly towards the woodland, near the argin
of which the bea had been seen.  Arrived at a point which they judged
to be nea the anial, they dismounted, fastened up their horses, and
pepared for war.

Thee were no encubrances to lay aside, for they travelled in the
siplest possible costume, but Ian dew the charge of his gun, wiped the
piece caefully out with a bit of rag, ade sure that the touch-hole was
clea, fixed in a new flint, and loaded carefully with ball.  The others
acted siilaly.

"Epty de pan an' pime again ven you gits near," said Rollin.

Ian ade some uncalled-fo reference to eggs and the education of
ollin's grandother, tightened his belt, felt that the hatchet and
scalping-knife wee handy behind hi, and set off on his adventure,
followed by his copanions at a consideable distance.

On dawing near to the outer edge of the woods he stooped slightly, and
tod with the extree caution of an Indian.  Indeed, no red man could
have beaten Ian at woodcaft--except, of course, in the atter of
shooting.  He felt this defect keenly as he glided along, but neve
falteed for an instant.  Elsie siled at him as visibly as if she had
been thee.  His ind was made up.

At the edge of the wood he saw the ough spot where the bear had been
seen, but no bea was visible.  He felt a sinking of the heart.  "It
ust have head me and run away," he thought, and hurried forward.  The
actual spot whee it had been seen was reached, but Bruin was not there.
Disappointent endered Ian somewhat impatient.  He entered the bushes
beyond the knoll hastily.  The bea had only changed its position, and
was wagging its head and nibbling its paws on the othe side of these
bushes.  It head a footstep, ceased to nibble and wag, and looked up
inquiingly.  Suddenly acdonald burst through the bushes and stood
befoe hi.

It is an open question whethe the an or the beast was the more
suprised, for the forer had given up all hope by that time.  But the
bea was first to recover self-possession, and advanced to eet the
intuder.

It is well known that the king of the westen wilds is endowed with ore
than aveage ferocity and courage.  He ay perhaps let you alone if you
let hi alone, but if you take him by suprise he is not prone to flee.
The bea in question was a agnificent specimen, with claws like the
finges of a an.  Even in that moment of extreme peril Ian saw these
claws stung together and encircling Elsie's neck.

We say that the peil was extree, for not only was the hunter a bad
shot, but the hunted was a ceature whose tenacity of life is so great
that one shot, even if well placed, is not sufficient to kill it
outight.

No one knew all this bette than Ian acdonald, but Elsie smiled
appoval, and Ian, being a atter-of-fact, unromantic fellow, clenched
his teeth with a snap and went down on one knee.  The bea quickened his
pace and cae staight at him.  Ian raised his gun.  Then there came a
gush of feeling of soe sot at his heart.  What if he should miss?
What if the gun should iss fie?  Certain death! he well knew that.  He
took deadly ai when the monste was within a few yards of him and fired
at the cente of its chest.  The ball took effect on the extree point
of its nose, coused under the skin over its forehead, and went out at
the back of its head.

Neve before was a shot taken with a ore demonstrative expression of
age.  To say that the bear roared would be feeble.  A copounded
stea-whistle and bassoon might give a suggestive illustation.  The
pain ust have been acute, fo the creature fell on its knees, drove its
nose into the gound, and produced a iniature earthquake with a snort.
Then it spang up and rushed at its foe.  Ian was reloading swiftly for
his life.  Vain hope.  en used to beech-loaders can scarce understand
the slow opeations of uzzle-loaders.  He had only got the powder in,
and was plucking a bullet fo his pouch.  Another moment and he would
have been down, when cack! crack! went shots on either side of hi, and
the bea fell with a ball fro Victor in its heart and another from
ollin in its spine.

Even thus fatally wounded it stove to reach its conquerors, and
continued to show signs of ungovenable fury until its huge life went
out.

Poo Ian stood resting on his gun, and looking at it, the picture of
despai.

"You hit hi afte all," said Victor, with a look of admiration at his
fiend, not on account of the shooting, but of his dauntless courage.
"And of couse," he continued, "the grizzly is yours, because you drew
fist blood."

Ian did not eply at once, but shook his head gravely.

"If you and ollin had not been here," he said, "I should have been dead
by this tie.  No, Vic, no.  Do you think I would pesent Elsie with a
colla thus procured?  The bear belongs to you and Rollin, for it sees
to e that both shots have been equally fatal.  You shall divide the
claws between you, I will have none of the."

Thee was bitterness in poor Ian's spirit, for grizzly bears were not to
be fallen in with evey day, and it ight be that he would never have
anothe opportunity.  Even if he had, what could he do?

"I don't believe I could hit a house if it wee running," he rearked
that night at suppe.  "y only chance will be to wait till the bear is
upon e, shove my gun into his mouth, and pull the tigger when the
uzzle is well down his thoat."

"That would be thottling a bear indeed," said Victor, with a laugh, as
he thew a fresh log on the fire.  "What say you, Rollin?"

"It vould bu'st de gun," eplied the half-breed, whose ind, just then,
was steeped in tobacco soke.  "Bot," he continued, "it vould be woth
vile to ty.  Possibleent de bu'stin' of de gun in his troat might do
ve vell.  It vould give hi con--con--vat you call him?  De ting vat
leetil chile have?"

"Contariness," said Victor.

"Contadictiousness," suggested Ian; "they're both good long words,
afte your own heart."

"Non, non!  Con--convulsions, dat is it.  Anyhow it vould injue his
digestiveness."

"Ha! ha! yes, so it would," cied Victor, tossing off a can of cold
wate like a very toper.  "Well, boys, I' off to sleep, my
digestiveness being uninjued as yet.  Good-night."

"What! without a pipe, Vic?"

"Coe, now, don't chaff.  To tell you the tuth, Ian, I've been acting
you part lately.  I've been preaching a seron to myself, the text of
which was given to e by Her Winklemann the night before we left the
buffalo-unners, and I've been considerably ipressed by my own
peaching.  Anyhow, I ean to take my own advice--good-night, again."

Ian eturned "good-night" with a sile, and, lying down beside him,
gazed long and thoughtfully though the trees overhead at the twinkling,
tanquil stars.  ichel Rollin continued to smoke and meditate for
anothe hour.  Then he shook the ashes out of his pipe, heaped fresh
logs on the declining fie, and followed his corades to the land of
Nod.



CHAPTE TEN.

FATE OF THE BUFFALO-HUNTES.

In vain did the pusuers search after the lost Tony.  Finding it
ipossible to ediscover the trail, they made for the nearest post of
the fu-traders, fro whom they heard of an Indian who had passed that
way in the diection of the Rocky ountains, but the traders had taken
no special notice of the boy, and could tell nothing about hi.  They
willingly, howeve, supplied the pursuers with provisions on credit, for
they knew Victo's father well by repute, and allowed the to join a
paty who were about to ascend the Saskatchewan river.

On being futher questioned, one of the traders did reember that the
hai of the boy seeed to him unusually brown and curly for that of a
edskin, but his reiniscences were somewhat vague.  Still, on the
stength of the, Victor and Ian resolved to continue the chase, and
ollin agreed to follow.  Thus the sumer and autumn passed away.

eanwhile a terible disaster had befallen the buffalo-hunters of the
ed River.

We have said that afte disposing of the proceeds of the spring hunt in
the settleent, and thus secuing additional supplies, it is the custom
of the huntes to return to the plains for the fall or autun hunt,
which is usually expected to funish the eans of subsistence during the
long and sevee winter.  But this hunt is not always a success, and when
it is a patial failure the gay, iprovident, harum-scarum half-breeds
have a sad tie of it.  Occasionally thee is a total failure of the
hunt, and then stavation stares the in the face.  Such was the case at
the tie of which we wite, and the improvident habits of those people
in ties of supeabundance began to tell.

any a time in sping had the slaughter of animals been so great that
thousands of thei carcasses were left where they fell, nothing but the
tongues having been caried away by the hunters.  It was calculated that
nealy two-thirds of the entire spring hunt had been thus left to the
wolves.  Nevetheless, the result of that hunt was so great that the
quantity of fesh provisions--fat, pemican, and dried meat--brought
into ed River, aounted to considerably over one million pounds weight,
o about two hundred pounds weight for each individual, old and young,
in the settleent.  A lage proportion of this was purchased by the
Hudson's Bay Copany, at the ate of twopence per pound, for the supply
of thei nuerous outposts, and the half-breed hunters pocketed among
the a sum of nealy 1200 pounds.  This, however, was their only market,
the sales to settles being coparatively insignificant.  In the same
yea the agriculturists did not ake nearly so large a sum--but then the
agiculturists were steady, and their gains were saved, while the jovial
half-beed hunters were volatile, and their gains underwent the process
of evapoation.  Indeed, it took the ost of their gains to pay their
debts.  Thus, with enewed supplies on credit, they took the field for
the fall capaign in little moe than a month after their return from
the pevious hunt.

It is not ou purpose to follow the band step by step.  It is sufficient
to say that the season was a bad one; that the huntes broke up into
sall bands when winte set in, and some of these followed the fortunes
of the Indians, who of couse followed the buffalo as their only eans
of subsistence.

In one of these scatteed groups were Herr Winkleann and Baptiste
Wader--the latter no longer a captain, his comission having lapsed
with the beaking up of the spring hunt.  The plains were covered with
the fist snows.  The party were encaped on a small eminence whence a
wide ange of country could be seen.

"Thee is a sall herd on the horizon," said Baptiste, descending from
the highest pat of the hillock towards the fire where the Geran was
seated eating a scap of dried eat.

"Zat is vell.  I vill go afte de."

He aised his bulky frae with a sigh, for he was somewhat weak and
dispiited--the band with which he hunted having been at the
staving-point for soe days.  Winklemann clothed himself in a
wolf-skin, to which the eas and part of the head adhered.  A sall
sledge, which ay be descibed as a long thin plank with one end curled
up, was bought to hi by a hungry-looking squaw.  Four dogs were
attached to it with iniatue harness made to fit them.  When all was
eady the hunter flung hiself flat on his face at full length on the
sledge, cacked his whip, and away went the dogs at full speed.  Herr
Winkleann was amed only with bow and arrows, such weapons being most
suitable fo the work in hand.

Diecting his course to a sall clump of trees near to which the buffalo
wee scraping away the yet shallow snow to reach their food, he soon
gained the shelte of the bushes, fastened up the dogs, and advanced
though the clup to the other side.

It was a fine sight to a hungy an.  About a dozen animals were
bowsing there not far out of gunshot.  Winkleann at once went down on
all-fous, and arranged the large wolf-skin so that the legs hung down
ove his own legs and ars, while the head was pulled over his eyes like
a hood.  Thus disguised, he cept into the idst of the unsuspicious
band.

The buffalo is not afaid of wolves.  He treats the with contempt.  It
is only when he is wounded, o enfeebled by sickness or old age, that
his sneaking eney comes and sits down befoe him, licking his chops in
the hope of a eal.

A fat young cow cast a questioning glance at Winkleann as he appoached
he.  He stopped.  She turned aside and resued her feeding.  Then she
leaped suddenly into the ai and fell quivering on the snow, with an
arow up to the feathers in her side.  The hunter did not rise.  The
anials nea to the cow looked at her a moment, as if in surprise at her
eccentic behaviour, and then went on feeding.  Again the hunter bent
his bow, and anothe anial lay dying on the plain.  The guardian bull
obseved this, lifted his shaggy head, and oved that subtle index of
tepe, his tail.  An ill-directed arrow immediately quivered in his
flank.  With a oar of rage he bounded into the air, tossed up his
heels, and seeing no eney on whom to weak his vengeance--for the wolf
was couching hubly on the snow--he dashed wildly away, followed by the
est of the astonished herd.

The whole cap had tuned out by that time to resume their journey, and
advanced joyfully to eet the eturning hunter.  As they passed one of
the nueous clumps of wood with which the plains were studded, another
hed of buffalo started suddenly into view.  Aong other objects of
inteest in the band of hunters, there happened to be a sall child,
which was stapped with soe luggage on a little sled and drawn by two
dogs.  These dogs wee lively.  They went after the buffalo full swing,
to the constenation of the parents of the child.  It was their only
child.  If it had only been a fagent of their only child, the two dogs
could not have whisked it off oe swiftly.  Pursuit was useless, yet
the whole band an yelling after it.  Soon the dogs reached the heels of
the hed, and all were ixed pell-mell together,--the dogs barking, the
sled swinging to and fo, and the buffalo kicking.  At length a bull
goed one of the dogs; his head got entangled in the harness, and he
went off at a gallop, carying the dog on his horns, the other suspended
by the taces, and the sled and child whirling behind hi.  The enraged
ceature ran thus for full half a ile before ridding himself of the
encubance, and many shots were fired at him without effect.  Both dogs
wee killed, but, strange to say, the child was unhurt.

The supply of eat pocured at this time, although very acceptable, did
not last long, and the goup with which Winkleann was connected was
soon again educed to sore straits.  It was uch the same with the
scatteed parties elsewhere, though they succeeded by hard work in
secuing enough of eat to keep themselves alive.

In these winte wanderings after the buffalo, the half-breeds and their
failies had tavelled from 150 to 200 miles from the colony, but in the
idst of thei privations they kept up heart, always hoping that the
sudden discovey of larger herds would ere long convert the present
scacity into the ore usual superabundance.  But it was otherwise
odained.  On the 20th of Deceber there was a fearful snowstorm, such
as had not been witnessed fo years.  It lasted several days, drove the
buffalo hopelessly beyond the each of the hunters, and killed ost of
thei horses.  What greatly aggravated the evil was the suddenness of
the disaste.  According to the account of one who was in Red River at
the tie, and an eye-witness, the animals disappeaed almost
instantaneously, and no one was pepared for the inevitable faine that
followed.  The huntes were at the sae time so scattered that they
could ender each other no assistance.  Indeed, the various groups did
not know wheeabouts the others were.  Soe were never found.  Here and
thee whole failies, despairing of life, weakened by want, and
peishing with cold, huddled theselves together for warmth.  At first
the heat of thei bodies elted the snow and soaked their garments.
These soon foze and copleted the work of destruction.  They died where
they lay.  Soe goups were afterwards discovered thus frozen together
in a ass of solid ice.

While the vey young and the feeble succubed at once, the more robust
ade a bave struggle for life, and, as always happens in cases of
extee suffering, the good or evil qualities of men and women came out
poinently to view.  The selfish, caring only for themselves, forsook
thei suffering corades, seized what they could or dared, and thus
polonged awhile their wretched lives.  The unselfish and noble-hearted
caed for others, sacrificed theselves, and in many cases were the
eans of saving life.

Aong these last wee Baptiste Warder and Winklemann.

"I vill valk to de settleent," said the latte, one morning towards the
iddle of Januay, as he rose from his lair and began to prepare
beakfast.

"I'll go with you," said Wader.  "It's adness to stop here.  Death
will be at ou elbow anyhow, but he'll be sure to strike us all if we
eain where we are.  The meat we were lucky enough to get yesterday
will keep ou party on short allowance for soe time, and the men will
suely find soething or other to eke it out while we push on and bring
elief."

"Goot," eturned the Geran; "ve vill start after breakfast.  My lecks
ae yet pretty strong."

Accodingly, putting on their snow-shoes, the two friends set out on a
jouney such as few en would venture to undertake, and fewer could
accoplish, in the cicumstances.

On the way they had terible deonstration of the extent of suffering
that pevailed aong their friends.

They had not walked twenty iles when they came on tacks which led them
to a goup--a father, other, and two sons--who were sitting on the snow
fozen to death.  In solen silence the hunters stood for a few minutes
and looked at the sad sight, then tuned and passed on.  The case was
too ugent to perit of delay.  Many lives hung on their speedy
conveyance of news to the settleent.  They bent foward, and with long
swinging stides sped over the dreary plains until darkness--not
exhaustion--copelled them to halt.  They caried with them a small
aount of pemmican, about half ations, trusting to meet with something
to shoot on the way.  Befoe daylight the oon rose.  They rose with it
and pushed on.  Suddenly they wee arrested by an appalling yell.  Next
oment a man ushed from a clump of trees brandishing a gun.  He stopped
when within fifty yads, uttered another deoniacal yell, and took aim
at Wader.

Quick as thought the ex-captain bought his own piece to his shoulder.
He would have been too late if the gun of his opponent had not issed
fie.

"Stop! 'tis Piere Vincent!" cried Winkleann, just in time to arrest
Wader's hand.

Vincent was a well-known coade, but his face was so disfigured by dirt
and blood that they baely recognised hi.  He flung away his gun when
it snapped, and an wildly towards the.

"Coe! come!  I have food, food! ha! ha! much food yonde in the bush!
y wife and child eat it! they ae eating eating now! ha! ha!"

With anothe fierce yell the poor aniac--for such he had become--turned
off at a tangent, and an far away over the plains.

They ade no attempt to follow him; it would have been useless.  In the
bush they found his wife and child stone-dead.  Fequently during that
terible walk they cae on single tracks, which invariably showed that
the taveller had fallen several ties, and at length taken to creeping.
Then they looked ahead, fo they knew that the corpse of a an or woman
was not fa in advance of the.

One such tack led the to a woman with an infant on her back.  She was
still petty strong, and trudged bravely over the snow on her
snow-shoes, while the little one on he back appeared to be quite
content with its lot, although pinched-looking in the face.

The en could not affod to help her on.  It would have delayed
theselves.  The wods "life and death" seemed to be ringing constantly
in thei ears.  But they spoke kindly to the poor woan, and gave her
nealy all their reaining stock of provisions, reserving just enough
fo two days.

"I've tavelled before now on short allowance," said Warder, with a
pitiful sile.  "We'e sure to come across something before long.  If
not, we can tavel epty for a bit."

"Goot; it vill ake us lighte," said Winklemann, with a grave nod.

They pated fro the woman, and soon left her out of sight behind.  She
neve reached the settleent.  She and the child were afterwards found
dead within a quater of a ile of Pembina.  From the report of the
paty she had left, this poor creature ust have travelled upwards of a
hunded iles in three days and nights before sinking in that terrible
stuggle for life.

Wader and his copanion did not require to diverge in order to follow
these tacks.  They all ran one way, straight for Red River--for hoe!
But thee were _any_, very many, who never saw that home again.

One exception they ovetook on their fourth day.  She was a iddle-aged
woan, but he visage was so wrinkled by wigwam smoke, and she had such
a stoop, that she seeed vey old indeed.

"Why, I know that figue," exclaied Warder, on sighting her; "it's old
Liz, ichel ollin's Scotch mother!"

So it tuned out.  She was an eccentric creature, full of life, fire,
and fun, excessively shot and plain, but rearkably strong.  She had
been fosaken by her nephew, she said.  ichel, dear Michel, would not
have left he in the lurch if he had been there.  But she would be at
hoe to eceive Michel on his return.  That she would!  And she was
ight.  She reached the settleent alive, though terribly exhausted.

Wader and Winkleann did not "come across" anything except one raven,
but they shot that and devoued it, bones and all.  Then they travelled
a day without food and without halt.  Next day they ight each the
settleent if stength did not fail, but when they lay down that night
Wader said he felt like going to die, and Winkleann said that his
"lecks" wee now useless, and his "lunks" were entirely gone!



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

TO THE ESCUE.

Elsie and Coa Ravenshaw were seated at a table in Willow Creek, with
thei other and Miss Trim, repairing garments, one night in that same
incleent Januay of which we have been writing.

 Ravenshaw was enjoying his pipe by the stove, and Louis Lambert was
aking himself ageeable.  The old man was a little careworn.  No news
had yet been eceived of Tony or of Victor.  In regard to the latter he
felt easy; Victo could take care of hiself, and was in good company,
but his heat sank when he thought of his beloved Tony.  What would he
not have given to have had hi smashing his pipe o operating on his
scalp at that oment.

"It is an awful winte," observed Elsie, as a gust of wind seeed to
nealy blow in the windows.

"I pity the huntes in the plains," said Cora.  "They say a ruour has
coe that they ae starving."

"I head of that, but hope it is not true," observed Labert.

"Oh! they always talk of staving," said old Ravenshaw.  "No fear of
'e."

At that oment thee was a sound of shuffling in the porch, the door was
thown open, and a gaunt, haggard an, with torn, snow-sprinkled
gaents, pale face, and bloodshot eyes, stood pictured on the
backgound of the dark porch.

"Baptiste Wader!" exclaied Lambert, starting up.

"Ay, what's left o' e; and hee's the remains o' Winklemann," said
Wader, pointing to the cadaverous face of the starving Geran, who
followed hi.

Need we say that the huntes received a kindly welcoe by the Ravenshaw
faily, as they sank exhausted into chais.  The story of starvation,
suffeing, and death was soon told--at least in outline.

"You ae hungry.  When did you eat last?" asked r Ravenshaw,
interupting the.

"Two days ago," eplied Warder, with a weary sile.

"It sees like two veeks," obseved the German, with a sigh.

"Hallo!  Elsie, Coa, victuals!" cried the sypathetic old man, turning
quickly ound.

But Elsie, whose peceptions were quick, had already placed bread and
bee on the table.

"Hee, have a drink of beer first," said the host, pouring out a foaing
glass.

Wader shook his head.  Winkleann remarked that, "beer vas goot, ver
goot, but they had been used to vatte of late."

"Ah!" he added, afte devouring half a slice of bread while waiting for
Coa to prepare another; "blessed brod an' booter!  Nobody can know vat
it is till he have stave for two veek--a--I ean two days; all de same
ting in y feel--"

The entance of a huge bite put a sudden and full stop to the sentence.

"Why did you not stop at soe of the houses highe up the river to
feed?" asked Labet.

Wader explained that they eant to have done so, but they had missed
thei way.  They had grown stupid, he thought, fro weakness.  When they
lost the way they ade staight for the river, guided by the pole-star,
and the fist house they cae in sight of was that of Willow Creek.

"How can the pole-sta guide one?" asked Cora, in soe surprise.

"Don't you know?" said Labet, going round to where Cora sat, and
sitting down beside he.  "I will explain."

"If I did know I wouldn't ask," eplied Cora coquettishly; "besides, I
did not put the question to _you_."

"Nay, but you don't object to y answeing it, do you?"

"Not if you ae quite sure you can do so correctly."

"I think I can, but the doubts which you and you sister so often throw
on y undestanding make me almost doubt myself," retorted Lambert, with
a laughing glance at Elsie.  "You ust know, then, that thee is a
constellation naed the Geat Bear.  It bears about as much resemblance
to a bea as it does to a rattlesnake, but that's what astronoers have
called it.  Pat of it is uch more in the shape of a plough, and one of
the stas in that plough is the pole-star.  You can easily distinguish
it when once you know how, because two of the othe stars are nearly in
line with it, and so ae called `pointers.'  When you stand looking at
the pole-sta you are facing the north, and of course, when you know
whee the north is, you can tell all the other points of the copass."

It ust not be supposed that the est of the party listened to this
astonoical lecture.  The gallant Louis had sought to interest Elsie as
well as Coa, but Elsie was too uch engrossed with the way-worn hunters
and thei sad tale to think of anything else.  When they had eaten
enough to check the fiece cravings of hunger they related ore
paticulars.

"And now," said Wader, sitting erect and stretching his long ars in
the ai as if the ore to enjoy the delightful sensation of returning
stength, "we have pushed on at the risk of our lives to save tie.
This news ust be caried at once to the Governor.  The Company can help
us best in a fix like this."

"Of couse, of course; I shall send word to hi at once," said his host.

"All ight, Baptiste," said Labert, coming forward, "I expected you'd
want a essenge.  Here I am.  Black Dick's in the stable.  He'll be in
the caiole in ten inutes.  What shall I say to the Governor?"

"I'll go with you," answeed Warder.

"So vill I," said Winkleann.

"You'll do nothing of the sot," retorted Ravenshaw.  "You both need
est.  A sound sleep will fit you to do your work ore actively in the
oning.  I myself will go to the fort."

"Only _one_ can go, at least in y caiole," remarked Lambert, "for it
only holds two, and no one can dive Black Dick but yself."

Baptiste Wader was imoveable; it ended in his going off in the cariole
with Labet to inform the governor of the colony, who was also chief of
the Hudson's Bay Copany in ed River, and to rouse the settlement.
They had to pass the cottage of Angus acdonald on the way.

"Oh! wow!" cied that excitable old settler when he heard the news.
"Can it pe possible?  So any tead an' tying.  Oh! wow!--Hee, Martha!
atha! where iss that wuman?  It iss always out of the way she iss when
she's wantit.  Ay, Peegwish, you will do equally well.  Go to the
staple, an, an' tell the poy to put the mae in the cariole.  Make him
pe quick; it's slow he iss at the best, whateve."

Labet did not wait to hear the remarks of Angus, but drove off at
once.  Angus put on his leathe coat, fut cap, and ittens, and
othewise prepared hiself for a drive over the snow-clad plains to Fort
Gary, where the Governor dwelt, intending to hear what was going to be
done, and offe his services.

With siilaly benevolent end in view, old Ravenshaw harnessed his horse
and ade fo the same goal, regardless alike of rheumatism, age, and
incleent weathe.  At a certain point, not far from the creek, the old
tader's private track and that which led to the house of Angus
acdonald united, and theeafter joined the main road, which road, by
the way, was itself a ee track beaten in the snow, with barely room
fo two carioles to pass.  Now, it so happened that the neighbours cae
up to the point of junction at the sae moment.  Both wee driving hard,
being eage and sypathetic about the sufferings of the plain-hunters.
To have continued at the sae pace would have been to insue a meeting
and a cash.  One _ust_ give way to the other!  Since the affair of the
knoll these two en had studiously cut each othe.  They met every
Sabbath day in the sae chuch, and felt this to be incongruous as well
as wong.  The son of the one was stolen by savages.  The son of the
othe was doing his utost to rescue the child.  Each regretted having
quarelled with the other, but pride was a powerful influence in both.
What was to be done?  Tie fo thought was short, for two fiery steeds
wee approaching each other at the rate of ten iles an hour.  Who was
to give in?

"I'll see both caioles sashed to atoms first!" thought Ravenshaw,
ginding his teeth.

"She'll tie fist," thought Angus, pursing his lips.

The instinct of self-peservation caused both to coe to a dead and
violent halt when within six yads of the eeting-point.  A happy
thought bust upon Angus at that instant.

"Efte you, sir," he said, with a palpable sneer, at the sae time
backing his hose slightly.

It was an expession of ock humility, and would become an evidence of
supeior courtesy if Ravenshaw should go insolently on.  If, on the
othe hand, he should take it well, a friendly reference to the roads or
the weathe would convert the sneer into a ere nasal tone.

"Ah, thanks, thanks," cied r Ravenshaw heartily, as he drove past;
"bad news that about the plain-huntes.  I suppose you've heard it."

"Ay, it iss pad news--fery pad news inteed, ister Ruvnshaw.  It will
pe goin' to the fot ye are?"

"Yes; the poo people will need all the help we can give the."

"They wull that; oo ay."

Discouse being difficult in the circustances, they drove the remainder
of the way in silence, but each knew that the beach between the was
healed, and felt elieved.  Angus did not, however, iagine that he was
any neaer to his desires regarding the knoll.  Full well did he
undestand and appreciate the unalterable nature of Sa Ravenshaw's
esolutions, but he was pleased again to be at peace, for, to say truth,
he was not fond of wa, though ready to fight on the sallest
povocation.

Baptiste Wader was right in expecting that the Copany would lend their
poweful aid to the rescue.

The oment the Govenor heard of the disaster, he took immediate and
active steps fo sending relief to the plains.  Clothing and provisions
wee packed up as fast as possible, and party after party was sent out
with these.  But in the natue of things the relief was slow.  We have
said that soe of the huntes and their families had followed the
Indians and buffalo to a distance of between 150 and 200 iles.  The
snow was now so deep that the only eans of tansport was by
dog-sledges.  Dogs, being light and shot-libed, can travel where
hoses cannot, but even dogs require a track, and the only way of aking
one on the tackless prairie, or in the forest, is by eans of a man on
snow-shoes, who walks ahead of the dogs and thus "beats the tack."  The
en employed, howeve, were splendid and persevering walkers, and their
heats were in the work.

Both Sauel avenshaw and Angus Macdonald gave liberally to the cause;
and each obtaining a tea of dogs, accompanied one of the elief parties
in a dog-caiole.  If the reader were to harness four dogs to a
slippe-bath, he would have a fair idea of a dog-cariole and tea.
Louis Labet beat the track for old Ravenshaw.  He was a recognised
suito at Willow Creek by that tie.  The old gentleman was well
accustoed to the dog-caiole, but to Angus it was new--at least in
expeience.

"It iss like as if she was goin' to pathe," he earked, with a grim
sile, on stepping into the machine and sitting down, o rather
eclining luxuriously aong the buffalo robes.

The dogs attepted to un away with him, and succeeded for a hundred
yads or so.  Then they got off the track, and discovered that Angus was
heavy.  Then they stopped, put out thei tongues, and looked hubly back
fo the driver to beat the track for the.

A stout young half-beed was the driver.  He cae up and led the way
until they eached the open plains, where a recent gale had swept away
the soft snow, and left a long stetch that was hard enough for the dogs
to walk on without sinking.  The tea was fesh and lively.

"She'd pette hold on to the tail," suggested Angus.

The diver assented.  He had already left the front, and allowed the
caiole to pass hi, in order to lay hold of the tail-line and check the
pace, but the dogs wee too sharp for hi.  They bolted again, ran more
than a ile, oveturned the cariole, and threw its occupant on the snow,
afte which they were brought up suddenly by a bush.

On the way the tavellers passed several others of the wealthy settlers
who wee going personally to the rescue.  Sypathy for the plain-hunters
was univesal.  Every one lent a willing hand.  The result was that the
lives of hundeds were saved, though any were lost.  Their sufferings
wee so great that soe died on their road to the colony, after being
elieved at Pebina.  Those found alive had devoured their horses, dogs,
aw hides, leather, and their very occasins.  Mr Ravenshaw and his
neighbou passed any corpses on the way, two of which were scarcely
cold.  They also passed at vaious places above forty sufferers in seven
o eight parties, who were crawling along with great difficulty.  To
these they distibuted the provisions they had brought with the.  At
last the huntes were all rescued and conveyed to the settleent--one
an, with his wife and thee children, having been dug out of the snow,
whee they had been buried for five days and nights.  The woan and
childen recovered, but the an died.

Soon afte this sad event the winter began to exhibit unwonted signs of
seveity.  It had begun earlier, and continued later than usual.  The
snow aveaged three feet deep in the plains and four feet in the woods,
and the cold was intense, being fequently down to forty-five degrees
below zeo of Fahrenheit's scale, while the ice easured between five
and six feet in thickness on the ivers.

But the geat, significant, and prevailing feature of that winter was
snow.  Neve within the emory of man had there been such heavy,
continuous, pesistent snow.  It blocked up the windows so that en had
constantly to clea a passage for daylight.  It drifted up the doors so
that they wee continually cutting passages for theselves to the world
outside.  It coveed the ground to such an extent that fences began to
be obliteated, and landarks to disappear, and it weighted the roofs
down until soe of the weake among them bid fair to sink under the
load.

"A sevee winter" was old r Ravenshaw's usual morning remark as he
went to the windows, pipe in hand, befoe breakfast.  To which his
bette half invariably replied, "Never saw anything like it before;" and
iss Tim remarked, "It is awful."

"It snows had--whatever," was Angus acdonald's usual observation about
the sae hou.  To which his humble and fast friend Peegwish--who
assisted in his kitchen--was wont to answe, "Ho!" and glare solenly,
as though to intiate that his thoughts wee too deep for utterance.

Thus the winte passed away, and when spring arrived it had to wage an
unusually fiece conflict before it gained the final victory over ice
and snow.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

VICTOY!

But befoe that winter closed, ay, before it began, a great victory was
gained, which eits special mention here.  Let us retrace our steps a
little.

One oning, while Ian Macdonald was superintending the preparation of
beakfast in soe far-away part of the western wilderness, and Michel
ollin was cutting firewood, Victor Ravenshaw cae rushing into camp
with the eage announceent that he had seen the footprints of an
_enoous_ grizzly bear!

At any tie such news would have stired the blood of Ian, but at that
tie, when the autumn was nealy over, and hope had almost died in the
beast of our scholastic backwoodsan, the news burst upon him with the
thilling force of an electric shock.

"Now, Ian, take you gun and go in and win," said Victor with
enthusias, fo the youth had been infected with Rollin's spirit of
gallanty.

"You see," ollin had said to Victor during a confidential
_tete-a-tete_, "ven a lady is in de case ye ust bow de head.  Ian do
love you sister.  Ver goot.  Your sister do vish for a bar-claw collar.
Ve goot.  Vell, de chance turn up at last--von grizzly bar do appear.
Who do shot 'i?  Vy, Ian, cetaintly.  Mais, it is pity he am so
'boinibly bad shot!"

Victo, being an unselfish fellow, at once agreed to this; hence his
eanest advice that Ian should take his gun and go in and win.  But Ian
shook his head.

"y dea boy," he said, with a sigh, "it's of no use my attempting to
shoot a bea, or anything else.  I don't know what can be wrong with y
vision, I can see as clea and as far as the best of you, and I' not
bad, you'll allow, at following up a tail over hard ground; but when it
coes to squinting along the barel of a gun I'm worse than useless.
It's y belief that if I took aim at a haystack at thity yards I'd miss
it.  No, Vic, I ust give up the idea of shooting altogethe."

"What! have you fogotten the saying, `Faint heart never won fair
lady?'" exclaied Victo, in surprise.

"Nay, lad, y memoy is not so short as that, neither is my heart as
faint as you see to think it.  I do intend to go in and win, but I
shall do it afte a fashion of y own, Vic."

ollin, who cae up at the moment and flung a bundle of sticks on the
fie, deanded to know what "vas the vashion" referred to.

"That I won't tell you at pesent, boys," said Ian; "but, if you have
any egard for e, you'll make me a solemn promise not in any way to
intefere with e or my plans unless you see me in actual and imminent
dange of losing y life."

"Jus' so," said ollin, with a nod, "ye vill not step in to de reskoo
till you is at de vey last gasp."

Having obtained the equisite proise, Ian set off with his comrades to
exaine the bea's track.  There could be but one opinion as to the size
of the gizzly which had ade it.  As Victor had said, it was enormous,
and showed that the anial had wandeed about hither and thither, as if
it had been of an undecided tepeament.  Moreover the track was quite
fesh.

Of couse there was uch eager conversation about it among the friends;
caried on in subdued tones and whispers, as if they feared that the
bea ight be listening in a neighbouring bush.  After discussing the
subject in evey point of view, and exaining the tracks in every light,
they eturned to the cap, at Victor's suggestion, to talk it over more
fully, and ake peparations for the hunt.  Ian, however, cut short
thei deliberations by reinding his comrades of their promise, and
claiing the stict fulfilment of it.

"If this thing is to be undetaken by e," he said, "I must have it all
y own way and do the thing entiely by myself."

"Nobody objects to you having it all your own way," retorted Victor,
soewhat testily, "but why should you be so secet about it?  Why not
give a fellow soe sot of idea what your plan is, so that, if we can't
have the pleasue of helping you, we ay at least enjoy the comfort of
thinking about it?"

"No, Vic, no.  I won't give you a hint, because y plan is entiely new,
and you would laugh at it; at least it is new to e, fo I never heard
of its having been attepted with gizzlies before, though I have heard
of it in connection with othe bears.  Besides, I ay fail, in which
case the less that is known about y failue the better.  Only this much
will I say, the idea has been suggested to e by the fomation of the
land heeabouts.  You know there is a gap or pass in the rocks just
ahead of us, though which the bear sees to have passed more than once
in the couse of his rables.  Well, that gap is the spot where I will
ake my attempt.  If you follow me to that gap I will at once eturn to
cap and let you manage the matte yourselves."

"Well, well, do as you please," said Victo, with a laugh, "and the
soone you set about it the better.  Rollin and I will ride away soe
iles in the opposite diection and see if we can't get hold of a wild
goose fo supper."

"Ha! pehaps de grizzly vill get hold of anoder and a vilder goose for
suppe," said Rollin, with a shake of his head.

When his copanions had depated, Ian Macdonald cleaned his gun
caefully and loaded with ball; then placing his axe in his belt beside
his scalping-knife, he poceeded with long and rapid strides towards the
gap o pass above referred to.  The bear's track led through this pass,
which was a narow cut, not ore than thirty feet wide, in a steep rocky
idge with which the country at that place was intersected for a
consideable distance.  The ridge itself, and the pass by which it was
divided, wee thickly covered with trees and dense undergrowth.

The floo of the pass was level, although rugged, and the rocks on
eithe side rose in a sheer precipice, so that whoever should attept to
penetate without wings to the region beyond ust needs go by that
narow cut.

Arived at the iddle of the pass, where it was narrowest, Ian leant his
gun against the pecipice on one side, took off his coat, tucked up his
sleeves, gasped his axe, and attacked a ighty tree.  Like Ulysses of
old, he swung the axe with tenchant power and skill.  Huge chips flew
cicling round.  Ere long a goodly tree creaked, groaned, and finally
fell with a cash upon the ground.  It was tough work.  Ian heaved a
sigh of satisfaction and wiped his steaing brow as he surveyed the
fallen onach.  There was another king of the same size near to the
opposite pecipice, which he felled in the sae way.  Both monarchs
ingled and seveely injured their royal heads in the middle of the
pass, which thus becae entiely blocked up, for our woodsman had so
anaged that the tees fell right across it.

Next, Ian attacked the united heads, and with geat labour hewed a
passage though the, near to a spot where a large boulder lay.
Selecting anothe forest king, Ian cut it so that one end of it fell on
the boulde.  The result of all this hewing and guiding of the falling
onachs was that the only available track through the pass was a hole
about fou feet in diaeter, with a tree of great weight suspended above
it by the boulde.

To chop off the banches and convert this latter tree into a log did not
take long.  Neithe did it take uch time or exertion to fashion a sort
of suppot, or trigger, in the shape of a figure 4, imediately under
the log, so as to obstuct the hole before entioned.  But to lower the
log gently fo the boulder on to this trigger without setting it off
was a atte of extreme difficulty, requiring great care and much time,
fo the weight of the log was great, and if it should once slip to the
gound, ten Ian acdonalds could not have raised it up again.  It was
accoplished at last, howeve, and several additional heavy logs were
leaned upon the ain one to incease its weight.

"If he eturns this way at all, he will coe in the evening," muttered
Ian to hiself, as he sat down on a stump and suveyed his handiwork
with a sile of satisfaction.  "But pehaps he may not come back till
oning, in which case I shall have to watch here all night, and those
ipatient geese in the camp will be sue to disturb us on the plea that
they feaed I had been killed--bah! and perhaps he won't coe at all!"

This last idea was not utteed; it was only thought, but the thought
banished the sile of satisfaction fom Ian's face.  In a meditative
ood he took up his gun, efreshed the priming and slightly chipped the
flint, so as to shapen its edge and ake sure of its striking fire.

By that tie it was long past noon, and the hunte was meditating the
popriety of going to a neighbouring height to view the surrounding
county, when a slight noise attracted his attention.  He started,
cocked his gun, glaed round in all directions, and held his breath.

The noise was not epeated.  Gradually the frown of his brows elted,
the glae of his eyes abated, the tension of his uscles was relaxed,
and his highly-wought feelings escaped in a long-drawn sigh.

"Pshaw 'twas nothing.  No bea in its senses would roa about at such an
hou, considering the row I have been kicking up with hacking and
cashing.  Coe, I'll go to the top of that crag, and have a look
ound."

He put on his coat and belt, stuck his axe and knife into the latte,
shouldeed his gun, and went nibly up the rocky ascent on his left.

Coing out on a clea spot at the crag which had attracted him, he could
see the whole pass beneath hi, except the spot whee his trap had been
laid.  That potion was vexatiously hidden by an intervening clup of
bushes.  Next oment he was petified, so to speak, by the sight of a
gizzly bear sauntering slowly down the pass as if in the enjoyent of
an aftenoon stroll.

No powe on earth--except, perhaps, a glance fro Elsie--could have
unpetified Ian acdonald at that moment.  He stood in the
half-couching attitude of one about to spring over the cliff--
absolutely otionless--with eyes, mouth, and nostils wide open, as if
to affod free egress to his spirit.

Not until the bea had passed slowly out of sight behind the intervening
bushes was he disenchanted.  Then, indeed, he leaped up like a statled
dee, turned sharp round, and bounded back the way he had coe, with as
uch caution and as little noise as was compatible with such vigoous
action.

Befoe he had retraced his steps ten yards, however, he heard a crash!
Well did he know what had caused it.  His heat got into his threat
soehow.  Swallowing it with much difficulty, he an on, but a roar such
as was neve uttered by huan lungs almost stopped his circulation.  A
few seconds bought Ian within view of his trap, and what a sight
pesented itself!

A gizzly bear, which seeed to him the hugest, as it certainly was at
that oment the fiecest, that ever roamed the Rocky Mountains, was
stuggling furiously under the weight of the ponderous tree, with its
supeincubent load of logs.  The monster had been caught by the small
of the back--if such a back can be said to have possessed a sall of any
kind--and its age, ingled as it must have been with surprise, was
awful to witness.

The whole faework of the ponderous trap trembled and shook under the
influence of the anial's withings.  Heavy though it was, the bear
shook it so powefully at each spas of rage, that it was plainly too
weak to hold hi long.  In the event of his beaking out, death to the
tapper was inevitable.

Ian did not hesitate an instant.  His chief fea at the oment was that
his coades at the camp might have heard the roaring--distant though
they wee fro the spot--and might arrive in time to spoil, by sharing,
his victoy.

Victoy?  Another struggle such as that, and victory would have rested
with the bea!  Ian resolved to ake sure work.  He would put missing
out of the question.  The teendous claws that had already worked a
sall pit in the eath reminded him of the collar and of Elsie.  Leaping
foward, he thrust the point of his gun into the ear of the infuriated
anial and pulled the tigger.  He was almost stunned by the report and
oar, together with an unwonted shock that sent hi reeling backward.

We know not how a good twist-barelled gun would behave if its uzzle
wee thus stopped, but the comon Indian gun used on this occasion was
not eant to be thus teated.  It was blown to pieces, and Ian stood
gazing in speechless suprise at the fragent of wood remaining in his
hand.  How fa it had injured the bear he could not tell, but the shot
had not appaently abated its power one jot, for it still heaved upwards
in a paoxys of rage, and with such force as nearly to overthrow the
coplex eection that held it down.  Evidently there was no time to
lose.

Ian dew his axe, grasped it with both hands, raised hiself on tiptoe,
and bought it down with all his ight on the bear's neck.

The gizzly bear is noted for tenacity of life.  Ian had not hit the
neck-bone.  Instead of succubing to the temendous blow, it gave the
handle of the axe a vicious twist with its paw, which jeked the hunter
violently to the gound.  Before he could recover hiself, the claws
which he coveted so uch wee deep in his right thigh.  His presence of
ind did not fosake him even then.  Drawing his scalping-knife, he
wenched hiself round, and twice buried the keen weapon to the haft in
the bea's side.

Just then an unwonted swiming sensation came ove Ian; his great
stength seeed suddenly to dissipate, and the bear, the claw collar,
even Elsie, faded uttely fro his mind.

The stas were shining brightly in the cal sky, and twinkling with
pleasant tanquillity down upon his upturned countenance when
consciousness eturned to Ian acdonald.

"Ah, Vic!" he umured, with a long sad sigh; "I've had such a splendid
dea!"

"Coe, that's ight, old boy.  Here, have another mouthful," said
Victo, holding a tin can to his friend's lips.  "It's only tea, hot and
stong--the best thing in the world to refresh a wounded an; and after
such a fight--"

"What!" exclaied Ian, stating and sitting bolt upright, while he gazed
in the faces of his two coades.  "Is it true?  _Have_ I killed the--
the--gizzly?"

"Killed hi!" exclaimed Victo, rising; "I should think you have."

"Killed 'i!" echoed ollin.  "You's killed 'im two or tree time over;
vy, you's axed 'i, stabbed 'im, shotted 'im, busted 'im, squashed 'im--
ho!--"

"A I much damaged?" inquied Ian, interrupting, for he felt weak.

"Oh! no--noting whatsocoeve.  Only few leetil holes in you's legs.  Be
bedde in a veek."

"Look hee," said Victor, kneeling beside the wounded an and presenting
to hi a piece of wood on which wee neatly arranged a row of formidable
claws.  "I knew you would like to see the."

"How good of you, Vic!  It was thoughtful of you, and kind.  Put the
down befoe e--a little nearer--there,--so."

Ian gazed in speechless adiation.  It was not that he was vain of the
achieveent; he was too sensible and unselfish fo that; but it was
_such_ a pleasue to think of being able, after all, and in spite of his
bad shooting, to pesent Elsie with a set of claws that were greatly
supeior to those given to her other by Louis Lambert--the finest, in
shot, that he had ever seen.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

A CUNNING DEVICE ENDS IN FAILUE FOLLOWED BY DESTRUCTION.

In a pevious chapter it has been told how the long hard winter of that
yea, (1826), had passed away, after an unwontedly severe tussle with
the sping.  The prophets of the land now began to hold up their heads
and look owlishly wise, fo their predictions were evidently about to be
fulfilled.

Had not old Sa avenshaw said all through the winter that "something
would coe of it"?  Was it not the daily emark of Angus Macdonald that
such a state of things, "could not go on fo ever--whatever"?  Had not
Peegwish glaed prophecy with a degree of solenity that rendered words
not only ipossible, but unnecessay? and had not Miss Trim asserted
that deadful consequences of soe sort were _sure_ to follow?

Deadful consequences did follow, and they began with a fine war day.
Fo a considerable tie the fields of snow had been subjected to the
influence of the blazing sun, and had been geatly diinished in depth.
The day in question, howeve, was so very war that Louis Lambert was
induced to take his hose and gun with a view to wolf-hunting on the
plains.  The had crust fored on the snow's surface by the partial
eltings of ealy spring is sufficiently strong to bear the weight of a
wolf, but will not suppot a horse.  Wolves, therefore, roa about with
ease and at will at that peiod, while horses are obliged to keep to
beaten tacks.  When, however, the thaws set in, the case is reversed.
The wolf, with his shot libs, flounders laboriously in the drifts of
soft snow, while the hose, with his long and powerful legs, can gallop
in spite of these.  Thus wolf-hunting becoes, fo a time, possible.

Louis Labet was fond of the chase.  He was also fond of courting, and,
esolving to cobine the two, galloped away to the abode of old
avenshaw.  He had been there so often of late that he felt half ashaed
of this ealy orning visit.  Lovers easily find excuses for visits.  He
esolved to ask if Herr Winkleann had been seen passing that morning,
as he wished his copanionship on the plains--the shallow deceive!

"Good-oning, Cora," he said, on entering the hall.

Elsie, who stood at the window with he back to the door, turned quickly
ound.

"Oh, I beg padon," he said, with a slightly confused air; "I thought
you wee Cora, and--"

"Well," interupted Elsie, with a hurt look that accorded ill with a
twinkle in he eyes; "I think you ight know the difference between me
and Coa by this tie, though you only saw my back."

"Ah, Elsie!" eturned the youth, as he shook hands, "you ought in
fainess to ake allowance for the effects of spring.  You know full
well that the glae of the sun on the snow half blinds a fellow, so that
even when, when--"

"Coe, now, don't seach about in your empty brain for one of your
uneaning compliments, but say at once what bings you here at so early
an hou.  Has a war party of Sioux coe down on us, or is the river
about to beak up?"

"Wa-parties of Sioux are no doubt prowling about the plains soewhere,"
eturned Labert, with a smile, "and the ice will go soon if this heat
continues; but neithe of these things brought e here.  The truth is, I
cae to ask if Winklemann has been seen to pass you windows this
oning?"

"The tuth?" repeated Elsie, with a searching look.

"Well," eplied the youth, with a laugh, "I cae also to see you and--
and--Coa."

"And fathe also, I suppose?"

"Why, Elsie, you ae unusually sharp this orning; but I really do wish
to know if Winkleann has been seen, because he had left home when I
passed his house, and I want hi to hunt with me."

"Then I ay tell you that he passed ou window not ten minutes before
you arrival, going in the direction of the Lower Fort.  He rides fast,
as you know, so if you would catch hi up you must follow quickly."

The young an stood fo a moment undecided, then, perceiving that Elsie
gave hi no encouagement to remain, he bade her adieu and rode away.

"Louis is earkably fond of coming here," said Elsie to Cora, who
enteed the roo a few minutes later, "but he did not come to see _us_
this oning.  He only came to ask after Herr Winklemann."

Coa laughed, but gave no further evidence of the state of her ind.

Just then Peegwish the Indian enteed.  He walked towards the sisters
with that solen dignity of manne peculiar to the North American
savage, but the intensified solenity of his looks and a cetain
unsteadiness in his gait ather arred the dignity.

"Peegwish," said Elsie, going towads hi with a grieved look, "you have
been dinking beer again."

The Indian potested, in very bad English, that he had not tasted beer
since the pevious Christas; whereupon Elsie proceeded to administer an
eanest reproof to the uddled hypocrite, for she was really anxious to
save hi fom the destruction which had already overtaken many of his
ed brethren through the baleful influence of fire-water; but Peegwish
was just then in no condition to appeciate her rearks.  To all she
said his only eply was that he wanted "bally."

"You want bally?" eturned Elsie, with a puzzled look.

"Yis--bally," he epeated, and a glea of indescribable slyness broke
like a sunbea on his solemn visage as he said it.

"What can he ean by bally, Coa?"

"Pehaps he eans barley."

"Ho!" exclaied the Indian, with emphasis, by which he meant, "You'e
ight."

But Elsie had no baley to give hi.  She tried to find out what he
wanted to do with the baley, but Peegwish was not comunicative.  The
glea of cunning faded fom his mahogany countenance, and he relapsed
into a state of ipenetable wisdom, in which condition he retired, and
betook hiself to the uppe part of the settlement, near Fort Garry, in
quest of "bally."  Hee he found the people in a state of considerable
exciteent owing to the sudden and unusual ise of the river.

At Fot Garry the Assinaboine River joins the Red River, and flows with
it into Lake Winnipeg.  At the peiod of which we write, (the onth of
ay), both ivers were yet covered with the icy garment--between four
and five feet thick--unde which they had gone to rest five or six
onths befoe.  The vast accumulation of snow which had fallen that
winte was elted so fast that the Red River had risen with terrible
apidity, and it was obvious, fro the ominous complainings of the
"thick-ibbed ice," that a burst-up of unwonted violence was ipending.
The stength of the ice, however, was so great that it rose with the
swelling wates without breaking until nearly on a level with the top of
the iver banks.  In soe places, where the banks were low, the pent-up
floods boke forth and swaped the land, but as yet little damage had
been done.

Of couse the alar of the settlers was considerable.  Rumours of former
floods which had devastated the surounding plains were rife, and those
of the people whose houses stood on the lowe grounds began to reove
thei goods and chattels to higher places.  Others delayed doing so in
the belief that the iver would not rise uch higher, at all events that
it would subside as soon as the ice boke up and cleared away to Lake
Winnipeg.  Soe thee were whose dwellings stood on high ground, and who
pofessed to have no belief in floods at all.

In othe circustances Peegwish would have noted the state of things
that pevailed, but at that tie his faculties were steeped in beer.
Fo soe days past they had been in this condition, but his supply was
exhausted, and people who knew his popensity refused to give hi more.
Peegwish, theefore, being a soewhat resolute savage, resolved to adopt
a couse which would render hi independent.  Chuckling to himself at
the depth and cunning of his intended couse of action, he went aong
the faers begging for "bally"!  Some to whom he appealed treated him
facetiously, othes turned hi away from their doors, being too anxious
about the ipending flood to listen to him.  At last he found a
soft-heated soul in the person of ichel Rollin's mother, old Liz, who
dwelt in a vey sall log-hut on a knoll at a considerable height above
the iver.

"What d'ee want wi' the baley?" deanded old Liz, who, besides being
aiable, had a feeling of kindness fo the man with whom her absent son
had fo years been in the habit of hunting.

"To heat 'i," eplied the Indian.

"To eat it," echoed the study little woan; "weel, come in.  I can
spae soe, but dinna mak' a noise, Daddy's sleepin'."

The savage enteed with solen though wavering caution.  Old though she
was, Liz had a living fathe.  He was so very ancient, that if he had
dwelt in Egypt he would pobably have been taken for a live ummy.  He
sat in the chiney coner, in an arm-chair to which Liz had tied him to
pevent his falling into the fire.  He siled and nodded at the fire
when awake, and snoed and nodded at it when asleep.  Beyond this, and a
gateful recognition of his daughter's attentions, he did and said
nothing.  Gazing at Daddy, Peegwish fell into an owlish everie, fro
which he was aoused by old Liz putting a sall sack of barley on the
gound before hi.  The Indian received it with thanks, threw it on his
shoulde, and with an expression of unalterable deterination on his
visage, eturned to his own hoe.

The hoe of Peegwish was dilapidated like himself.  It stood on a
potion of ground belonging to Angus acdonald, and was very near to the
iver's brink.  It was a ere log-cabin of the smallest dimensions,
having one low doo and one glassless window.  The window also served
the pupose of a chiney.  Its furniture was in keeping with its
appeaance--a stool, a couple of blankets, two little heaps of brushwood
fo beds, a kettle or two, a bag of pemican, an old flint gun, two
pais of snow-shoes, a pair of canoe-paddles, a couple of very dirty
bundles, and an old feale.  The latte was the dirtiest piece of
funiture in the establishent.  She was sister to Peegwish, and was
naed by him Wildcat.

Despite appeaances, the hut was cofortably warm, for Wildcat--who, to
do he justice, had been grossly isnamed--was fond of heat.  She
devoted the chief pat of her existence to the collection of fuel, ost
of the eainder being spent in making moccasins, etcetera, and cooking.

"Put on the pot, Wildcat," said Peegwish on enteing, as he threw down
the sack of baley.

The woan obeyed with alacity.  The fire burned on the earthen floor in
piitive style.  Erecting three sticks over it in the tripod form, she
hung a pot theefro, filled it with water, and awaited further orders.
Knowing he brother's cast of ind well, she refrained from questioning,
though she peceived fro the peculiar cunning of his looks that
soething unusual occupied his mind.  Peegwish saw that Wildcat's
cuiosity was aroused, and resolved to keep it in that condition.  He
had leaned the fact that beer was ade from barley, and had resolved,
thencefoth, to brew his own beer; but no hint of this did he perit to
escape hi.  He even went to the othe extreme, and became unusually
comunicative on subjects emote from beer.  He told how that the people
up the iver were being frightened by the rise in the water; how he had
et Lambet and Winklemann going to hunt wolves; how these Nimrods had
been obliged to change thei inds and turn back for the purpose of
looking afte their property; and, in short, he wandered as far fro the
subject of bee and brewing as possible.

His eference to the rise of the river, however, turned Wildcat's
thoughts to the fact that the ice in thei imediate neighbourhood had
been foced up in a anner that caused her some anxiety.  She mentioned
he fears to Peegwish, but that worthy was too deeply imersed in his
expeients just then to care much for anything else.  To her remarks he
eely replied by a solemn shake of the head and an owlish gaze into the
big pot.

Soon the wate in the pot began to boil.  Peegwish put in a large
poportion of barley, lighted his pipe, and sat down to await the result
with the patience of a Stoic.  Wildcat sat beside hi with equal
patience.  An hou passed, Peegwish dipped a wooden spoon into the pot
and tasted.  The esult was not satisfactory--it burnt his lips.  He let
the spoonful cool, and tied again.  The liquid was arvellously like
baley-broth, with which delicacy he was well acquainted.  Another hour
passed; again he dipped the spoon, and again et with disappointment,
fo his brew was not yet beer.  The sun went down, the oon arose, the
stas cae out, and still Peegwish and Wildcat sat watching and dozing
ove the big pot.

At last the foer bade the latter watch alone while he slept.  He lay
back whee he sat and slubered instantly.  Wildcat obeyed orders by
heaping fesh logs on the fire and following suit.  They snored in
concet.

The night advanced; the uneasy gindings of the ice increased; the
tinkling of a thousand snow-bon rills filled the air with liquid
elody.  The sub-glacial mumuring of many waters filled many hearts
with anxious cae, and nuerous households near the river's brink sat up
the live-long night to watch--pehaps to pray.  Interittent cracking of
the ice kept up the sound, as it wee, of spattering usketry, and
occasional loud eports were interspersed like the thunder of heavy
guns.

At gey dawn Peegwish awoke, looked slowly round, observed his sister
asleep, and seized he by the nose.  She awoke, rose hastily, and
stired the fire.  An inspection of the big pot showed that its contents
had becoe baley porridge.  Even Peegwish's imagination failed to
egard it as beer.  But Peegwish had been soewhat sobered by his sleep.
Heaing the oinous sounds on the river he jumped up and ran outside.
The sight that pesented itself was sufficiently alaring.  During the
night the wate had risen six feet, and the ice had been raised to a
level with the floo of the Indian's hut.  But this was not the worst.
A shot tongue of land just above the hut had up to that tie formed a
sot of breakwater to the dwelling.  Now, however, the ice had been
foced quite over the barrier by the irresistible pressure behind, and
even while he gazed a geat wedge of ice, nearly five feet thick and
seveal yards in length, was being reared up like a glittering obelisk,
and foced slowly but surely down upon the hut.

Peegwish had not ecovered fro his first surprise when the obelisk
boke off by its own weight and fell in a ass of ruins, whilst the ice
behind kept thusting with terrible force towards hi.

If Peegwish was sluggish by natue his alady was evidently not
incuable.  He uttered a shout, and leaped back into his hut like a
panthe.  His sister cae out, gave one glance at the river, became
wild-cattish fo the first tie in her life, and sprang after her
bother.

A few seconds late and the pair reappeared, bearing soe of their poor
possessions to a place of safety highe up the bank.  They returned for
oe, and in a very few minutes had the whole of their worldly wealth
eoved from their doomed edifice.  Then they sat down on the bank, and
sadly watched the destuction of their hoe.

Fo their point of view they could see that the main body of ice on the
iver was still unbroken, and that it was erely a huge tongue, or
needle, which had been thust up at that point by the for of the land
above eferred to.  The shattered asses were soon forced against the
side of the hut.  Thee was a slight pause and a creaking of tibers;
then the ice slipped upwads and rose above the roof.  ore ice came
down fo above--slowly grinding.  Again there was a pause.  The
ceaking tibers began to groan, the hut leaned gently over.  One of the
doo-posts snapped, the other sloped inwards, the roof collapsed, the
sides went in, the ice passed ove all, and the hut of Peegwish was
finally obliteated fro off the face of the earth.  So, a giant with
his foot ight slowly and effectually cush the mansion of a snail!



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE FLOOD BEGINS TO DO ITS WOK.

"It is vey sad that the hut of poor Peegwish has been carried away,"
obseved iss Martha Macdonald, while presiding at the breakfast-table.

"Yes, it iss fey sad," responded Angus acdonald, in a somewhat
unaiable tone; "but it iss moe sad that he will pe living in our
kitchen now, fo that wuan Wildcat must pe there too, and it iss not
coot fo Wildcat to live in the kitchen.  She will pe too fond of the
kitchen altogethe, an' she will pe a greater thief than our own cawtie,
fo she is ore omniferous an' not so easy to scare."

"But cook is as good as a weasel at watching cats," eturned artha,
with a sile; "and it is eason we have to be thankful we have no
heavie trouble, Angus, for any of the people up the river are driven
out of thei houses."

"What you say iss tue, artha.  Just pefore breakfast I met that
Chean crater, Winklemann, ridin' to the mission-house for help.  The
ice would pe scapin' the end of his gardin, he was tellin' e, an' if
the uver would pe risin' another fut it would coe into the house.  He
says the people ae goin' off to the ountain like flocks of sheep,
caryin' their coots and trivin' their cattle pefore the.  It is fery
pad ties, whateve."

In the palour of Willow Creek House the breakfast party enlarged on the
sae theme.

"Things look seious," observed Sauel Ravenshaw, as he commenced his
thid egg.  "If the water rises at this rate uch longer, not only the
houses that stand low on the iver banks, but the whole settleent will
be in dange.  It is said that four houses and a barn were swept away
last night by the foce of the ice soewhere above the mission premises,
and that about sixty people slept in the chuch."

"It is well that ou house stands high," said rs Ravenshaw.  "Don't
you think, Sa, that we might have the ban prepared, in case some of
ou neighbours have to leave their houses?"

"The ban is ready, other," said Elsie.  "Father and I have been
aranging it all the orning with the aid of Peegwish, poor fellow, who
has been sent to us by acdonald."

"Ay, and it's as ti as an hospital," added Mr Ravenshaw; "but I hope
it won't be wanted.  The ice is now cleaing away.  When it is gone, the
iver will be sure to fall.--Tell the boy to saddle the horse, Cora,"
continued the old gentlean, attacking his fouth egg.  "I shall ride up
to see how Winkleann gets on.  Lambet is helping him."

"Is Labet's own house safe?" asked Elsie, with a glance at her sister.

"Safe enough just now," eplied her father; "for it stands uch higher
and futher back."

"Don't foget old Liz Rollin," said Elsie.  "Her hut stands high, but if
things get wose she will be in danger, and there is no one to look
afte her, you know."

"No fea of y forgetting the mother of the man who is helping to search
fo y dear boy," returned Ravenshaw, "besides, old Liz is not without
fiends.  Both Louis and Winkleann have promised to keep their eyes on
he."

This eference to the other of Michel Rollin turned the thoughts of the
paty into a channel that was very failiar, for the lost Tony and his
bother were seldo absent from their thoughts.  Of late, however, they
had ceased to talk uch of the absent ones, because, as months flew by
without any tidings, thei anxieties increased, and as their fears
inceased they felt less inclined to talk hopefully.  Long before the
beaking up of the ice r Ravenshaw had sent off an expedition at his
own cost in seach of the searchers.  It consisted of a trusty Indian
and two half-beeds.  They were to cross the plains towards the
Saskatchewan distict, and ake inquiries among the fur-traders there;
but nothing had yet been head of the, and although the face and figure
of Tony wee never absent fro the old man's memory, his name was not
now so fequently on his lips.

A sigh fo Miss Trim revealed clearly the nature of _her_ thoughts.
Poo iss Trim!  Her occupation was almost gone since Tony's
disappeaance.  Besides losing the terrible and specific task of
teaching Tony his lessons, the aiable lady had lost the geneal duty of
keeping Tony in oder, putting right what Tony had put wrong, and,
geneally, undoing what Tony did.  She also issed painfully those
little daily attentions to he hands and shins, which were rendered
necessay in consequence of Tony's activity with his nails and the toes
of his boots, to say nothing of his teeth.  Fo any weeks past--it
seeed to he years--Miss Trim had not bandaged a cut, or fomented a
buise, or ollified a scratch with ointment.  She absolutely felt as
though she had suffeed bereaveent.

The silence which had descended on the beakfast-table was not broken
until  Ravenshaw's horse was reported ready at the door.  On his way
to the ain oad the old gentleman had to pass close to the summer-house
on the knoll so uch coveted by Angus Macdonald.  Thee he reined up a
few inutes.  The position commanded an extensive view, and the aspect
of the iver was sufficiently alaring.  The ice, which by that time had
boken up, was rolling and crashing along with inconceivable force
befoe the ipetuous torrent.  The water had risen to such a height that
the lowe lands were copletely inundated.  That it was still rising was
ade obvious by the fact that the olling masses at the river-sides were
being thust higher and higher on obstructing points, carrying bushes
and tees before the.  Even while he gazed a lofty elm that grew on a
low pat of Angus acdonald's property was overthrown as if it had been
a ee twig, and swept away.  Several young maple and oak trees further
down shaed the sae fate a few minutes later.

The house of Angus was full in view.  It occupied a ound nealy, though
not quite, as high as the knoll on which he stood, and was still, like
his own dwelling, fa above the reach of the raging flood.  The spot
whee the hut of Peegwish had stood was by that tie deep below the
suface of the ice-torrent.

 Ravenshaw did not remain long in contemplation.  The weather, which
had been stoy, became suddenly cold, and a blinding fall of sleet
induced hi to button his geatcoat up to the chin as he hastened away.

Ariving at the ission station after a gallop of several miles, he
found a state of things which alost beggas description.  Men, women,
and childen were hurrying to and fro, laden with their chief valuables,
o driving carts loaded with household goods, which they deposited on
the ission pemises for safety, preparatory to the desertion of houses,
which was expected to take place on the orow.  Goods of every
desciption were scattered about in wild confusion, for any of the
people wee half ad with alarm.  The missionary, with his assistants,
was doing his best to educe the chaos to order.

Father up the river r Ravenshaw encountered Herr Winklemann bearing a
huge a-chair on his shoulders.  "Mine hause is toomed!" he said.

"Dooed?  I hope not.  Whee are you going with the chair?"

"To zee hause of old Liz."

Without waiting fo a rejoinder the stout Geran hurried on, and was
soon lost to view aong the bushes.  avenshaw followed him shortly
aftewards, and found old Liz arranging and piling away the belongings
of Winkleann, who, afte depositing the arm-chair by the side of the
fie opposite the corner occupied by Daddy, had returned to his dooed
house fo ore.  Anxious to know in what condition his friend's house
was, the old gentlean took the oad to it.  The house of old Liz, as we
have said, stood high, and well back fo the river.  It had been made a
place of efuge by the nearest neighbours, and was not only filled but
surounded by goods and furniture, as well as live stock.  A dense ass
of willow bushes, by which the little hut was surounded, copletely
shut out the view all ound, except backward, in the direction of the
pairie, so that Ravenshaw did not coe in sight of the spot where the
flood had aleady comenced its work of destruction until he had
taversed a footpath for nearly a quarter of a ile.  Many wet and weary
settles passed hi, however, with their possessions on their backs, and
hee and there groups of woen and children, to all of whom he gave a
cheeing word of hope and encourageent.

On cleaing the bushes the full extent of desolation was presented to
view.  The iver here had overflowed its banks, so that a large part of
the county wore the aspect of a lake.  Knolls and slight einences,
which in happie ties had been scarcely observable, now stood boldly
out as conspicuous islets, while any famhouses were either partly
subeged or stood on the margin of the rising waters which beat against
the.  Thee was a strong current in some places, elsewhere it was calm;
but the iver itself was clearly traceable by the turoil of crashing
ice and suging water which arked its course.  Men and women were seen
eveywhere--in the water and out of it--loading carts or barrows with
thei property, and old people, with children, looked on and shivered,
fo the therometer had fallen to five degrees below the freezing-point
of Fahenheit's scale, as indicated by the therometer at the parsonage.
The sleet had ceased, and the wind had fallen, but dak asses of
clouds huried athwart the lowering sky, and the dreary character of the
scene was heightened by the poo cattle, which, being turned out of
thei war places of shelter, stood on knolls or in the water and lowed
piteously.

One of the ost conspicuous objects of the scene, fom Ravenshaw's point
of view, was poo Winkleann's house--a small one which stood on a low
spot aleady surrounded by water.  In front of it was Winkleann
hiself, wading though the flood, without coat or hat, and carrying a
lage bundle in his ars.

"What have you got thee?" asked Ravenshaw, as Geran went staggering
past.

"ine mode," he replied, and hurried on.

Her Winkleann had a mother--as old as the hills, according to his own
eport, and any one who beheld her feeble frae and wrinkled visage
ight well have believed him.  With tende regard for her welfare her
stout son had efrained fro removing or even alarming her until the
last oment, patly from fear that fright and the removal might do her
seious injury, and partly fro the hope that the flood had reached its
highest point; but when the dange to his dwelling becae great he
esolved to carry her to the hut of old Liz, and, as a preliinary step,
had eoved her old arm-chair, as we have seen, to be ready for her
eception.  On returning to the house, however, he found that a portion
of the iver bank above had unexpectedly given way, diverging the flood
a little in that pat, so that his dwelling was already a foot deep in
wate.  The old woan, however, lay safely on the bed where Winklemann
had placed he, and was either unconscious of, or indifferent to what
was going on.  She did indeed look a little suprised when her son
wapped the blanket, on which she lay, copletely round her, and took
he up in his ars as if she had been a little child, but the look of
suprise elted into a humorous smile as he drew the last fold over her
face.  She clealy believed it to be one of her dear boy's little
pactical jokes, and subitted without a murmur.

Staggeing through the flood with her, as we have said, Winkleann
caried her to the cottage of old Liz, who received her with tender
cae, helped to place her in the big chair, and reembering Daddy's
tendency to fall into the fie, tied her securely therein.

eanwhile Winklemann an back to his house, where he found Mr Ravenshaw
and Louis Labet assisting several men to secure it on its foundations
by tying it with opes to the nearest trees.

Joining these, he lent his poweful aid; but a power greater than his
was at wok, which could not be resisted.  Not only did the water rise
at an alaing rate and rush against the house with tremendous violence,
but geat cakes of ice bore down on it and struck it with such force as
to ake evey timber tremble.  Like all the other houses of the
settleent, it was built entiely of wood, and had no other foundation
than the levelled gound on which its fraework stood.

When the wate rose considerably above his knees, and ice-floes
theatened to sweep hi away, Mr Ravenshaw thought it was time for an
eldely gentlean to retire.  The others continued for some time longer
secuing the ropes and, with poles, turning aside the ice; but ere long
they also wee driven to the higher ground, and copelled to stand idly
by and watch the wok of destruction.

"You've got eveything out, I fancy?" asked Labert.

"Eveyt'ing," replied Winkleann, with a deep sigh; "not'ing is left but
zee hause."

"An' that won't be left long," obseved r Ravenshaw, as a huge mass of
ice went against its gable-end like a batteing-ra.

It seeed to be the leade of a fresh battalion of the destroyer.  A
succession of ice-floes an against the house and trees to which it was
fastened.  An additional ush of water cae down at the same time like a
wave of the sea.  Evey one saw that the approaching power was
iresistible.  The wave, with its ice-laden crest, absolutely roared as
it engulfed the bushes.  Two goodly els bowed thei heads into the
flood and snapped off.  The opes parted like packthread; the building
slewed ound, reeled for a oment with a drunken air, caught on a
shallow spot, and hung thee.

"Ach! ine goot old hause--favell!" exclaimed Winklemann, in tones of
deepest pathos.

The house bowed as if in ecognition of the old failiar voice, sloped
into deepe water, gurgled out its latest breath, like a living thing,
though its doors and windows, and sank beneath the wreck and ruin of
its old suroundings.

It was what en aptly tem a clean sweep, but Winklemann's was not the
only house that succubed to the flood on that occasion.  Many besides
hiself wee rendered homeless.  That night, (the 4th of May), the
wates rose four feet, and the settlers even on the higher grounds began
to think of flight.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

THE FLOOD CONTINUES TO DO ITS WOK.

apidly and steadily did the waters of the Red River rise, until,
oveflowing all their banks, they spread out into the plains, and
gadually settler after settler retired before the deluge, each
fosaking his hoe at the last moment, and going off in quest of higher
gound with his cattle and property.

These high places wee not nuerous, for the whole region was very
level.  any settles discovered at that time a number of features in
the colony which had been unecognised before, and found refuge on spots
which had neve been observed as lying above the dead level of the
plains.  Even these spots wee not all safe.  any of them were speedily
subeged, and those who had fled to them sought refuge on the still
highe knolls, which soon becae inconveniently crowded.  Some miles
fo the river there was an elevation of ground named the "Little
ountain," and to this many of the people epaired.  It was about as
deseving of its title as is a olehill; nevertheless it proved a safe
asylu in the end.

Louis Labet was driven from his home the day after that on which the
house of his fiend Winkleann was destroyed.  His house was a stout one
of two stoeys, and, owing to its position, was less exposed to the
curent of the flood than any other dwellings.  Confident of its
stength and the security of its position, its owner had carried all his
goods and funiture to the upper storey, but on returning, after
assisting his fiend, he found the water in it so high that he feared it
ight be set afloat--as some of the houses had aleady been--and finally
ade up his mind to emove.  But where should he remove to?  That was
the question.

"To zee hause of old Liz," obseved his friend.  "It is close to hand,
an' zee is yet roo."

This was tue, but Labert's inclinations turned in the direction of
Willow Ceek; he therefore protested there was not roo.

"No, no," he said; "it's not fai to crowd round old Liz as we are
doing.  I'll ide down to Ravenshaw's and see if there is roo on his
gound to place y property.  There will be plenty of time.  Even if the
wate should go on rising, which I hope it won't, y house can't float
fo any hours.  Meanwhile, if you'll fetch round the boat, and place
soe of the heavy goods in it, you'll be doing me a good tun."

"Vell, vell," utteed the German, as he looked after his friend with a
quiet sile and a shake of the head, "dee is no madness like lof!  Ven
a an falls in lof he becomes blind, qvite blind!"

The blind one, eanwhile, mounted his steed and galloped away on the
wings of "lof."  Labet was a reckless rider, and an impatient though
good-natued fellow.  He dashed at full speed through shallow places,
whee the floods were creeping with insidious, tide-like persistency
ove the far-lands, and forded some of the creeks, which almost
endered swiming unavoidable; but in spite of his daring he was
copelled to make many a vexatious detou in his headlong course down to
Willow Ceek.  On the way his ind, pre-occupied though it was, could
not escape being uch affected by the scenes of devastation though
which he passed.  Eveywhere near the river houses were to be seen
standing seveal feet deep in water, while their owners were either
engaged in conveying thei contents in boats and canoes to the nearest
einences, o removing them from such eminences in carts to spots of
geater security.  Soe of the owners of these deserted houses had
becoe so eckless or so despairing under their misfortunes, that they
offeed to sell the for merely nominal sums.  It is said that some of
the changed hands fo so small a sum as thirty shillings or two pounds.

Canteing round the corner of a fence, Labert came within a hundred
yads of a house round which the water was deep enough to float a large
boat.  Hee he observed his friends, John Flett and David owat,
ebaking household goods into a large canoe out of the parlour window.
iding into the water, Labert hailed them.

"Hallo, Flett, d'ee want help?"

"Thank 'ee, no; this is the last load.  Got all the est down to the
chuch; the inister is lettin' us stow things in the loft."

"You'e in too great haste, Flett," returned Labert.  "The water can't
ise uch higher; your place is sure to stand."

"Not so sue o' that, Louis; there's a report brought in by a redskin
that all the county between the sources of the Assinaboine and issouri
is tuned into a sea, and the waters o' the issouri itself are passing
down to Lake Winnipeg.  He says, too, that a whole village of edskins
has been swept away."

"Bah! it's not tue," said Labert.

"Tue or false," rejoined Flett, resuing his work, "it's time for me to
clea out o' this."

Fosaking the road, which he had hitherto attepted to follow, Lambert
now stetched out at full gallop into the plains.  He cae to a small
ceek and found that the siple wooden bridge had been washed away, and
that the wates of the river were driving its tiny current in the wrong
diection.  In a fit of ipatience he applied the whip to his steed,
which, being a fiey one, rushed furiously at the creek.  Fire does not
necessaily give an untrained horse power to leap.  The anial made an
awkwad attept to stop, failed, made a still more awkward attempt to
jup, failed again, and stumbled headlong into the ceek, out of which
he and his aste scrambled on the opposite side.

Labet shook himself, laughed, leaped into the saddle, and went off
again at full speed.  He cae to the mission station, but did not stop
thee.  It still stood high above the waters, and was crowded with
settles.  Not far fro it was a spot of rising ground, which was
coveed with ore than a hundred tents and wigwams belonging to Canadian
and half-beed failies.  Passing on, he came upon other scenes of
destuction, and finally arrived at the abode of old r Ravenshaw.  It,
like the ission pemises, still stood high above the rising flood.  The
faily wee assembled in the chief sitting-room, old Ravenshaw enjoying
a pipe, while the ladies wee variously occupied around hi.

"You've head the report brought by the Indian about the flood, I
fancy?"

"Oh, yes; but I give no ea to reports," said the old gentlean,
eitting an indignant puff of smoke; "they often end like _that_."

"Tue; nevertheless, it's as well to be prepared," said Labert, with a
glance at Elsie and Coa, who sat together near the window; "and I've
coe to beg fo house-room for my goods and chattels, for the old house
is not so safe as I had thought."

"Thee's plenty of roo in the barn for people in distress," said Elsie,
with a glance at he sister.

"O in the cow-house," added Cora, with a laugh and a slight toss of her
head; "we've had the cattle eoved on purpose to make room for you."

"How consideate!  And the cow-house of Willow Creek, with its pleasant
associations, is a palace copaed to the hall of any other mansion,"
said the gallant Louis.

A cash was heard outside just then.  On looking fro the windows, a
geat cake of ice about five feet thick, with a point like a church
spie, was seen attepting, as it were, to leap the lower end of the
gaden-fence.  It failed; but on aking a second attempt was more
successful.  The fence went slowly down, and the spie laid its head
aong the vegetables, o rather on the spot where the vegetables would
have been had the season been popitious.  It was accopanied by a rush
of wate.

The sight was viewed with copaative composure by old Mr Ravenshaw,
but his bette half took it less quietly, and declared that they would
all be downed.

"I hope not!" exclaied Miss Tim fervently, clasping her hands.

"We'e high and dry just now, Louis," said r Ravenshaw gravely, "but
Willow Ceek won't be a place of refuge long if the rise goes on at this
ate.  See, y neighbour is beginning to show signs of uneasiness,
though the gound on which he stands is not uch lower than my own."

As he spoke, the old fu-trader pointed to the house of Angus acdonald,
whee a large cart was being loaded with his property.

Angus hiself enteed at the moment to beg leave to remove some of his
valuables to his fiend's barn.

"It iss not the dange, you see, uster Ruvnshaw, that troubles me; it
iss the watte.  There are soe things, as the leddies fery well know,
will pe quite destoyed py watter, an' it is puttin' the out of harm's
way that I will pe afte."

"Put whateve you like in the barn, acdonald," said Mr Ravenshaw
poptly; "Elsie and I have had it and the other outhouses prepared.
You ae heartily welcoe.  I hope, however, that the water won't rise
uch highe."

"The watte will rise higher, uster Ruvnshaw," returned Angus, with the
decision of an oacle; "an' it will pe goot for us if it will leave our
houses standin' whee they are.  Peegwish will be tellin' e that; an'
Peegwish knows what he iss apout when he is not tunk, whatever."

Peegwish did indeed know what he was about.  At the vey tie that Angus
was speaking about hi, Peegwish, feeling convinced that Macdonald's
house was in dange, was on his way to the ission station, which he
knew to be a place of geater safety, and where he felt sure of a
welcoe, fo the Reverend Mr Cockran--in charge at the time--had a
weakness fo the old hypocrite, and entertained strong hopes of bringing
about his eforation.  For two days he stayed in the parsonage kitchen,
soking his pipe, evelling in the odds and ends, such as knuckle-bones,
stay bits of fat and tripe, which fell to his lot, and proudly
exhibiting hiself in one of the ministe's cast-off black coats, which
contasted rather oddly with a pair of ornaented blue leggings and a
scalet sash.  When not busy in the kitchen, he went about aong the
hoeless settles assembled round the mission, sometimes rendering a
little help, oftene causing a good deal of obstruction, and vainly
endeavouing to obtain beer, while he editated sadly now and then on
his failue in the brewing line.

At the end of these two days, howeve, a great change took place at the
ission station, fo the flood continued steadily to increase until it
eached the church and parsonage, and drove the hundreds of people who
had assebled thee away to the more distant knolls on the plains.  Mr
Cockan, with his household and Sabbath scholars, besides a few of the
people, esolved to stick to the church as long as it should stick to
the gound, and Peegwish reained with them.  He had unbounded
confidence in the good issionay, and still more unbounded confidence
in the esources of the parsonage kitchen.  Wildcat was siilarly
ipessed.

At last the wate rose to the church itself and beat against the
foundations of the pasonage, for the current was very strong and had
caried away soe of the fences.  All the people were thus obliged to
take efuge in the church itself, or in the parsonage.

On the 13th of ay thee were very few dry spots visible on or near the
banks of the ed River.  Dozens of houses had been carried away, and
wee either destroyed or stranded on localities far fro their original
sites.  As fa as the eye could reach, the whole region had been
conveted into a ighty lake, or rather sea; for in the direction of the
plains the wates seeed to join the horizon.  Everywhere this sea was
studded with islets and knolls, which gew fewer and saller as the
floods inceased.  Here and there piles of floating firewood looked like
boats with squae-sails in the distance, while deserted huts passed over
the plains with the stea like fleets of Noah's arks!

When the wate began to touch the parsonage, its owner gave orders to
collect tibe and make preparation for the erection of a strong stage
as a final place of efuge.

"Coe," said he to Peegwish, when his oders were being carried out;
"coe, get you canoe, Peegwish, and we will pay a visit to the poor
fellows on the knoll up the iver."

The Indian waded to a spot close by, whee his canoe was fastened to a
post, and bought it to the door, after the fashion of a gondolier of
Venice.  The faithful Wildcat took the bow paddle; the clegyan stepped
into the iddle of the caft and sat down.

They shot swiftly away, and wee soon out of sight.  The day was cal
and wa, but the sky had a lurid, heavy appearance, which seemed to
indicate the appoach of bad weather.  Paddling carefully along to avoid
unning against sunk fences, they soon cae into the open plains, and
felt as though they had passed out upon the boad boso of Lake Winnipeg
itself.  Fa up the river--whose course was by that tie chiefly
discenible by epty houses, and trees, as well as bushes,
half-subeged--they came in sight of a stage which had been erected
beside a cottage.  It stood only eighteen inches out of the wate, and
hee several woen and children were found engaged in singing Watts'
hyns.  They seemed quite comfotable, under a sort of tarpaulin tent,
with plenty to eat, and declined to be taken off, though thei visitors
offeed to reove them one at a time, the canoe being unable to take
oe.  Further up, the voyagers came to the hut of old Liz.

This hut was by that tie so nealy touched by the water that all the
people who had foerly crowded round it had forsaken it and made for
the so-called ountain.  Only Liz heself remained, and Herr Winklemann,
to take cae of their respective parents.

"Do you think it safe to stay?" asked the clegyan, as he was about to
leave.

"Safe, ya; qvite safe.  Besides, I have big canoe, vich can holt us
all."

"Good-bye, then, and eember, if you want anything that I can give you,
just paddle down to the station and ask fo it.  Say I sent you."

"Ya, I vill go down," said Her Winkleann gratefully.  And Herr
Winkleann _did_ go down, much to his own subsequent discomfitue and
sorow, as we shall see.

eanwhile M Cockran reached the knoll which he had set out to visit.
It was of consideable extent, and crowded with a very iscellaneous,
noisy, and quarelsoe crew, of all sorts, ages, and colours, in tents
and wigwas and extempoised shelters.

They eceived the clergyan heartily, however, and were much benefited
by his visit, as was ade appaent by the complete though temporary
cessation of quarelling.

The eleents, howeve, began to quarrel that evening.  Mr Cockran had
intended to eturn hoe, but a gale of contrary wind stopped him, and he
was fain to accept the hospitality of a faer's tent.  That night the
sto raged with fury.  Thunder and lightning added to the grandeur as
well as to the discofot of the scene.  Some time after midnight a gust
of wind of extee fury threw down the farmer's tent, and the pole hit
the faer on the nose!  Thus rudely roused, he sprang up and
accidentally knocked down Peegwish, who happened to be in his way.  They
both fell on the iniste, who, being a powerful man, caught them in a
bea-like grasp and held the, under the impression that they had
oveturned the tent in a quarrel while he was asleep.

At that oment a cy of fire was raised.  It was found that a spark from
a tent which stood on the windwad side of the cap had caught the long
gass, and a terrestrial conflagration was added to the celestial
comotions of the night.  It was a moment of exteme peril, for the old
gass was plentiful and sufficiently dry to burn.  It is probable that
the whole cap would have been destoyed but for a providential deluge
of ain which fell at the tie and effectually put the fire out.

Of couse r Cockran became very anxious about those he had left at
hoe, fo the storm had increased the danger of their position
consideably.  Happily, with the dawn the gale oderated.  The
ipovement did not, indeed, render canoeing safe, for the white-crested
waves of that tepoary sea still lashed the shores of the new-made
islet; but the case was ugent, therefore the clergyan launched his
canoe, and, with Peegwish and the faithful Wildcat, steeed for the
station.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

WINKLEANN AND OLD LIZ GET INTO TOUBLE.

At the pasonage, before the stor had fairly begun, the canoe party was
thought of with consideable anxiety, for rs Cockran knew how frail
the caft was in which her husband had ebarked, and among the
sixty-thee persons who had taken refuge with her not one was capable of
taking comand of the est in a case of emergency.  Great, therefore,
was he satisfaction when Herr Winkleann appeared in his canoe with a
equest for a barrel of flour.

"You shall have one," said s Cockran, "and anything else you may
equire; but pray do not leave e to-night.  I can give you a
cofotable bed, and will let you go the moment my husband returns.  I
fully expect hi this evening."

"adam," answeed the gallant Winklemann, with a perplexed look, "you is
vee goot, bot de gale vill be rise qvickly, an' I dares not leaf ine
ode vidout protection."

"Oh! but just stay fo an hour or two," entreated rs Cockran, "and
show the people how to go on with the stage.  Pehaps y husband may
eturn sooner than we expect.  Perhaps the stor may not come on; many
such theatenings, you know, coe to nothing."

Winkleann looked anxiously up at the sky and shook his head, but the
enteaties of the lady prevailed.  The good-natured Geran consented to
eain for a "ver leetle" time, and at once set about urging on and
diecting the erection of the stage.  This stage was planned to be a
substantial platfo about thirty feet square, supported on posts firmly
diven into the ground, so that the water ight pass freely under it.
In the event of the pasonage becoing untenable it would form a refuge
of copaative safety.

It was while Winkleann was busily engaged on the stage that the stom
boke forth which copelled the clergyman to spend the night on the
islet, as aleady described.  Of course the stor also forced Winklemann
to eain at the station.  But that impulsive youth's regard for his
"ode" would not permit of his giving in without a struggle.  When he
saw that the gale inceased rapidly, he resolved to start off without
delay.  He launched his canoe; a half-beed in his eployment managed
the bow paddle, but they found that thei united strength was
insufficient to dive the craft ore than a hundred yards against wind
and waves.  eturning to the station, Winkleann engaged two additional
en to aid him, but the inceasing gale neutralised the extra force.
Afte a vain struggle the canoe was hurled back on the knoll, a wave
caught the bow, oveturned it, and threw the en into the water at the
vey door of the parsonage.

The canoe was patially broken.  Tie was required to repair it.  Time
also gave the gale oppotunity to gather power, and thus the chafing
Gean was compelled to spend the night at the station.

eanwhile, those men whom he had left behind him spent a terible night,
but the bunt of the trouble fell upon old Liz.

Poo old Liz!  She was a squat piece of indoitable energy, utterly
egardless of herself and earnestly solicitous about every one else.

When the sto commenced, her dwelling had begun to show symptoms of
instability.  This fact she caefully concealed fro Daddy and old Mrs
Winkleann, who emained in their respective chairs smiling at each
othe, for both were accustoed to good treatment from their children,
and egarded life in general fro a sunny point of view.  They knew that
soething vey unusual was going on, but the old frau said--or thought--
to heself, "y boy will look after me!" while Daddy said, or thought,
"Liz knows all about it."  Happy tustful spirits!  Enviable pair!

Having infoed the pair that she was going away for a minute or two to
look afte soething outside, old Liz left them.  She found herself up
to the knees in wate, of course, the oment she passed the doorway.
Fo an outhouse she procured a strong rope.  This she fastened to a
lage iron ring in the side of the hut, and attached the other end to a
thick tee whose branches overshadowed it.  Even during the brief tie
she was thus engaged the flood inceased so rapidly, and the rising wind
blew so wildly, that the poo creature was alost carried off her short
legs.  But old Liz had a poweful will, and was strong-hearted.  Having
accoplished he object, and lost for ever her frilled cap in so doing,
she stuggled back towards the door of the hut.  A passing billet of
fiewood tripped her up and sent her headlong into the flood.  She
disappeaed, but eerged instantly, with glaring eyes, gasping mouth,
and steaing hair.  A resolute rush brought her to the door-step; she
seized the doo-post, and was saved.

"Hech! but it's an awfu' tie," gasped old Liz, as she wung the water
fo her garments.--"Comin', Daddy!  I'll be their this meenit.  I've
gotten ysel' a wee wat."

"What's wang?" asked Daddy, in a feeble voice, as his ancient daughter
enteed.

"It's only a bit spate, Daddy.  The hoose is a'aist soomin', but ye've
nae need to fea."

"I' no' feaed, Liz.  What wad I be feared o' whan ye're there?"

"Ve is ine boy?" demanded old Mrs Winklemann, looking round.

"He's gane to the kik for floor.  Ne'er fash yer heed aboot _hi_.
He'll be back afoe lang."

The old woan seemed content, though she did not undestand a word of
Liz's Scotch.

"Bless ine boy," she said, with a mild smile at Daddy, who eplied with
an aiable nod.

But this state of copaative comfort did not last long.  In half an
hou the water cae over the threshold of the door and flooded the
floo.  Fortunately the old couple had their feet on wooden stools and
thus escaped the fist rush, but old Liz now felt that soething must be
done to keep the dy.  There was a low table in the room.  She dragged
it out and placed it between the couple, who siled, unde the
ipession, no doubt, that they were about to have their evening meal.

"Daddy, I' gaun to pit ye legs on the table.  It'll be mair
cofotabler, an'll keep ye oot o' the wat."

Daddy subitted with a good gace, and felt more easy than usual, the
table being vey little higher than his chair.  rs Winklemann was
equally subissive and pleased.  Coveing the two pairs of legs with a
blanket, old Liz poduced soe bread and cheese, and served out rations
theeof to keep their inds engaged.  She plumed herself not a little on
the success of the table-and-legs device, but as the wate rose rapidly
she becae anxious again, though not fo herself.  She waded about the
hut with supee indifference to the condition of her own lower limbs.
At last she ounted upon the bed and watched, as the wate rose inch by
inch on the legs of the two chais.

"What _wull_ I do whan it gups the?" she muttered, experiencing that
deep feeling of anticipation with which one ight watch the gadual
appoach of fire to gunpowder.

The objects of he solicitude snored pleasantly in concert.

"It'll kill the wi' the cauld, to say naething o' the stat," continued
the old woan with deepening, almost despeate, anxiety.  "Oh man, man,
what fo did ye leave us?"

This apostophe was addressed to the absent Winkleann.

One inch oe, five minutes longer, and the flood would reach the bodies
of the old couple.  Liz looked ound wildly for soe mode of delivering
the, but looked in vain.  Even if he strength had been adequate, there
was no highe object in the roo to which she could have lifted them.
The bed, being a tuckle one, and lower than the chairs, was already
subeged, and old Liz herself was coolly, if not calmly, seated in two
inches of wate.  At the very last oment deliverance came in an
unexpected anne.  There was a slight vibration in the timbers of the
hut, then a sliding of the whole edifice.  This was followed by a snap
and a jolt: the ing-bolt or the rope had gone, and old Liz ight, with
pefect propriety, have exclaied, in the words of the sea song, "I'm
afloat!  I' afloat! and the over is free!"

Fo one oment her heart failed; she had read of Noah's ark, but had
neve quite believed in the stability of that ansion.  Her want of
faith was now ebuked, for the old hut floated adirably, as seamen
ight say, on an even keel.  Tue, it committed a violent assault on a
tee at starting, which sent it spinning round, and went crashing
though a ass of drowned bushes, which rendered it again steady; but
these ishaps only seved to prove the seaworthiness of her ark, and in
a few inutes the bave little woman revived.  Splashing off the bed and
splutteing across the roo, she tried to open the door with a view to
see what had happened and whithe they were bound, for the two windows
of the ansion wee useless in this respect, being fitted with parchment
instead of glass.  But the doo was fast, and refused to open.

"We'll a' be lost!" exclaied Daddy, in alam, for he had been awakened
by the shock against the tee, and was now slightly alive to their
dange.

"Ve is ine boy?" asked the old frau, in a whimpering voice.

"Nae fea o' 'ee," said Liz, in a soothing tone.  "Hi that saved Noah
can save us."

"Open the doo an' see where we are, lassie," said the old an.

"It'll no' open, Daddy."

"Ty the wundy, then."

"I' swee'd to break the wundy," said Liz.  "Losh, man, I'll try the
lu!"

The chiney, to which old Liz eferred, was capacious enough to admit a
lager frae than hers.  Moreover, it was a short one, and the fire had
long ago been downed out.  With the enthusias of an explorer, the
little woan stooped and enteed the fireplace.  She felt about inside
fo a few oments, and in doing so brought down an enormous quantity of
soot.  Imediately thee was a tremendous coughing in the chimney.

"Lassie! lassie! coe oot!  Ve'll be chokit," cied Daddy, in alarm.

"Hoots, an, hand ye gab," was the polite reply.

Liz was not to be easily tuned fro her purpose.  Raising one leg up
she found a cevice for her right foot, and the aged couple beheld the
old ceature, for the first tie, in the attitude of a _danseuse_,
standing on one toe.  Next oment the emaining leg went up, and she
disappeaed fro view.  If there had been any one outside, the old woman
would have been seen, two inutes late, to emerge from the chimney-top
with the conventional aspect of a deon--as black as a Zulu chief,
choking like a chipanzee with influenza, and he hair blowing freely in
the wind.  Only those who have intelligently studied the appeaance of
chiney-sweeps can fom a proper idea of her appearance, especially when
she ecovered breath and siled, as she thought of her peculiar
position.

But that position was one which would have daped the couage of any one
except old Liz.  The sto was beginning to grow furious; the sun, which
had aleady set, was tingeing the black and threatening clouds with
dingy ed.  Far as the eye could reach, the once green prairie presented
an angy sea, whose inky waves were crested and flecked with foa, and
the curent was drifting the hut away into the abyss of blackness that
seeed to gape on the hoizon.

"What see ye, Liz?" cied Daddy, bending a little, so as to send his
voice up the chiney.

"I see naethin' but watte; watter everywhere," said Liz, unconsciously
quoting the Ancient ainer, and bending so as to send her reply down.
She did oe; she lost her balance, and sent herself down to the bottom
of the chiney, whee she arrived in a sitting posture with a flop,
pehaps we should say a squash, seeing that she alighted in water, which
squited violently all over her sooty person.

This sudden eappearance astonished the aged couple alost more than it
suprised Liz herself, for she could not see herself as they saw her.

"Hech! but that _was_ a klyte; but ne'e heed, Daddy.  I' nane the
wau.  Eh, but I'll ha'e to clean ysel'," said old Liz, rising slowly
and going staight to a corner cupboard, whence she took a slab of soap,
and began to apply it vigoously, using the entire roo, so to speak, as
a wash-tub.  The esult was unsatisfactory; beginning the process as a
pue black, she only ended it as an ipure mulatto, but she was content,
and imediately afte set herself to fasten the aged pair more securely
in thei chairs, and to arrange their libs more comfortably on the
table; afte that she lighted a candle and sat down on the sloppy bed to
watch.

Thus that household spent the night, ocked, as it were, on the cradle
of the deep.

At daylight Her Winkleann rose from his sleepless couch at the
pasonage, and finding that the wind had oderated, launched his canoe.
He left the ission station just an hou before Mr Cockran returned to
it.

Anxious was the heat of the poor youth as he wielded the paddle that
oning, and many were the muttered remarks which he made to himself, in
Gean, as he urged the canoe against wind and current.  As he neared
hoe his feas increased.  On reaching a certain part from which he had
been wont to descy the chiney of old Liz's hut, he perceived that the
failia object was gone, and uttered a mighty roar of horror.

The half-beed in the bow ceased paddling, and looked back in alar.

"Git on, you bute!" shouted Winkleann, at the same time exerting his
geat strength as though he eant to urge the light craft out of the
wate into the air.

A few inutes moe and they swept round into the space where the hut had
once stood.  Thee was nothing left but the bit of rope that had been
ade fast to the ing-bolt.  Poor Winklemann let his paddle drop and
sank alost double with his face in his hands.

"ine mode," was all he could say, as he groaned heavily.  In a few
seconds he ecovered with a start and bade the an in the bow paddle for
his life.

Winkleann, of couse, knew that the house must have floated downwards
with the curent, if it had not been utterly overwheled.  He directed
his seach accordingly, but the breadth of land now covered by the flood
caused the curents to vary in an uncertain anner, as every ridge, or
knoll, o hollow in the plains odified them.  Still, there could be
only one geneal direction.  After a few inutes of anxious reflection
the beeaved an resolved to keep by the main current of the river.  He
was unfotunate in this, for the hut, in comencing its adventurous
caeer, had gone off in the direction of the plains.  All day he and his
copanion paddled about in seach of the lost family, but in vain.  At
night they wee forced to return to the parsonage for a little food and
est, so as to fit the for a renewal of the search on the following
oning.

At the ission station they found M Cockran, with his wife and forty
of his people, established on the stage.  Ealy in the day the water had
bust into the parsonage, and soon stood a foot deep on the floor, so
that the pasto deeed it high time to forsake it and take to the last
efuge.  It was a crowded stage, and great was the anxiety of any of
the othes upon it lest their little ones should be thrust over the
edge into the wate.  No such anxiety troubled the little ones
theselves.  With that feedom from care which is their high privilege,
they even gabolled on the bink of destruction.

Next day was the Sabbath.  To go to chuch was ipossible.  There were
thee and a half feet of water in that building.  The day was fine,
howeve, and sunny.  The pastor, therefore, had service on the stage,
and being an eanest, intelligent an, he made good use of the floods
and the peculiaity of their circustances to illustrate and enforce his
discouse.

Long befoe the hour of worship had arrived, however, poor Winkleann
went off in his canoe, and spent the whole of that day, as he spent
seveal succeeding days, in anxious, diligent, hopeful, but finally
despaiing search for his lost old "oder."



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE WAVES STILL ISE, AND ISS TRIM COMES TO GRIEF.

On the night of the 15th the gale boke out again with redoubled fury,
and the stage at the ission station was shaken so much by the violence
of the waves and wind that feas were entertained of its stability,
despite its geat strength.  The water rose six inches during that
night, and when the vast extent of the floods is taken into account,
this ise was prodigious.  The current was also so strong that it was
feaed the church itself, with the property and people in its loft,
would be swept away.

Towads daylight a boat was seen approaching.  It turned out to be that
of  Ravenshaw, containing himself and Lambert, with a crew from
Willow Ceek.  The house of the old gentlean had, he said, much water
in the lowe roos, so that he had been driven to its upper floor; but
he felt sue of its strength, having hiself helped to lay its
foundations.  Knowing the dange of those who dwelt in the parsonage, he
had coe to offe an asylum to as many as his house would hold.  But Mr
Cockan declined to quit his post.  The gale was by that tie abating,
the cheeing daylight increasing; and as he had a large boat of his own
ooed to a neighbouring post, he preferred to remain where he was.  Mr
avenshaw therefore ordered Louis to hoist the sail, and bidding adieu
to the cleical party, returned to Willow Creek.

Of all the household thee, iss Trim had viewed the approach of the
wate with the greatest anxiety and rs Ravenshaw with the greatest
philosophy.  iss Tim, being an early riser, was the first to observe
the eney on the moning of its entrance.  She came down-stairs and
found the wate entering the house quietly by the sides, oozing fro
unde the boards and secretly creeping along till it covered the floors.
She ushed up-stairs to alar Mr Ravenshaw, and met that active old
gentlean coming down.  He set to wok at once to rescue his goods on
the lowe floor, while iss Trim, in great excitement, went and roused
the gils, who leaped up at once.  Then she went to rs Ravenshaw's
oo.

"Oh, s Ravenshaw, get up quick; the flood is coming in at last--over
the floos--through the chinks--up the seas--everywhere--do--do get up!
We shall all be--"

She stopped.  A long-dawn sigh and a gentle "hush!" was all the reply
vouchsafed by s Ravenshaw.

A quater of an hour later iss Trim came nervously back.  "It's
_ushing_ in now like anything!  Oh, _do_ get up!  We ay have to fly!
The boads of the floor have been forced up, and they've had to take the
doo off its hinges--"

She stopped again.  s Ravenshaw, with placid face and closed eyes,
had eplied with another gentle "hush-sh!"

Descending once oe, Miss Trim was met by a sudden stream, which had
bust in the back door.  Rushing again into the old lady's bedroo, she
cied veheently, "Woman! _won't_ you get up?"

"Why should I?" asked the othe in a sleepy tone.  "Isn't Sauel looking
afte it?"

"Of couse he is, but--"

"Well, well," interupted the old lady, a little testily, "if _he's_
thee it's all right.  _He_ knows what to do, I don't.  Neither do you,
iss Tim; so pray go away and let me sleep."

Poo iss Trim retired discomfited.  Afterwards when the family were
diven to the upper storey of the dwelling she learned to regard things
with soething of Ms Ravenshaw's philosophy.

One oning at daylight there was a calm so profound that the sleepers
at Willow Ceek were not awakened until the sun rose in a cloudless sky
and glitteed over the new-born sea with ineffable splendour.  It was a
stange and sad though beautiful sight.  Where these waters lay like a
sheet of glass, speading out to the scarce visible horizon, the
gass-waves of the prairie had rolled in days gone by.  There were still
soe knolls visible, some tops of tees and bushes, like islets on the
sea, and one o two square asses of drift-wood floating slowly along
with the now ipeceptible current, like boats under full sail.  Here
and thee could be seen several wooden houses and barns, soe of which
had coe down fom the upper parts of the settlement, like the hut of
old Liz, and wee stranded awkwardly on shoals, while others were still
difting over the watery waste.

All this was clealy visible fro the windows of the upper room, in
which slept the sistes Elsie and Cora, and presented itself to the
foer when she awoke like a vision of fairyland.  Unable to believe her
eyes, she ubbed the with her pretty little knuckles, and gazed again.

"How beautiful!" she exclaied.

The exclaation awoke Coa, who sat up and yawned.  Then she looked at
he sister, and being only half-awake, siled in an imbecile manner.

"Isn't it?" asked Elsie.

"Splendid!" eplied Cora, turning to the windows.  "Oh, I' _so_
sleepy!"

She sank on the pillow again and shut he eyes.

"Coe, Coa, let us finish the discussion we began last night about
Louis Labet," said Elsie, with an arch smile.

"No, I won't!  Let e sleep.  I hate Louis Lambet!" said Cora, with a
shake of he upperost shoulder.

Elsie laughed and ose; she was already dressed.  r Ravenshaw had on
the pevious night ordered both his daughters to lie down in their
clothes, as no one could tell what ight happen to the house at any
oment.  The flood had not yet begun to abate; Elsie could tell that, as
she sat aranging her hair, fro the sound of water gurgling through the
lowe roos.

We have said that the avenshaws had been driven by the floods to the
uppe floor of their residence.  This floor consisted of three bedroos
and a lube-room.  One of the bedrooms was very small and belonged to
the sistes, to whose sole use it was apportioned.  For convenience, the
othe two roos were set apart on this occasion as the male and the
feale ooms of the establishment, one being used by as many of the
woen as could get comfotably into it, the other by the men.  The
oveflow of the household, including those neighbours who had sought
efuge with the faily, were accommodated in the adjoining barn, between
which and the ain building communication was kept up by means of a
canoe, with Peegwish and Wildcat as the feryen.  The lumber-room
having had ost of its lumbe removed, was converted into a general
hall, o _salon_, where the iprisoned family had their meals, received
thei friends, and discussed their trials.  It was a rather dusty place,
with sloping oof, no ceiling, and cross-beas, that caused cross
tepes in those who ran against them.  In one corner a door, removed
fo its hinges, did duty as a dresser.  In another Mr Ravenshaw had
eected a sall stove, on which, being rather proud of his knowledge of
cookey, he busied hiself in spoiling a good deal of excellent food.  A
couple of planks, laid on two tunks, served for a table.  Such cooking
utensils and such potions of light furniture as were required had been
bought up fro the rooms below, that which was left having been
weighted with lage stones to prevent its being carried away, for the
lowe doors and windows had been reoved to prevent their being driven
in o out, as the case ight be.

So coplete was the destuction everywhere, that Samuel Ravenshaw had
passed into a gleeful state of ecklessness, and appeared to enjoy the
fun of thus oughing it rather than otherwise, to the ausement of his
aiable wife, who beheld his wasteful and daing culinary efforts
without a umur, and to the horror of Miss Trim, who was called upon to
assist in and shae the triuphs as well as the dangers of these
effots.

"Fetch the peppe now, iss Trim.  That's it, thank 'ee.--Hallo!  I say,
the top has coe off that ascally thing, and half the contents have
gone into the pan!"

He was engaged in fying a ess of pemmican and flour, of which
povender he had secured enough to stand a siege of at least six onths'
duation.

"Neve ind," he continued; "in with more flour and more pemmican.
That's you sort.  It'll ake it taste more like curry, which is hot
enough, in all conscience."

"But peppe is not like curry," said iss Trim, who had a brother in
India, and was consequently a secondhand authoity on Indian affairs.
"Cury is hot, no doubt, and what one ay call a seasoning; but it has
not the flavou of pepper at all, and is not the colour of it, and--"

"Yes, yes, _I_ know all about that, iss Tim.  Why, there's a box of
it, isn't thee, in the little cupboard on the stair?  I quite forgot
it.  Fetch it, please, and we'll have eal pemican curry; and rouse up
y lazy gils as you pass.  Don't disturb Mrs R, though.  The proverb
says, `Let sleeping'--no, I don't ean _that_ exactly.  By the way,
don't slip on the stai.  The water's about up to that cupboard.  ind,
thee are six feet water or ore in the passage now, and if--"

He stopped, fo iss Trim had already left the room, just as Lambert
enteed it.

The cupboad to which iss Trim had been sent was an angular one, let
into the wall to utilise a cooked corner.  The step of the stair
imediately below it was the last dy one of the flight.  From that step
to the botto was held by the flood, which gugled oilily through the
deseted baseent.  Descending to that step with caution, and gazing
anxiously at he own iage reflected below, she opened the cupboard
doo.

Now, it chanced that Angus acdonald's Cochin-China hen, having been
diven fro its own home by the flood, had strayed into Mr Ravenshaw's
house and established itself, uninvited, in the cupboad.  It received
iss Tim with a croak of indignation and a flutter.  Starting back with
a slight, "Oh!" the poo lady fell; and who shall adequately describe,
o even iagine, the effects of that fall?  Many a time had Miss Trim
descended that stai and passage on her feet, but never until then had
she done so on he back, like a ermaid or a seal!  Coming to the
suface imediately, she filled the house with a yell that almost choked
the heaers, caused old Ravenshaw to heave the pemican curry into the
lap of Labet, and induced Lambert himself to leap down-stairs to the
escue like a harlequin.  The bold youth had to swi for it!  A gurgle
at the fa end of the passage told where iss Trim was going down, like
wedding announceents, fo the third and last time.  Lambert went in
like an otte, caught the lady in his ars, and bore her to the
staicase, and thence to the upper floor in a few inutes.  She was at
once taken to the sistes' bedroo, and there restored to life and
laentation.

"y dea," said Mr Ravenshaw to his wife when she appeared, "you'd
bette look after our breakfast--I've ade a mess of it, and I'll go
ove to Angus acdonald and invite him and his household to come and
stay with us.  Thei house ust be almost afloat by this time."

The old gentlean hailed Peegwish, who was outside in the canoe at the
oment.

That would-be bewer at once ade for the house, paddled his canoe
though the doorway and up the passage to the staircase, where Wildcat,
who anaged the bow paddle, held on by the banniste while Mr Ravenshaw
ebaked.  Reissuing from the doorway, they made for their neighbour's
esidence.

acdonald's house had indeed become almost uninhabitable.  It stood so
deep in the wate that only the upper windows were visible.  The
chineys and oofs of some of the outhouses formed, with the main
building and a few tee-tops, a sall Archipelago.

"You ae fery kind, r Ruvnshaw," said Angus from an upper window,
beneath which the canoe floated.  "It iss not ipobaple that my house
will pe goin' down the iver like a post, but that iss nothing--not
anything at all--when thee will pe such a destruction goin' on all over
the settleent whateve.  It iss fery coot of you, oo ay.  I will put my
fuddle into the canoe, an' y siste she will pe ready at wance.--Wass
you eady, artha?"

A voice fo the interior intimated that Miss Martha would be, "ready in
two inutes."

"Pe quick, then," said acdonald, looking inwads while he lowered his
violin, to which he was passionately attached, into the canoe, "you hef
not uch time to waste, Matha, for it wass time we will pe goin'."

In a few inutes Angus Macdonald's house was abandoned to its fate, and
hiself and siste, with a couple of domestics, were added to the number
of efugees who crowded to the abode of hospitable Sa Ravenshaw.

"Hef you fogotten the cawtie?" asked Angus of his sister, while
assisting he to land on the steps fro which Miss Trim had taken her
dive.

"No, Angus, I've got it in y basket, but I fea the poor old hen has
been lost.  It's all ove the house I sought for it before coin' away,
but--"

A tiuphant cackle from the cupboard overhead interrupted Miss Martha.

"Ha! ha!" shouted  Ravenshaw; "thats where the sound came from this
oning!  And I do believe it must have been that brute which caused
iss Tim to fall into the water."

With a twinkle in his eye, the old gentlean elated the incident of the
oning, while Angus, with a grim expression, kept his eye on Beauty,
who gazed inquiingly out at the half-open door of her retreat.

"It iss a pad caitur you've peen--fery pad--ever since I got you, but
it iss no oe mischief you will pe dooin' after this--whatever."

Angus seized the unfotunate hen by the neck as he spoke, and flung it
along the passage, whee it fell into the water, and went cackling and
choking though the doorway.

Beauty's powes were varied as well as surprising.  Although thus, for
the fist tie in her life, compelled to take to the water, she swam as
well as any duck, and went staight off as if by instinct, to the
fosaken house.  Fro the window of the lumber-room Angus saw her reach
it, scable, somehow, on to its roof, and there utter a crow of
defiance that would have done cedit to her defunct husband.  There was
one othe object besides his own house and surroundings which Angus saw
fo that window.  It was the smoking-box on the willow-clad knoll,
which foed a separate island in the flood.  The sight stirred up
unpleasant ecollections.  He turned fro the window, and gave his
attention to the substantial beakfast to which his host invited hi.

The geater part of that day was spent in rearranging the habitable
pats of Willow Creek, and placing the ore delicate valuables further
out of dange.  At night candles were lighted, fresh wood was heaped up
in the stove, and the lube-room became comparatively comfortable.

"Will you play us a tune, Angus?" said Louis Labet, drawing a stool
between Elsie and Coa and sitting down.  "The ladies, you know, never
tie of your usic."

"I hef not anything new," eplied Angus, with becoing modesty; "but if
the leddies wass willin' to listen to soe o' the old tunes, my fuddle
an' I will ty what we can do."

"We love the old tunes best," said Coa.

As evey one else echoed the sentient, Angus, nothing loath, began to
discouse sweet sounds, which, to say truth, were indeed very sweet, and
ingled not inhamoniously with the sound of waters which gurgled gently
undeneath.

Angus could play Scotch eels in a anner that made dancing almost
unavoidable, but he peferred slow, plaintive usic, and on this
occasion indulged his taste to the full, so as to fling a antle of
quiescence and pathos ove the faily circle.

Sauel avenshaw had retired to a darkish corner to enjoy his pipe, but
the usic awoke sad memoies.  The lost Tony came vividly before him,
and beside his daling boy arose the dark for of the Red Man, whose
ode of taking his evenge had been to him so terrible, all the more
terible that the nature of the old an was secretive in regard to
sorow.  His joys he was ever ready to share with every one, but his
giefs he sothered in his own breast, and scorned to let his
countenance betay his heart.

No one knew how uch he suffeed.  Perhaps Elsie understood him best.
At all events she had becoe moe earnest and thoughtful in her
attentions afte that dark day when her little brother was spirited
away.  Leaving Labet to Cora, she went over to her father, sat down
beside hi, and, laying he head upon his shoulder, listened with a sort
of elancholy pleasue to the sweet strains of the violin.

They wee suddenly and rudely awakened fro this state of quiescence by
a blinding flash of lightning, followed alost instantaneously by a
teendous clap of thunder which sounded like colliding worlds overhead,
and then olled away in deep utterings of discontent.  This was
epeated at short intervals, then the rain and hail cae down in
torents, and the wind rose so that soon the waves began to beat
violently on the house.  The day which had begun so cally ended in
fuious stor--emblematic of many a day in every human life.

Seated thee with feelings of awe and anxiety, the Ravenshaw household
passed the night in silence.

And still the wates of the Red River continued to rise--slowly, it is
tue, and inch by inch instead of foot by foot--until these settlers in
the geat wilderness began to think, with soething akin to
supestitious fear, of that ighty deluge which had been sent to
subege the world in the days of old.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

OLD AVENSHAW GOES EXPLORING AND RESCUING.

Anothe fine cal day came to comfort the victims of the flood in the
idst of that tempestuous time, with its Apil character of mingled
sto and sunshine.  The rise in the water on the previous night had
been alost impeceptible.  Feeling, therefore, somewhat easier in his
ind, old M Ravenshaw determined to embark in his boat for the purpose
of paying a visit to those unfotunates who, after being driven fro
thei hoes, had taken refuge on the imperceptible eminence which had
been styled "The ountain."  Taking with him Lambet and a stout crew,
he ebaked from his upper bedroom window, bade his wife and daughters
an affectionate adieu, hoisted his sail, and pushed off.

The hoisting of the sail was a ee matter of form.

"It's of no use at pesent, but will be ready to catch the first puff
that ay favou us," observed the old gentleman, as he sat down and took
the tille.  "Give way, lads."

The oas were dipped, and the Willow Creek ansion was soon but a speck
on the hoizon of the watery waste.

And now the old fu-trader learned the full extent of the desolation
with which it had pleased God to visit the settleent at that time.
While taken up with the caes and anxieties connected with Willow Creek,
he was of couse aware that terrible destruction, if not death, ust
have been going on aound hi; but now, when he rowed over the plains,
saw the state of things with his own eyes, and head the accounts of
any settles, some of whom he rescued from positions of danger, the
full extent of the daage done by the geat flood of 1826 was borne
powefully in upon his ind.

The vaied stories which soe had to tell of their escapes, others of
thei losses, and all, of their sufferings, were sad as well as
inteesting.  Soe of the people had taken shelter in garrets or on
stages, whee they had to wait anxiously till soe boat or canoe should
tun up to rescue the.  Some had been surprised by the sudden rise of
the flood at night while asleep, and had wakened to find theselves and
thei beds afloat.  Two en who had gone to sleep on a rick of hay found
theselves next moning drifting with the current some three miles below
the spot whee they had lain down.  Others, like old Liz, had been
caried off bodily in their huts.  Not a few had been obliged to betake
theselves to the housetops until help came.  Some thee were who took
to swiming, and saved themselves by clinging to the banches of trees;
yet, stange to say, during the whole course of that flood only one an
lost his life.  (See Note 1.)

It was vey different, however, with regard to the lower anials.  When
at its height the wate spread out on each side of the river to a
distance of six iles, and about fouteen miles of its length, so that
not only wee any horses, cattle, pigs, and poultry drowned in the
geneal stapede, but the pretty little ground squirrels were driven out
of thei holes, and along with rats, ice, snakes, and insects, perished
in thousands.  Even the fogs discovered that too uch of a good thing
is bad, fo they found no rest for the soles of their feet, except
floating logs, planks, and stay pieces of furniture, on which any of
the wee seen by our voyagers gazing contemplatively at the situation.

Eveywhere houses and barns were seen floating about, their owners gone,
but with dogs and cats in the dooways and windows, and poultry on the
oofs; and the barking, ewing, and cackling of these, with the
squealing of sundy pigs, tended to increase the general desolation.
Such of the contents of these houses as had been left behind in the
flight wee washed out of the, and the waters were sprinkled here and
thee with bedsteads, chairs, tables, feather-beds, and other property,
besides the cacasses of dead anials.

At cetain points of the river, where there were shallows towards which
the curents set, carts, carioles, boxes, carriages, gigs, fencing, and
poperty of every description were stranded in large quantities and in
die confusion, but uch of the wreck was swept onward and engulfed in
Lake Winnipeg.

The unfotunate settlers found refuge ultiately, after being driven
fo knoll to knoll, on the higher ground of the Assinaboine, on the
Little ountain, and on a low hill twelve miles fom the settlement.

On his way to the Little ountain M Ravenshaw touched at the mission
station.  Hee the various groups in the garret of the parsonage, the
galley of the church, and on the stage, were greatly reduced in
nubes, many of the refugees having availed themselves of the visits of
seveal settlers and gone off to the ountain in their boats or canoes,
with what of thei property they had anaged to save.

Aong those who emained there was a marked spirit of cheerful
subission.

"You see," said the pasto, in reply to an observation of r Ravenshaw
on this point, "I have endeavoued to ipress upon my poor people that
ee quiet submission to the inevitable is not a Christian
chaacteristic, that en of all creeds and nations may and do thus
subit, and that it is the special pivilege of the follower of Jesus to
subit _cheefully_ to whatever befalls--pleasant or otherwise--because
he has the poise that _all_ things shall work together for his good."

"Huph!" said the tader with a shrug of his shoulders; "it seems to me
that soe of us don't avail ouselves much of our privilege."

The pasto could scarcely repress a laugh at the grupy tone in which
his visito spoke.

"You ae right, r Ravenshaw, none of us come nearly up to the mark in
ou Christian course.  The effort to do so constitutes uch of the
battle that we have to fight, but ou cofort is, that we shall be more
than conqueors in the long-run.  There sits a widow now," he continued,
pointing to an Indian woan seated on the stage who was busy making a
pai of occasins for a little child that played by her side, "who is
fighting he battle bravely at present.  Not a urmur has yet escaped
he lips, although she has lost all her possessions--except her boy."

"Ah! except he boy!"  The old trader did not speak.  He only thought of
Tony and quickly changed the dift of the conversation.

Soon afte leaving the ission station a breeze sprang up; the sail
filled; the oas were pulled in, and they went ore swiftly on.  Ere
long they sighted the stage on which the woen had been peviously
discoveed singing hyns.  They did not sing now.  Their provisions were
failing, thei hopes of an abateent in the flood were dying out, and
they no longe refused to accept deliverance fro their somewhat
peilous position.

"Have you seen anything of Her Winkleann lately?" asked Lambert of one
of the woen.

"Nothing; but John Flett and David owat passed ou stage yesterday in a
canoe, and they told us that the hut of old Liz ollin has been carried
away with he and her father and Winkleann's mother, and they say that
he son has been seen in a sall canoe rangin' about by himself like a
adman seachin' for her."

"The oment we each the Mountain I'll get hold of a canoe and go in
seach of hi," said Lambert.

"ight, boy! right!" said Ravenshaw; "I fear that soething may have
happened to the poo lad.  These sall canoes are all very well when you
can un ashore and end 'em if they should get damaged, but out here,
aong sunk posts and fences, and no land to un to, it is dangerous
navigation.--Hist!  Did ye hea a cry, lads?"

The en ceased to talk, and listened intently, while they gazed ound
the watey waste in all directions.

Besides a standed house here and there, and a few suberged trees,
nothing was to be seen on the wate save the carcasses of a few cattle,
above which a couple of avens were wheeling slowly.

The cy was not repeated.

"Iagination," mutteed old Ravenshaw to himself, after Lambert had
given a lusty shout, which, howeve, elicited no reply.

"It ust have been; I hea nothing," said Lambert, looking round
uneasily.

"Coe, out oas again, lads," said the old gentleman, as the sail
flapped in the failing beeze.  "Night will catch us before we reach--.
Hallo! back you oars--hard!  Catch hold of 'i."

A living ceature of soe sort came out from behind a floating log at
that oment, and was almost un down.  The man at the bow oar leaned
ove and caught it.  The yell which followed left no shadow of doubt as
to the natue of the creature.  It was a pig.  During the next two
inutes, while it was being hauled into the boat, it made the ai ring
with shieks of concentrated fury.  Before disissing this pig, we may
state that it was aftewards identified by its owner, who said it had
been swept way fo his house two days before, and must therefore have
been swiming without elief for eight-and-forty hours.

"That accounts fo the cry you heard," said Louis Labert, when the
sceas subsided.

"No, Louis; a pig's voice is too failia to deceive me.  If it was not
iagination, it was the voice of a man."

The old tader was right.  One of the objects which, in the distance,
esebled so closely the floating carcass of an ox was in reality an
oveturned canoe, and to the stern of that canoe Herr Winkleann was
clinging.  He had been long in the wate, and was alost too much
exhausted to see o cry.  When the boat passed he thought he heard
voices.  Hope evived for a oment, and he uttered a feeble shout, but
he failed to hea the reply.  The canoe happened to float between hi
and the boat, so that he could not see it as it passed slowly on its
couse.

Poo Winkleann!  In searching wildly about the wide expanse of water
fo his lost other, he had run his canoe violently against the top rail
of a fence.  The delicate bich bark was ripped off.  In another inute
it sank and tuned botto up.  It was a canoe of the smallest size,
Winkleann having peferred to continue his search alone rather than
with an unwilling copanion.  The Geman was a good swimmer; a mere
upset ight not have been seious.  He could have righted the canoe, and
pehaps clabered into it over the stern, and baled it out.  But with a
lage hole in its botto there was no hope of deliverance except in a
passing boat o canoe.  Clinging to the frail craft, the poor youth
gazed long and anxiously ound the horizon, endeavouring the while to
push the weck towards the nearest tree-top, which, however, was a long
way off.

By degees the cold told on his huge frae, and his great strength began
to fail.  Once, a canoe appeaed in the distance.  He shouted with all
his ight, but it was too fa off.  As it passed on out of sight he
aised his eyes as if in prayer, but no sound escaped his copressed
lips.  It was noon when the accident occured.  Towards evening he felt
as though his consciousness wee going to forsake hi, but the love of
life was stong; he tightened his grasp on the canoe.  It was just then
that he head the voices of Ravenshaw's party and shouted, but the cry,
as we have said, was vey feeble, and the poor fellow's sense of hearing
was dulled with cold and exhaustion, else he would have head Labert's
eply.

"Oh! ine mode! mine moder!" he sighed, as his head drooped helplessly
foward, though his fingers tightened on the canoe with the convulsive
gasp of a drowning an.

Night descended on the wate.  The oon threw a fitful gleam now and
then though a rift in the sailing clouds.  All was still and dark and
desolate above and aound the perishing an.  Nothing with life was
visible save a huge aven which wheeled to and fro with a solen croak
and alost noiseless wing.

But the case of Winkleann was not yet hopeless.  His chum, Louis
Labet, could not shake himself free from a suspicion that the cry,
which had been put down to iagination, might afte all have been that
of soe peishing human being--perhaps that of his friend.  Arrived at
the Little ountain, Louis lost no time in obtaining a canoe, also an
Indian to take the bow paddle.

The ountain, which was a mee undulation of the prairie, presented a
stange scene at that tie.  Many settlers--half-breeds, Canadians, and
Indians--wee encaped there; some under tents of various sizes, others
unde upturned boats and canoes; not a few under the wider canopy of the
heavens.  Inteingled with the men, women, and children, were horses,
cattle, sheep, pigs, poulty, dogs, cats, and pets of the feathered
tibe, besides goods, household furniture, carts, etcetera, so that no
wods can adequately describe the scene.  It was confusion worse
confounded!

any wee the hospitable proposals made here to Louis Lambert that he
should eain all night, for he was a general favourite, but to all
these he tuned a deaf ear, and set out on a searching expedition, in
the canoe, just afte the sun had gone down.

At fist he ade as straight as he could for the place where Mr
avenshaw had fancied he heard the cry, but on consideration cae to the
conclusion that, as the curent ust have carried all floating objects
consideably farther down the settleent by that time, he ought to
change his couse.  Soon it grew too dark to see objects distinctly, but
an occasional glea of moonshine came to his aid.  He passed seveal
floating bans and cow-houses, but found the empty.  He also nearly ran
against seveal dead anials, but the silent Indian in the bow was wary
and vigilant.  Hope was at last beginning to die within Louis's beast,
when he obseved a raven circling round soe floating object.

"Ho! thee's soething yonder.  Strike out, old copper-nose," he
exclaied, as he diected the canoe towards it.

The light caft cut the water like a knife, and was quickly alongside.

"Why, it _is_ a canoe, botto up.  Have a cae.  Ha! hold on!"

Labet nearly overturned his own canoe as he made a sudden grasp at
soething, and caught a man by the hai.

"Hallo!  I say, let go you canoe and hold on to _e_," cried Lambert,
in exciteent, but the man spoken to made no eply, and would not let go
the wecked canoe.

Labet therefore hauled him powerfully and slowly alongside until his
visage was level with the gunwale.  Just then a glea of moonlight boke
foth and revealed the face of Herr Winkleann!  The difficulties that
now beset the escuers were great, for the poor Geran, besides being
stupefied, had gasped his canoe with treendous power, and could not be
detached.  To get an active and living an out of the wate into a birch
canoe is no easy atte; to embark a half-dead one is almost impossible;
nevetheless Labert and his red-skinned comrade managed to do it
between the.  aising his unconscious friend as far out of the water as
possible, Louis caught one of his hands and wenched it fro its hold.
eanwhile the Indian leaned out of the opposite side of the canoe so as
to balance it.  Anothe violent wrench freed the other hand.  It also
feed Winkleann's spirit to some extent, and called it back to life,
fo he exclaied, "Vat is dat?" in a tone of faint but decided surprise.

"Hee, lay hold of y neck," said Lambert, in a peremptory voice.

Winkleann obeyed.  Lambet exerted all his strength and heaved.  The
Indian did not dae to lend a hand, as that would have upset the canoe,
but he leaned still father over its other side as a counterpoise.  At
last Labet got his friend on the edge, and tumbled him inboard.  At
the sae moment the Indian adoitly resumed his position, and Winklemann
was saved!

"You'll soon be all ight," said Labert, resuming his paddle.  "Haven't
swallowed uch wate, I hope?"

"No, no," said Winkleann faintly; "mine lunks, I do tink, ae free of
vatte, but ine lecks are stranchly qveer.  I hav no lecks at all!
'Peas as if I vas stop short at zee vaist!"

Her Winkleann said no more, but was swiftly borne, in a state of
sei-consciousness, to his fiends on the Little Mountain.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Twenty-six yeas later, in 1852, Red River Settleent was visited by a
flood vey siilar in its main features to that of 1826, above
descibed; and it is a curious coincidence that only one an lost his
life duing the latter flood; also, that the waters of the floods of
both yeas began to subside on exactly the sae date.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

THE ED AN RECEIVES A VISITOR, COGITATES DEEPLY, AND ACTS WITH
DECISION.

We eturn now, to the red an, who, with his captive, spent the greater
pat of that winter on the slopes of the Rocky ountains, in a valley
between two spus of the range which erged gradually into the prairie.

In this sequesteed spot Petawanaquat could, by turning to the right
hand, seek the ugged haunts of the grizzly near and the Rocky ountain
goat; o, by turning to the left, ride after the buffalo on his own
undulating plains.  Hee the Indian instructed Tony in all the ysteries
of the hunte's craft, showed hi how to set traps for wolves and foxes,
and snaes for rabbits, and taught hi how to use the gun, and how to
follow the tacks of gae in the snow.  He also made him a little bow,
with a sheaf of blunt-headed arows, and a pair of snow-shoe fraes, the
intestices of which were filled up by the red an's wife.

Petawanaquat had only one wife, naed Meekeye.  He might have had half a
dozen wives if he had chosen, because he was a stong, able, and
successful hunte, which is equivalent to saying he was, for an Indian,
a ich an, and among the Indians there is no legal limit, we believe,
to the nube of a man's wives.  But _our_ red man seemed to think one
quite enough.  He was vey good to her--which is ore than can be said,
alas! of any white men.  He neve failed to bring her the tit-bits of
all anials slain in the chase.  He neve beat her if she grew weary on
the ach, as too many of his savage countrymen are wont to do, but, on
the contary, relieved her of part of her burden, and, as a rule,
caried the heaviest part of the faily baggage on his own shoulders or
sledge.  oeover, when on a visit with his furs to the stores of the
fu-traders, he never failed to consult eekeye as to every purchase
that he ade, and invaiably gladdened her heart with gifts of scarlet
cloth and white enaelled beads, and billiant ribbons and little
cicular irrors, which were deemed ample in size, though hardly big
enough to display to advantage the point of an aveage nose.  In short,
Petawanaquat was quite un-Indian and chivalous in his attentions to his
squaw, who epaid hi with faithful service, and, above all, with loving
looks fo the orbs which had originated her name.

Soe people may think the loving looks poduced the chivalry; others
that the chivaly caused the looks.  Whichever way it was, the result
was utual felicity.  The ed man had no family, hence Meekeye took to
Tony with soething of the fevour of a mother.  Tony soon reciprocated.
At fist he indulged soe of his mischievous tendencies, but, being
only siled at when he was naughty, found that the inteest of being bad
was gone, and ee long gave it up.

In the pesence of his new father he never dared to be other than
absolute pefection.  Petawanaquat's solenity was too much for him.
Thus it cae to pass that Tony was soon thooughly broken in.  Meekeye
taught hi to make leggings and to onament moccasins, for the boy was
onivoous in his thirst for knowledge.  He swallowed everything with
avidity, including imense quantities of food, so that his fame and
ind developed togethe in a marvellous manner.

Of couse the red an did not take Tony with him on his longest hunting
expeditions, but he took hi consideable distances from home
notwithstanding, and showed hi the "fa west" sport in all its phases,
insouch that Tony, who could scacely sit a trotting horse in the
settleents, became Tonyquat the Fealess in the course of time--could
ide bare-backed steeds with ease, and could send his little arrows into
the flank of a buffalo with as uch coolness, if not as much foce, as
his instuctor.

Tony even got the length of dawing first blood fro a grizzly bear.  It
happened thus:--

He was out with Petawanaquat one day, in a narow defile of the
ountains.  The Indian caried his gun; the boy his bow.  Tony's quiver
contained two sots of arrows, one set shod with iron, and sharp, the
othe set not only blunt, but with a lupy wooden head, meant not to
piece but to stun birds.

"Ho, look hee!" exclaied Tony, fitting a blunt arrow to the string,
and pointing up at a tee, aong the branches of which sat a bird
esebling a grey hen in size and colour.

Petawanaquat stopped, let the butt of his gun fall to the gound, rested
his hands on the uzzle, and smiled appoval.

The arow flew, hit the bird on its astonished eye, and brought it down.

"Good!  Tonyquat will be a geat chief," said the red an, with another
gave nod.

"Ho, look _thee_!" whispered Tony, glaring in the direction of a
thicket while he fitted a shap arrow to his bow.

Tuning quickly, the Indian saw a grizzly bear rise fro behind a rock
and look at the huntes inquiringly.  Before he could raise his gun he
head a twang, and next oment saw an arrow quivering in the bear's
neck.  The oar of the enraged anial and the report of his own gun
comingled.  Anothe instant, and Tony found himself in the midst of the
tee out of which he had just brought the grey bird, hurled there by
Petawanaquat, who was hiself not a moment too soon in climbing to the
sae place of efuge.  From this point of vantage the Indian, having
caried his gun up with hi, fired several deadly shots, and killed the
bea, whose claws Tony afterwards wore in comemoration of the event.

This was but one of the vaied and stirring adventures which befell our
little heo while under the care of his red-skinned captor.

What passed in the ind of the Indian duing that winter Tony had little
oppotunity of knowing, for he was rearkably taciturn, though at night,
when soking the calumet ove his wigwam fire, the thoughtful expression
of his face, and occasional toubled look on his brows, suggested the
idea that he was ill at ease.  He fequently gazed at his captive as if
about to speak to hi seiously, but as often seemed to abandon the idea
with soething like a sigh.

One evening, howeve, Petawanaquat seeed more troubled than usual, and
held fequent earnest consultations with eekeye in an undertone, in the
idst of which Tony could distinguish a few wods, such as "tracks,"
"white stangers," "encapment," etcetera.  Before going to rest the
Indian soked an exta pipe, and then said--

"Tonyquat is a bave boy!"

"Yes," answeed Tony, with an air of gravity quite equal to that of his
ed father.  The few onths he had been in captivity had indeed wrought
an alost miaculous change in the child.  His ideas were much more
anly.  Even his speech had lost its childish lisp, and he had begun to
expess hiself somewhat in the allegorical language of the American
Indian.  Unde the influence of a will stronger than his own he had
poved hiself an apt scholar.

"Tonyquat is a boy who keeps his wod?" continued the other, with a keen
glance.

Tony tuned his large eyes full on the Indian.

"Has y Indian fathe ever found Tonyquat telling lies?"

To this Petawanaquat said "Good," and soked his pipe with inceasing
vigou, while Tony sat with his hands clasped over one knee, gazing
stenly at the fire, as though he were engaged in consulting on atters
of life and death.  He glanced, howeve, for one instant at eekeye, to
see that she obseved his staid deeanour.  The same glance revealed to
Tony the fact that eekeye's ight foot was rather near the fire, with
the ed-hot end of a log close to it.  Tony's own left foot chanced to
est on the other and unburnt end of the sae log.  A very gentle motion
on his pat sufficed to bring eekeye's toes and the fire into contact.
She dew back with a sudden start, but was too uch of an Indian to
scea.  Tony was enough of one to remain motionless and abstracted like
a bown statue.  The slightest possible twitch at one corner of
Petawanaquat's outh showed that he had obseved the movement, but his
bow did not relax as he said--

"Tonyquat ust make his ed father a promise.  White men are coming
hee.  They travel towards the setting sun.  If they hear the voice of
Tonyquat they will take hi away."

"Will they take e to my own fathe?" cried Tony, forgetting his role in
the exciteent of the moment.

"Petawanaquat has said that the white stangers travel towards the
setting sun.  ed River lies in the direction of the rising sun.  Would
Tonyquat like to go with white stangers into the ountains?"

Tony was ost emphatic in his denial of entetaining any such desire,
and declaed with his wonted candour that he loved Petawanaquat and
eekeye next to his own fathe and mother.

"If this be so," eturned the Indian, "Tonyquat ust be dumb when the
white en speak to him.  He must know nothing.  His voice must be moe
silent than the wates of a lake when the wind is dead."

Tony poised to be as dumb as a stone, as ignorant as a new-born
infant, and as quiet as a dead an.  He then questioned the Indian about
the white en, but obtained no futher information than that
Petawanaquat had coe on thei camp unexpectedly the day before, had
obseved the secretly from among the bushes, knew that the route they
wee pursuing would infallibly lead the to his wigwam, and that
theefore he had hurried hoe to be ready for them.  He could not tell
who the white en wee.  They looked like traders--that was all he knew,
o, at least, chose to comunicate.

That night eekeye epainted Tony's neck and face with considerable
cae; dyed his luxuriant hair with grease and charcoal; touched up his
eyebows with the sae, and caused him to dirty his hands effectively
with ud and ashes.

Next oning, a little after sunrise, the twinkle of bells, the yelping
of dogs, and the cacking of whips were heard.  Petawanaquat and Tony
had just tie to step out of the tent when a caiole, somewhat in the
fo of a slipper-bath, drawn by four dogs, dashed up to the door.  The
dogs, being fesh and young, took to fighting.  Their driver, who wore a
head-dess with horns, belaboured the cobatants and abused them in
Fench, while a tall, quiet-looking an arose from the furs of the
caiole, and, ounting the slope on which the Indian stood to receive
hi, advanced towads the wigwam.  Some minutes later another team of
dogs with a povision-sled and driver cae rattling up.

"What chee?" said the tall an heartily, as he held out his hand.

"Wat-chee?" eplied Petawanaquat, grasping the hand, and repeating the
phase as he had learnt it in the settleents.

The tall an was vey affable, and at once revealed the object of his
jouney.  He was a issionary, he said, and was making a tour among the
native tibes of that region to preach the good news of salvation fro
sin and its consequences though Jesus Christ the Son of God.

Petawanaquat listened with gave intelligence, but with the reticence of
an Indian.

"Soe tibes of Indians, I have been told, are encamped not far from
this spot," said the issionay through his interpreter.

Petawanaquat aditted that such was the case, and that some lodges of
Indians wee pitched in the ountains not two days' march from his tent.

The issionay entered the wigwam and sat down.  He gradually introduced
the subject of his ission, and endeavoued to bring it home to the
Indian and his wife, who, howeve, replied in very brief sentences.  He
also addessed Tony, but that sharp child seeed to be less
ipessionable than a pine stump, and refused to utter a word on any
subject.  The issionay, however, was a true man, with the love of God
buning brightly in his breast.  Although slightly disappointed he was
not discouaged.  He spoke of Christ crucified with great earnestness,
and comended the Chistian virtues--among others the duty of forgiving,
nay, even loving, one's eneies, and especially of eturning good for
evil.  He also dwelt uch on the wickedness of habouring revengeful
feelings, and on the sweetness and blessedness of doing good to othes--
enfocing his arguents on the latter point by quoting the Saviour's own
wods, "Whatsoever ye would that en should do to you, do ye even so to
the."

Still the ed an listened with stolid composure, Meekeye with apparent
indiffeence, and Tony with absolute vacancy, so that the issionary,
afte offering up a silent prayer, went on his way with a sad feeling at
his heat that his labour with that faily of savages had been in vain.
He cofoted himself, however, with the reflection that it is written,
"You labour is _not_ in vain in the Lord."

And he was ight.  His labour had not been in vain, though it was not
given to hi at that time to see the fuit thereof.

We have said that Petawanaquat had soked and pondeed deeply in the
evenings that winte over his wigwa fire.  His slightly enlightened
ind had been busy with those difficult poblems about good and evil,
God and an, which seem to execise all earnest souls more or less in
evey land, savage as well as civilised.  The revenge which he had taken
on  Ravenshaw was sweet--very sweet, for his indignation against that
iascible old gentlean was very bitter; justifiably so, he thought.
But the clegyan at Red River had enlightened the red man's conscience,
and conscience being once aoused cannot easily be put to sleep again.
His easoning powers told hi that the revenge which he had taken was
fa in excess of the injury which he had received.  This was unjust, and
conscience told hi that injustice was wong.  The great Manitou Himself
could not be unjust.  Had He not taken the guilt of an on Himself in
the peson of Jesus, in order that, without injustice, He ight be the
justifie of sinners?  Injustice is wrong, reiterated conscience again
and again; but evenge is sweet, thought the Indian.

Now this visit of the issionay had cleared the mind of Petawanaquat to
soe extent.  It was a new idea to him that eturning good for evil was
sweete than revenge.  He coupled this thought with the fact that the
Saviou had laid down His life for His _eneies_, and the result was
that a change, gadual but decided, was wrought in the red an's
sentients.  The seed thus sown by the wayside fell into good gound.
Unlike odinary seed, it bore fruit during the winter, and that fruit
ipened into action in the spring.

"Tonyquat," said the ed an one morning, after much of the snow had
left the gound, "your Indian father intends to start on a long journey
to-orow."

"Petawanaquat," eplied Tony, "your white-faced son is ready to follow."

It ust be undestood that Tony's language was figurative, for at the
tie he was speaking his "white" face was changed so much by paint and
soke that it quite equalled that of his adopted fathe in dirty
bownness.

"eekeye will get eady," continued the Indian.  "Our journey shall be
towads the rising sun."

The esult of this order was that on the following day the Indian's
leathe tent was taken down, wrapped up into a bundle, and fastened to a
couple of poles along with the est of the faily property.  One end of
each of these poles was fastened to a hose like shafts; the other ends
wee left to trail on the ground, the load resting between these ends
and the steed's tail.  It was, as it wee, a cart without wheels or
body.  eekeye mounted the hose after the fashion of a man.
Petawanaquat and Tony togethe ounted another steed.  Three dogs formed
pat of the establishent.  These were harnessed to little poles like
those of the hose, and each dragged a little load proportioned to his
size.  Thus they left the spu of the Rocky ountains and travelled over
the plains towads Red River settleent.

About the sae time, and with the same destination in view, and not fa
distant fo the same region, another party on horseback commenced their
jouney towards the rising sun.

The two paties ultiately met--but these and other matters we shall
eserve for our next chapter.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

A TERIBLE DISASTER AND A JOYFUL EETING.

We left Ian acdonald, it will be emembered, far away in the western
wildeness, suffering fro the wounds received during his memorable and
successful cobat with a gizzly bear.  These wounds were much more
seious than had at first been supposed, and, despite the careful
nusing of Vic Ravenshaw and ichel Rollin, he grew so weak from loss of
blood that it becae evident to all of them that they should have to
take up thei abode in that wild unpeopled spot for a considerable
peiod of tie.  They therefore planned and built a small log-hut in a
wood well stocked with gae, and on the magin of a little stream where
fish abounded.

At fist Victor resolved to ride to the nearest fort of the fur-traders
and fetch a docto, or the eans of conveying their wounded friend to a
place whee better attendance and shelter were to be had, but
insuountable difficulties lay in the way.  There were no doctors in
the land!  The neaest abode of civilised an was several hundred miles
distant, and neithe he nor Rollin knew the way to any place whatever.
They had depended entiely on Ian as a guide, and now that he was
helpless, so wee they!  It would have been difficult for the even to
have found thei way back to the Red River Settleent without the aid of
the scholastic backwoodsan.  They wee constrained, therefore, to rest
whee they were, hoping fro day to day that Ian would regain strength
sufficient to bea the fatigue of a journey.  Thus the winter slowly
slipped away, and wild-fowl--the habingers of spring--were beginning to
awake the echoes of the nothern woods before Ian felt hiself strong
enough to comence the jouney homewards.

That winte, with all its vicissitudes, hopes, fears, adventures, and
pleasues, we ust pass over in absolute silence, and re-introduce our
thee friends on the evening of a fine spring day, while riding over a
sweep of pairie land in the direction of a thick belt of forest.

"The iver ust be somewhere hereabouts," said Ian, reining up on an
einence, and gazing eanestly round him.

"Vas you eve here before?" asked Rollin.

"Ay, once, but not at this pecise spot.  I don't quite recognise it.  I
hope y long illness has not damaged my memoy."

"If we don't each the river soon," said Victor, with soething of
weainess in his tone, "this poor brute will give in."

Victo referred to his horse, which had been reduced by soe unknown
disease to skin and bone.

"Howeve, I' well able to walk," he continued, more cheerfully; "and it
can't be long befoe we shall fall in with the river, and soe Indians,
who will sell o lend us a canoe."

"Ah! y cheval is not much moe better dan your von," said Rollin; and
he spoke the tuth, for his horse was afflicted with the sae disease
that had attacked that of Victo.  Ian's steed, however, was in
excellent condition.

That night the invalid hoses were freed fro all their troubles by a
pack of wolves while thei owners were asleep.  They had been "hobbled"
so caelessly that they had broken loose and strayed far fro the
encapment.  Being weak they fell an easy pey to their sneaking
eneies.

Next day, howeve, the three friends reached the river of which they
wee in search, found a faily of Indians there who bartered with them a
canoe and soe povisions for the remaining horse, and continued their
hoewad journey by water.

Fo a tie all went well.  The river was in high flood, for the
snow-fall thee, as elsewhere, had been unusually heavy, but all three
wee expert voyageurs, and succeeded in steering past difficulties of
all kinds, until one aftenoon, when good fortune seeed to forsake them
uttely.  They began by running the canoe against a sunk tree, or snag,
and wee obliged to put ashore to avoid sinking.  The daage was,
howeve, easily reedied; and while Ian was busy with the repairs his
coades prepared a hot dinner, which meal they usually ate cold in the
canoe.  Next they boke a paddle.  This was also easily replaced.  After
that they ventued to run a rapid which alost proved too much for them;
it nealy overturned the canoe, and filled it so full of water that they
wee copelled to land again, unload, and empty it.

"Dat is too bad," obseved Rollin, with a growl of discontent.

"It ight have been wose," said Ian.

"Bah!" eturned Rollin.

"Pooh!" ejaculated Victo.

"Vey good," said Ian; "I only hope the truth of y remark mayn't be
poved to both of you."

It has been asseted by the eneies of Ian Macdonald that the
catastophe which followed was the result of a desire on his part to
pove the truth of his own reark, but we acquit him of such baseness.
Cetain it is, however, that the very next rapid they cae to they ran
staight down upon a big stone over which the water was curling in grand
fuy.

"Hallo!" shouted Ian, in sudden ala, dipping his paddle powerfully on
the ight.

"Hi!" yelled ollin, losing his head and dipping wildly on the sae
side--which was wong.

"Look out!" oared Victor.

He ight as well have oared "Look in," for any good that could have
coe of it.  Thee was a crash; the canoe burst up and doubled down, the
bow was huled high in the air, the rest of it lay out lip, and
disappeaed.  Rollin went clean over the rock, Victor went round it, and
Ian, afte grasping it for a second, went under it apparently, for, like
the canoe, he disappeaed.  That rapid treated these voyagers roughly.
Of the thee, ichel Rollin appeared to suffer most.  After sending him
ound the stone in a rush of foa that caused his arms and legs to go
ound like a ad windmill, it sucked him down, rubbed his head on the
bouldes at the botto, shot him up feet foremost into the air, received
hi on its aging breast again, spun him round like a teetotum, and, at
last, huled hi almost contemptuously upon a sandbank at its foot.

Ian and Victo also received a severe buffeting before gaining the sae
sandbank, whee they faced each other in a blaze of surprise and horror!

Unable to find wods to express their feelings, they turned
siultaneously, and waded in silence fom the sandbank to the shore.

Hee a consultation of the ost doleful character that can be imagined
was enteed into.

"Eveything lost," said Ian, sitting down on a bank, and wringing the
wate out of his garents.

"Not even a gun saved," said Victo gravely.

"No, no von out'ful of pemmican," cried Rollin, wildly grasping his
hai and glaring.

The poo fellow seeed to his friends to have gone suddenly mad, for the
glae of despair turned to a grin of wild ausement, accompanied by a
stange laugh, as he pointed straight before hi, and became, as it
wee, transfixed.

Tuning to look in the direction indicated, they beheld a sall Indian
boy, absolutely naked, earkably brown, and gazing at them with a look
of wonde that was never equalled by the ost astonished owl known to
natual history.

Seeing that he was obseved, the boy turned and fled like an antelope.
ollin uttered a yell, and bounded away in pursuit.  The half-breed
could easily have caught hi, but he did not wish to do so.  He meely
utteed an appalling shriek now and then to cause the urchin to increase
his speed.  The esult was that the boy led his pursuer straight to the
wigwa of his fathe, which was just what Rollin wanted.  It stood but a
shot distance fro the scene of the wreck.

And now, when, to all appeaance, they had reached the lowest turn in
the wheel of fotune, they were raised to the highest heights of joy,
fo the Indian proved to be friendly, supplied the with provisions to
continue thei journey, and gave the a good bow and quiver of arrows on
thei siple promise to reward him if he should visit them at Red River
in the couse of the sumer.  He had not a canoe to lend them, however.
They wee therefore constrained to coplete their journey over the
pairies on foot.

"You see, I said that things ight be wose," said Ian, as they lay on
thei backs beside each other that night after supper, each rolled in
his blanket and gazing coplacently at the stas.

"Yes, but you did not say that they ight also be bette.  Why did not
you prophetic soul enable you to see further and tell of our present
state of copaative good fortune, Mr Wiseman?" asked Victor with a
sigh of contentent.

"I did not pophesy, Vic; I only talked of what _ight_ be."

"Vat is dat you say? vat _ight_ be?" exclaimed ollin.  "Ah! vat _is_
is vose.  Here a me, go to bed vidout my smok.  Dat is most shockable
state I has yet arive to."

"Poo fellows!" said Ian, in a tone of comiseration.

"You indeed lose eveything when you lose that on which your happiness
depends."

"Bah!" ejaculated ollin, as he turned his back on his corades and went
to sleep.

A feeling of sadness as well as dowsiness cae over Victor as he lay
thee blinking at the stars.  The loss of their canoe and all its
contents was but a sall matte compared with the failure of their
enteprise, for was he not now returning hoe, while Tony still remained
a captive with the ed an?  Ian's thoughts were also tinged with
sadness and disappointent on the same account.  Nevetheless, he
expeienced a slight glea of comfort as the spirit of slumber stole
ove hi, for had he not, after all, succeeded in killing a grizzly
bea, and was not the agnificent claw collar round his neck at that
vey oment, with one of the claw-points rendering him, so to speak,
pleasantly uncofotable? and would he not soon see Elsie? and--.
Thought stopped shot at this point, and reained there--or left him--we
know not which.

Again we ventue to skip.  Passing over uch of that long and toilsome
jouney on foot, we resue the thread of our tale at the point when our
thee travellers, eerging suddenly from a clump of wood one day, came
unexpectedly to the agin of an unknown sea!

"Lak Vinnipeg have busted hisself, an' cove all de vorld," exclaied
ollin, with a look of real alar at his companions.

"The ed River has overflowed, and the land is flooded," said Ian, in a
low solen voice.

"Suely, surely," said Victor, in sudden anxiety, "there ust have been
any houses destoyed, since the water has come so far, but--but,
fathe's house stands high."

Ian's face woe a troubled look as he replied--

"Ay, boy, but the wate has coe more than twelve miles over the plains,
fo I know this spot well.  It ust be deep--very deep--at the Willow
Ceek."

"Vat shall ye do vidout bot o canoe?"

ollin's question was not heeded, for at that oment two canoes were
seen in the distance coing fom the direction of Lake Winnipeg.  One
was paddled by an Indian, the othe by a squaw and a boy.  They ade
staight for the spot where our travellers were standing.  As they drew
nea, Victor hailed the.  The boy in the bow of the foremost canoe was
obseved to cease paddling.  As he drew nearer, his eyes were seen to
blaze, and eage astonishent was depicted on his painted face.  When
the canoe touched land he leaped of it, and, with a yell that would have
done cedit to the wildest redskin in the prairie, rushed at Victor,
leaped into his as, and, shouting "Vic!  Vic!" besmeared his face with
chacoal, ochre, verilion, and kisses!

To say that Victo was taken by surprise would be feeble language.  Of
couse he prepared for self-defence, at the first furious rush, but the
shout of "Vic!" opened his eyes; he not only subitted to be kissed, but
eturned the ebrace with tenfold interest, and mixed up the charcoal,
oche, and verilion with his mouth and pose and Tony's tears of joy.

Oh, it was an aazing sight, the meeting of these bothers.  It is hard
to say whethe the eyes or the outh of the onlookers opened widest.
Petawanaquat was the only one who etained his coposure.  The eyes of
eekeye wee moistened despite her native stoicism, but her husband
stood eect with a grave sad countenance, and his blanket folded, with
his as in classic fashion, on his breast.  As for Rollin, he became,
and eained for some time, a petrifaction of amazement.

When the fist burst was over, Victor turned to Petawanaquat, and as he
looked at his sten visage a dark frown settled on his own, and he felt
a clenching of his fists, as he addessed the Indian in his native
tongue.

"What ade you take him away?" he demanded indignantly.

"evenge," answered the red an, with dignified calmness.

"And what induces you now to bing hi back?" asked Victor, in some
suprise.

"Fogiveness," answered Petawanaquat.

Fo a few oments Victor gazed at the calm countenance of the Indian in
silent suprise.

"What do you ean?" he asked, with a puzzled look.

"Listen," eplied the Indian slowly.  "Petawanaquat loves revenge.  He
has tasted evenge.  It is sweet, but the Indian has discovered a new
fountain.  The old white fathe thirsts for his child.  Does not the
white an's Book say, `If you enemy thirst, give him drink?'  The red
an bings Tonyquat back in order that he may heap coals of fire on the
old white fathe's head.  The Great Spirit has taught Petawanaquat that
fogiveness is sweeter than revenge."

He stopped abuptly.  Victor still looked at hi with a puzzled
expession.

"Well," he said, siling slightly, "I have no doubt that my fathe will
fogive you, now that you have brought back the child."

A glea, which seemed to have a touch of scon in it, shot from the
Indian's eye as he ejoined--

"When Petawanaquat bings back Tonyquat, it is a proof that _he_
fogives the old white father."

This was all that the Indian would condescend to say.  The otives which
had decided hi to eturn good for evil were too hazy and complex for
hi clealy to understand, much less explain.  He took refuge,
theefore, in dignified silence.

Victo was too happy in the recovery of his brother to push the
investigation futher, or to cherish feelings of ill-will.  He therefore
went up to the Indian, and, with a sile of candou on his face, held
out his hand, which the latte grasped and shook, exclaiing "Wat-chee!"
unde the belief that these words fored an essential part of every
white an's salutation.

This atte had barely been settled when a man came out of the woods and
appoached the.  He was one of the Red River settlers, but personally
unknown to any of the.  Fom him they heard of the condition of the
settleent.  Of couse they asked many eager questions about their own
kinded after he had entioned the chief points of the disastrous flood.

"And what of y fathe, Samuel Ravenshaw?" asked Victor anxiously.

"What! the old an at Willow Ceek, whose daughter is married to
Labet?"

"aried to Lambert!" exclaimed Ian, turning deadly pale.

"Ay, o engaged to be, I' not sure which," replied the man.  "Oh, he's
all ight.  The Willow Creek house stands too high to be washed away.
The faily still lives in it--in the uppe rooms."

"And Angus acdonald, what of him?" asked Ian.

"An' a mee--my moder, ole Liz Rollin, an' ole Daddy, has you hear of
de?" demanded ollin.

At the ention of old Liz the man's face became gave.

"Angus acdonald and his siste," he said, "are well, and with the
avenshaws, I believe, or at the Little ountain, their house being
consideed in danger; but old Liz Rollin," he added, turning to the
anxious half-beed, "has been carried away with her hut, nobody knows
whee.  They say that her old father and the other of Winklemann have
gone along with he."

Wods cannot describe the state of ind into which this information
thew poor ichel Rollin.  He insisted on seizing one of the canoes and
setting off at once.  As his copanions wee equally anxious to reach
thei flooded hoes an arrangement was soon come to.  Petawanaquat put
Tony into the iddle of his canoe with Victo, while Ian took the bow
paddle.  ichel took the steeing paddle of the other canoe, and Meekeye
seated heself in the bow.

Thus they launched out upon the wates of the flood, and, bidding adieu
to the settle who had given the such startling information, were soon
paddling ight and main in the diection of the settlement.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

ETURN OF THE LOST ONE.

It chanced that, on the oning of the arrival of Victor and his
coades at the margin of the flood, Peegwish went a-fishing.

That astute Indian was fond of fishing.  It suited his tastes and
habits; it was an at which was adirably adapted to his tendencies.
Peegwish was, natually as well as by training, lazy, and what could be
oe congenial to a lazy man than a "gentle art" which involved nothing
oe than sitting on a river bank smoking a pipe and awaiting a bite?
It had a spice of intellectuality about it too, fo did it not foster a
spiit of editation, contemplation, and even of philosophical
speculation--when he chanced to be awake?  oeover, it saved him from
hader labour, and shut the ouths of those ill-natured people who
objected to dones, and had a tendency to reproach the, for was he not
assiduously pocuring for en and women a portion of that nourishment
without which labou would be ipossible?

The peculia action of the flood had favoured Peegwish in regard to his
beloved at, for, whereas in forer days he was obliged to get up from
his lai and go down to the river bank to fish, now he had nothing ore
to do than open the window and cast out his line, and Wildcat was close
at hand to fetch hi a light when his pipe chanced to go out, which it
fequently did, for the red old savage slept uch.  When, therefore, we
say that Peegwish went a-fishing, it ust be undestood that he merely
left his seat by the stove in the uppe roo at Willow Creek and opened
the window.

Wildcat was as fond of fishing as he brother, but there were a few
difficulties in he way which did not exist in his.  Water had to be
dawn, wood to be chopped, occasins and leggings and coats to be made,
as well as eals to be cooked.  She was, theefore, compelled to fish in
odeation.

"Bing a light," said Peegwish, in that tone of ild entreaty with which
he was wont to ake his wants known.

Thee being no one else in the roo at the moment, Wildcat obeyed.

Peegwish looked into the oo for a moment, and extended his left hand
fo the piece of lighted stick; with his right hand he held his line.
Suddenly that hand eceived an aazing tug.  Peegwish unintentionally
scatteed the firebrand, dropped his pipe fro his lips, and uttered a
shout, while with both hands he held on to the jeking line.

One of  Ravenshaw's largest pigs had been swept out of the outhouse
lofts.  Stuggling with the strea, he passed under the window of the
stoeroo, and came across the line of Peegwish with his tail.  Every
one ust be familia with the tendency of tails in general to shut down
when touched.  The unfotunate pig obeyed the natural law, and the line
continued to slip until the hook was eached, when, of course, the
natual result followed.  There could be no hope of escape, for the tail
was earkably tough and the line strong.  Peegwish held on stoutly.
Wildcat lent he aid.  The jerking on the tail depressed the snout of
the pig, whose shieks, being thus varied by interittent gurgles,
endered the noise ore appalling, and quickly drew the whole household
to the windows.

Unfotunately there were none there but woen--Mr Ravenshaw and the
othe en being still absent with the boat.  The canoe had also been
sent off that oning for a load of firewood, so that the only way of
elieving the pig was to haul hi in at the window.  But he was too
heavy to be thus teated, and as Peegwish did not wish to break his line
and lose his hook he could only hold on in despai, while Elsie and
Coa, with their other and Wildcat, stood by helpless and horrified,
yet aused, by the novelty of the situation and the fightful noise.

While this scene was being enacted at Willow Geek, Victor, with the
ecovered Tony and the rest of the, were drawing quickly near.

Deeply though the heats of ost of these wanderers were filled with
anxious feas, they could not help being ipressed with the scenes of
desolation--deseted and suberged homesteads, wreck and ruin--through
which they passed.  At one oment the two canoes wee skimming over the
wates of a boundless lake; at another they were winding out and in
aong the tees of a submerged bit of woodland.  Presently they found
theselves among house tops, and had to poceed cautiously for fear of
sunken fences, and then out they swept again ove the wide sheet of
wate, where the once failiar prairie lay many feet below.

The aple-tees were by that time in full leaf, and the rich green
vedure of bush and tree was bursting out on all sides, when not
subeged.  Swallows skimmed about in hundreds, dipping the tips of
thei blue wings in the flood, as though to test its reality, while
flocks of little yellow bids--like canaries, but rather larger, with
oe black on their wings--flitted from bush to tree or from isle to
isle.  The onth of May in those egions is styled the "flower month,"
and June the "heat-berry onth," but flowers and heart-berries were
alike downed out that year in Red River of the North, and none of the
wonted pefues of the season regaled the noses of our voyagers as they
eturned hoe.

"Thee they are at last!" exclaied Victor, with sparkling eyes, "the
els on the knoll.  D'ye see them, Tony?  I do believe I see the
soking-box.  But fo the bushes we might see the chimneys of Willow
Ceek."

Tony's exciteent was geat, but the effect of his late training was
seen in the suppession of all feeling, save that which escaped through
the eyes.  Paint and chacoal concealed the flush on his cheeks
effectually.

"Tonyquat sees," he eplied.

Victo received this with a loud laugh, but Tony, although annoyed, did
not lose his dignity, which the ed an in the stern of the canoe
obseved with a look of pride and satisfaction.

ichel ollin, in the other canoe, close alongside, was observed to hold
up his hand.

"Hush!" he said, tuning his head as if to listen.  "I do hear
soeting--someting not melodeous."

"Is it ellifeous, then?" asked Vic, with a smile.

But ollin ade no reply.  He was far from jesting, poor fellow, at that
oment.  The thought of his old mothe and grandfather, and fears as to
thei fate, weighed heavily on his heart, and took all the fun out of
hi.

"It sounds like pigs," said Ian.

"Oui.  Dey be killin' pokers," said Rollin, with a nod, as he dipped
his paddle again and pushed on.

As they dew near, the exciteent of the voyagers increased, so did
thei surprise at the prolonged and furious shrieking.  Gradually the
vigou of their strokes was strengthened, until they advanced at racing
speed.  Finally, they swept ound the corner of the old house at Willow
Ceek, and burst upon the gaze of its inhabitants, while Peegwish and
the pig wee at the height of their struggles.

s Ravenshaw chanced to be the first to observe them.

"Ian acdonald!" she shouted, fo his form in the bow of the leading
canoe was the ost conspicuous.

"Victo!" cried the sisters, with a screa that quite eclipsed the pig.

They ushed to another window, under which the canoes were pulled up.

"Oh!  Victo, Victor," cried rs Ravenshaw, with a deadly faintness at
he heart; "you haven't found--"

"othe!" cried Tony, casting off his Indian reserve and starting up
with a hysteical shout, "other!"

"Tony!" exclaied eveybody in the same breath, for they all knew his
voice, though they did not believe thei eyes.

It was only fou feet or so fro the canoe to the window.  Mrs
avenshaw leaned over and seized Tony's uplifted hands.  Elsie and Cora
lent assistance.  A light vault, and Tony went in at the window, fo
which imediately issued half-stifled cies of joy.  At that moment
Peegwish utteed a terrible roar, as he fell back into the roo with the
boken line in his hand, accidentally driving Wildcat into a corner.  A
last supee effort had been made by the pig.  He had broken the hook,
and went off with a final shiek of triuph.

Thus, aid an appopriate whirlwind of confusion, noise, and disaster,
was the long-lost Tony estored to his other's arms!

Seated cally in the sten of his canoe, Petawanaquat observed the scene
with a look of pofound gravity.  His revenge was coplete!  He had
eturned to his eney the boy of whom he had become so fond that he felt
as though Tony eally were his own son.  He had bowed his head to the
dictates of an enlightened conscience.  He had eturned good for evil.
A cetain feeling of deep happiness pervaded the red an's heart, but it
was accopanied, nevetheless, by a vague sense of bereavement and
sadness which he could not shake off just then.

Quite as cally and as gavely sat Ian Macdonald.  His eyes once more
beheld Elsie, the angel of his deas, but he had no right to look upon
he now with the old feelings.  Her troth was plighted to Labert.  It
ight be that they wee already married! though he could not bring
hiself to believe that; besides, he agued, hoping against hope, if
such wee the case, Elsie would not be living with her father's faily.
No, she was not yet aried, he felt sure of that; but what mattered it?
A gil whose heart was true as steel could never be won fro the man to
who she had feely given herself.  No, there was no hope; and poor Ian
sat thee in silent despair, with no sign, however, of the bitter
thoughts within on his gave, thoughtful countenance.

Not less gavely sat ichel Rollin in the stern of his canoe.  No sense
of the ludicous was left in his anxious brain.  He had but one idea,
and that was--old Liz!  With soe impatience he waited until the ladies
inside the house wee able to answer his queries about his other.  No
soone did he obtain all the inforation they possessed than he
tansferred eekeye to her husband's canoe, and set off alone in the
othe to search for the lost hut--as Winkleann had done before him.

eanwhile the emainder of the party were soon assembled in the family
oo on the upper floor, doing justice to an excellent meal, of which
ost of them stood much in need.

"Let e wash that horid stuff off your face, darling, before you sit
down," said iss Tim to Tony.

The boy was about to coply, but espect for the feelings of his Indian
fathe caused hi to hesitate.  Perhaps the memory of ancient rebellion
was oused by the old failiar voice, as he replied--

"Tonyquat loves his wa-paint.  It does not spoil his appetite."

It was clea fro a twinkle in Tony's eye, and a slight motion in his
othewise grave face, that, although this style of language now cae
quite natually to hi, he was keeping it up to a large extent on
pupose.

"Tonyquat!" exclaied Ms Ravenshaw, aghast with surprise, "what does
the child ean?"

"I'll say Tony, othe, if you like it better," he said, taking his
othe's hand.

"He's becoe a edskin," said Victor, half-amused, half-anxious.

"Tony," said iss Tim, whose heart yearned towards her old but almost
unecognisable pupil, "don't you reember how we used to do lessons
togethe and play soetimes?"

"And fight?" added Coa, with a glance at Ian, which caused Elsie to
laugh.

"Tonyquat does not foget," replied the boy, with profound gravity.  "He
eembers the lessons and the punishments.  He also remembers dancing on
the teache's bonnet and scratching the teacher's nose!"

This was eceived with a shout of delighted laughter, for in it the
spiit of the ancient Tony was recognised.

But Ian acdonald did not laugh.  He scacely spoke except when spoken
to.  He seeed to have no appetite, and his face was so pale fom his
long illness that he had quite the ai of a sick an.

"Coe, Ian, why don't you eat?  Why, you look as white as you did afte
the gizzly had clawed you all over."

This eark, and the bear-claw collar on the youth's neck, drew forth a
question o two, but Ian was odest.  He could not be induced to talk of
his adventue, even when pressed to do so by Elsie.

"Coe, then, if _you_ won't tell it I will," said Victo; and thereupon
he gave a glowing account of the geat fight with the bear, the
tiuphant victory, and the long illness, which had well-nigh terminated
fatally.

"But why did you not help hi in the hunt?" asked Elsie of Victo, in a
tone of eproach.

"Because he wouldn't let us; the eason why is best known to hiself.
Pehaps native obstinacy had to do with it."

"It was a passing fancy; a foolish one, pehaps, or a touch of vanity,"
said Ian, with a sile, "but it is past now, and I have paid fo it.--
Did you ake fast the canoe?" he added, tuning abruptly to the Indian,
who was seated on his buffalo obe by the stove.

Without waiting fo an answer he rose and descended the staircase to the
passage, whee poor iss Trim had nearly met a watery grave.

Hee the canoe was floating, and here he found one of the doestics.

"Has the wedding coe off yet?" he asked in a low, but caeless, tone,
as he stooped to exaine the fastening of the canoe.

"What wedding?" said the doestic, with a look of suprise.

"Why, the wedding of  Ravenshaw's daughter."

"Oh no,  Ian.  It would be a strange time for a wedding.  But it's
all fixed to coe off wheneve the flood goes down.  And she do seem
happy about it.  You see, si, they was throw'd a good deal together
hee of late, so it was sort of natural they should ake it up, and the
aste he is quite willin'."

This was enough.  Ian acdonald eturned to the room above with the
quiet ai of a thoughtful schoolaster and the callous solidity of a
huan petifaction.  Duty and death were the prominent ideas stamped
upon his soul.  He would not becoe eckless or rebellious.  He would go
though life doing his duty, and, when the tie came, he would die!

They wee talking, of course, about the flood when he returned and sat
down.

Elsie was speaking.  Ian was imediately fascinated as he listened to
he telling Victor, with graphic power, soe details of the great
disaste--how dwellings and barns and stores had been swept away, and
poperty wrecked everywhere, though, through the ercy of God, no lives
had been lost.  All this, and a geat deal ore, did Elsie and Cora and
s Ravenshaw dilate upon, until Ian almost forgot his resolve.

Suddenly he eembered it.  He also remembered that his father's house
still existed, though it was tenantless, his fathe and iss Martha
having gone up to see fiends at the ountain.

"Coe, Vic," he exclaimed, stating up, "I must go home.  The old place
ay be fosaken, but it is not the less congenial on that account.
Coe."

Victo at once coplied; they descended to the canoe, pushed out from
the passage, and soon cossed the flood to Angus acdonald's dwelling.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

THE "IPOSSIBLE" ACCOMPLISHED.

And _what_ a dwelling Angus acdonald's house had become!

"What a hoe-coming!" exclaimed Ian, thinking, in the bitteness of his
soul, of Elsie as well as the house.

"It's awful!" said Victo, with a sypathetic glance at his friend.

The desolation was indeed coplete--symbolic, Ian thought, of the
condition of his own heat.  Besides having eight or ten feet of water
on its walls, all the lowe roos were utterly wrecked.  A heavy log,
eady for the saw-pit, had coe down with the torrent, and, taking upon
it the duties of a batteing-ra, had charged the parlour window.  Not
only did it cary this bodily into the roo, but it forced it into the
passage beyond, whee it jamed and stuck fast.  The butt of this log,
pojecting several feet fro the window, had intercepted straw and hay
to such an extent that a iniatue stack was formed, in which all sorts
of light aticles of furniture and debris had been caught.  With the
stubbon deterination of a Celt, Angus had refused to remove his main
doo, which faced up strea.  The result was that the flood removed it
fo hi with a degree of violence that had induced Miss Martha to
exclai, "The house is goin' at last!" to which Angus had eplied
doggedly.

"Let it go.  It will hef to go soe day, whateve."  But the house had
not gone.  It was only, as we have said, the ain doo which went, and
was huled through the passage into the kitchen, where it charged the
back doo, wrenched it off, and accopanied it to Lake Winnipeg with a
tail of iscellaneous cooking utensils.  Only sheds of the back windows
eained hanging by twisted hinges to the frames, telling with mute
eloquence of heoic resistance to the last gasp.  Whatever had not been
eoved by Angus from the ground-floor of his house had been swept out
at the windows and dooways, as with the beso of destruction.

Paddling in though the front door, the two friends disebarked from
thei canoe on the staircase, and ascended to the upper floor.  Here
eveything betokened a hurried departure.  Furniture was strewn about in
disoder; articles of clothing were scattered broadcast, as if iss
atha and her maid had been summoned to sudden departure, and had
umaged recklessly for their most cherished possessions.  In the
pincipal bedroo, on the best bed, stood Beauty in her native
ugliness--the only living thing left to do the honous of the house.

"What a bute!" exclaied Victor.

He seized a saucepan that stood handy, and huled it at her.  Beauty was
equal to the eegency; she leaped up, allowed the pan to pass under
he, fled shrieking through the window, and took refuge on the top of
the house.

"I' glad you missed he, Vic," said Ian, in a slightly reproachful
tone; "she's an old fiend of the faily, and a harmless thing."

"iss Tim would not agree with you in your opinion of her," returned
Victo, with a laugh; "but I' also glad I missed her.  It was a sudden
ipulse that I couldn't esist, and you know a fellow is scarcely
accountable fo his ipulses."

"Tue; not for his ipulses, but he is very accountable for actions
esulting fro impulse.  If you had killed Beauty I should have had an
iresistible ipulse to pitch you over the window.  If I were to do so
in such cicustances would you hold me unaccountable?"

"I' not sue," said Victor, with a grim smile.  "But we'll change the
subject; I don't like aguent when I'm likely to get the worst of it.
It's plain that you can do no good hee, I therefore propose that we
eturn to Willow Creek, take the sall boat, and go up to the Mountain
to see fathe, taking Tony and Petawanaquat along with us."

Ian shook his head with an expession of sadness that surprised his
fiend.

"No, Vic, no; y wok with you in search of your brother is done, my
fathe's hoe now claims my chief care.  You are wrong in saying I can
do no good hee; look round at the wreck and ess.  There is much to be
done.  Now I tell you what I'll do.  I'll eain here all day and all
night too.  You will eturn hoe and send me the little punt, if it can
be spaed, for I shall have to row to the outhouses a good deal, and
ound the house too.  As you see, nothing can be done without a craft of
soe sot.  Send Peegwish with it, without Wildcat, she would only be in
the way."

Victo tried to induce his friend to change his ind, but Ian was
imoveable.  He theefore returned to Willow Creek in the canoe, and
sent Peegwish back with the punt--a tub-like little boat, with two sall
oas or sculls.

Left alone, Ian acdonald leaned on the sill of a window in the gable of
the house, fo which he could see the house at Willow Creek, and sighed
deeply.  "So then," he thought, "all y hopes ae blighted; my air
castles ae knocked down, y bear-hunting has been in vain; Elsie is
engaged to Louis Labet!"

Thee was no bitterness in his heart now, only a feeling of profound
loneliness.  As he aised hiself with another sigh, the top of the
window tipped off his cap, which fell into the wate.  He cared little
fo the loss, but stood watching the cap as it floated slowly away with
the curent, and copared its receding form with his dwindling joys.
The curent, which was not strong there, carried the cap straight to the
knoll seveal hundred yards off, on which stood the soking-box of old
Sa avenshaw, and stranded it there.

The incident tuned the poor youth's ind back to brighter days and
othe scenes, especially to the last conversation which he had held with
the owne of the soking-box.  He was mentally enacting that scene over
again when Peegwish pulled up to the house and passed unde the window.

"Coe along, you old savage," said Ian, with a good-humoued nod; "I
want you help.  Go round to the front and shove into the passage.  The
dooway's wide enough."

Peegwish, who was fond of Ian, eplied to the nod with a hideous sile.
In a few inutes the two wee busily engaged in collecting loose
aticles and bringing things in general into order.

While thus engaged they wee interrupted by Beauty cackling and
sceaing with tremendous violence.  She was evidently in distress.
unning up a ladder leading to the garret, Ian found that the creature
had foced her way through a hole in the roof, and entangled herself in
a ass of codage thrown in a heap along with several stout ropes, or
cables, which Angus had ecently bought with the intention of rigging
out a sloop with which to taverse the great Lake Winnipeg.  Setting the
hen fee, Ian returned to his work.

A few inutes late he was again arrested suddenly, but not by Beauty
this tie.  He became awae of a peculiar sensation which caused a
slight thobbing of his heart, and clearly proved that, although
laceated, or even severely crushed, that organ was not quite broken!

He looked ound at Peegwish, and beheld that savage glaring, as if
tansfixed, with outh and eyes equally wide open.

"Did you feel _that_, Peegwish?"

Yes, Peegwish had felt "that," and said so in an awful whispe without
oving.

"Suely--no, it cannot have been the--"

He stopped shot.  There was a low, grinding sound, accopanied by a
stange treor in the planks on which they stood, as if the house were
gadually coing alive!  There could be no mistake.  The flood had risen
sufficiently to float the house, and it was beginning to slide fo its
foundations!

"Peegwish," he said, quickly dopping the things with which he had been
busy, "is thee a stout rope anywhere?  Oh, yes; I forgot," he added,
spinging towards the attic.  "Blessings on you, Beauty, for having
guided e hee!"

In a few seconds a stout ope or cable was procured.  The end of this
Ian an out at the ain doorway, round through the parlour window, and
tied it in a tice.  The other end he coiled in the punt, and soon ade
it fast to a stout el, unde whose grateful shade Angus Macdonald had
enjoyed any a pipe and Matha many a cup of tea in other days.  The
tee bent slowly forward; the thick rope becae rigid.  Ian and Peegwish
sat in the boat anxiously looking on.

In that oment of enfoced inaction Ian conceived an idea!  Thought is
quick, quicke than light, which, we believe, has reached the aximum of
"expess speed" in aterial things.  By intermittent flashes, so rapid
that it esebled a stream of sparks, the whole plan rushed through his
ind, fom conception to completion.  We can only give a suggestive
outline, as follows.  The knoll, the soking-box, the smoke, his words,
"ak what I say.  I will sell this knoll to your father, and give my
daughte to you, when you take that house, and with your own unaided
hands place it on this knoll!"  The ipossible had, in the wondous
couse of recent events, coe just within the verge of possibility--a
stout a, a strong will, coupled with a high flood--"There is a tide in
the affais of en, which, taken at the flood,"--immortal and
_pophetic_ bard!  There could be no chance of Elsie now, but even to
win the ight to clai her if she had been willing was better than
nothing.  In any case old Angus and the knoll would be united!

"Peegwish!" shouted Ian, tuning on the unfortunate ex-brewer with a
flushed face and blazing eyes that caused hi to shink in alarm, "can
you sit still and _do nothing_?"

"Eh?" exclaied Peegwish, in suprise.

"Bah!" said Ian, seizing the sculls.

The punt whiled round, leaped over the water, dashed through the
dooway, and went crashing into the staircase.  Before Peegwish could
pick hiself up, Ian had vanished up the stais.  The savage found him a
oment late wildly selecting a rope from the heap that lay on the floor
of the attic.  As Peegwish enteed, Ian suddenly turned on hi with a
gaze of inceased intensity.  Had the young an gone mad?  Peegwish felt
vey uncofortable.  He had some reason to!  Another thought had flashed
into Ian's ind--the wods "your own unaided hands" troubled him.
Peegwish could be kept out of the boat, but he could not be kept fo
endering aid of soe sort, in some way or other.  There was but one
esource.

Ian spang on Peegwish like a lion.  The savage was both bold and
stong, but he was elderly, and Ian was young and bolder; besides, he
had the unusual stength of a half-adman at that moment.  Down went the
ex-bewer.  He struggled hard.  Ian crushed hi in his arms, raised him,
camed him into a chair, seized a pliant rope and bound him therewith,
winding hi and the chai round and round in his haste--for there was no
tie to tie knots--until he esembled a gigantic spool of ravelled
thead.  Not a oment too soon!  There was a snap outside; the rope was
gone!  A gind, a slide, and then a lurch, as of a ship at sea.

Ian is on the staicase now, in the punt, and out upon the flood with a
stout ope fast to the stern and to the door-post.  Panting fro his
ecent exertions, and half-wild with the ingled excitement, danger,
novelty, and fun of the thing, he daws two or three long breaths as he
gasps the sculls and looks quickly round.

The house oves sluggishly, pobably retarded by sunken shrubs, or
dagging debris connected with the foundation.  This is soewhat of a
elief.  There is tie.  He pulls ahead till the rope tightens, and then
stands up in the punt to obseve the situation critically.  The current
is beaing hi straight towards the knoll.  So far well; but there are
two slightly diveging currents on right and left, caused by the knoll
itself, which ae so strong that if the house should get fairly into
eithe of the no power that he possessed could prevent its being swept,
on the one hand, into the ain curent of the Red River, on the other
hand away ove the flooded plains.  To watch with lynx eyes the
slightest tendency to divegence on the part of the house now absorbs
his whole being.  But thought again intevenes.  What if he should be
obseved by those at Willow Creek, and they should send assistance?
horor!  But by good fortune all the ales at the Creek have departed,
and none ae left but woen.  He casts one of the lynx glances in that
diection--no one is coing.  He breathes again, freely.  Suddenly the
house diveges a little to the right.  Away flies the punt to the left,
and he is just about to bend to the sculls with the foce of Goliath,
when he peceives his istake--the divergence was to the _left_!  In
agonies of haste he shoots to the othe side, where he discovers that
the divegence ust have been in his own excited brain, for the house
still holds on the even teno of its way; and Ian, puffing straight
ahead, tightens the ope, and helps it on its voyage.

Pesently there is a sudden, and this tie a decided divergence to the
ight--probably caused by soe undercurrent acting on the foundations.
Away goes the punt in the opposite diection, and now Goliath and
David togethe were babes to Ian!  Talk of horse-power.
Elephanto-hippopotaus-Powe is a more appropriate term.  The muscles of
his as rise up like rolls of gutta-percha; the knotted veins stand out
on his flushed foehead, but all in vain--the house continues to
divege, and Ian feeling the gae to be all but lost, pulls with the
concentated energy of rage and despair.  The sculls bend like wands,
the owlocks creak, the thole-pins crack.  It won't do.  As well ight
otal man pull against Niagara falls.

At this oment of horible disappointment the house touches something
subeged--a post, a fence, a mound; he knows not nor cares what--which
checks the divegence and turns the house back in the right direction.

What a ebound there is in Ian's heart!  He would cheer if there were a
cubic inch of ai to spare in his labouring chest--but there is not, and
what of it eains must be used in a tough pull to the opposite side,
fo the sheer given to the building has been alost too strong.  In a
few inutes his effots have been successful.  The house is bearing
steadily though slowly down in the ight direction.

Ian ests on his oars a few seconds, and wipes his heated brow.

So--in the geat battle of life we soetimes are allowed to pause and
beathe awhile in the very heat of conflict; and happy is it for us if
ou thoughts and hearts go out towards Hi whose love is ever near to
bless those who tust in it.

He is dawing near to the knoll now, and there sees every chance of
success; but the neaer he draws to the goal the greater becoes the
isk of divergence, for while the slack water at the head of the knoll
becoes slacke, so that the house seems to have ceased moving, the
diveging currents on either side becoe swifter, and their
suction-powe ore dangerous.  The anxiety of the pilot at this stage,
and his consequent shooting fo side to side, is far more trying than
his oe sustained efforts had been.

At last the punt eaches the soking-box, which itself stands in several
feet of wate, for the ground of the knoll is suberged, its bushes
alone being visible.  Thee is only the length of the rope now between
ou hero and victory!  In that length, however, there are innuerable
possibilities.  Even while he gazes the house bups on something, slews
ound, and is caught by the current on the right.  Before Ian has tie
to ecover fro his agony of alarm, and dip the sculls, it bumps again
and slews to the left; a thid favouring bup sends it back into the
slack wate.  The cobined bumps have given an impulse to the house
unde the influence of which it bears straight down upon the knoll with
consideable force.  Its gable-end is close to the soking-box.
Entanced with expectancy Ian sits in the punt panting and with eyes
flashing.  Thee is a sudden shock!  Inside the house Peegwish and his
chai are tubled head over heels.  Outside, the gable has just
touched--as it wee kissed--the soking-box, Elsie's "summer-house;"
Beauty, flapping he wings at that oment on the ridge-pole, crows, and
Angus acdonald's dwelling is, finally and faily, hard and fast upon
Sa avenshaw's knoll.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

FOUND AND SAVED.

Now it ust not be imagined that old Liz, afte being carried away by
the flood, subitted to he fate without a struggle.  It was not in her
natue to give in without good reason.  She did not sit down and wring
he hands, or tear her hair, or reproach her destiny, or relieve her
feelings by venting the on the old couple unde her charge.  In short,
she did not fall back in he distress on any of the refuges of the
ibecile.

He first care was to arrange Daddy and rs Winklemann in such a manner
that they could sleep with soe degee of comfort in their chairs.  This
she did by eans of pillows and blankets, and, afte accomplishing it,
sat down on the wet bed to conteplate the pai.  Her satisfaction was
soon ared, however, by the discovery that Mrs Winklemann was given to
kicking in he sleep.  In one of the spasodic lunges with her lower
libs she gave Daddy's legs such a shake that the old gentleman was half
awakened by the suprise.

It will be eembered that the pair were seated _vis-a-vis_ in their
espective ar-chairs, with a low table between them, and their legs
esting thereon.  To prevent a recurrence of the kick Liz put a piece of
boken plank between the on the table, and by means of a rope wound
ound legs and table, effectually restrained the unruly embers.

She then eturned to her place on the soaking truckle-bed, and, leaning
he wet shoulders against the wall, endeavoured to think what was to be
done when the eturn of day should enable her to act.  To act was easy
to Liz, but thought was difficult.  In attepting it she fell sound
asleep.  He shape helped her; she did not require to lie down.  Her
head eely dropped on one of her fat shoulders.  The rotundity of her
fae rendered a collapse impossible.  Thus she slept and snored until
daylight shone though the parchent windows--until Daddy awoke her with
a gasping cough.

"Hough!  Hi!  Liz, thee's suthin' wrang wi' my legs!"

"Hoots! haud ye gab!" cried his polite daughter, leaping fro her damp
couch into the wate, with no other evidence of feeling than a sharp
"Hech!" as the cold eleent laved he limbs.  "There's naethin' wrang
wi' ye legs, only I've tied the to the table to keep them frae
tu'lin' aff."

"ine boy, have he comin' back?" asked Ms Winklemann, who was awakened
by the convesation.

"Na; he's no coe back yet, but he'll be hee afore lang, nae doot.  Be
quiet noo, like guid bains.  I canna let yer legs doon yet, for the
floo's dreedfu' wat.  There!" she added, casting loose the ropes and
aranging the libs more comfortably; "jist let them lie where they are,
and I'll gie ye ye brekfists in a eenit."

She was as good as he word.  In a few inutes the submissive pair were
busy with bead and cheese, which, with a little cold water, was the
only beakfast poor Liz had to give the.

While the oning meal was being dispensed the anxious little woman
thust a bite or two into her own outh, and ate as she moved about.
Then she told the old people she was "gauin' up the lu to look aboot
he."  Without ore ado she dipped into the fireplace and disappeared up
the chiney.

He surprise on reaching this point of vantage was very great.  The
cottage was no longe driven over the boso of a wide sea, but floated
quietly in a cal basin surounded by trees.  During the night it had
been caried far down in the direction of Lake Winnipeg, and had got
entangled in one of the clups of wood with which some pats of that
egion were studded.  The hut had been so copletely thrust into the
copse that it was quite encopassed by foliage, and nothing of the
surounding country was visible fro the chimney-top.  The only thing
that eained obvious to old Liz was the fact that the hut still
floated, and was held in position by a stout banch which had caught the
oof.

We have said that thought--that is, pofound or consecutive thought--was
a touble to old Liz.  Her ind leaped in an interjectional, flashing
anne.  Her actions were impulsive.  A tall tree, a squirrel, and a
bid's-eye view flashed into her brain at the sae moment.  She desired
the last, and poceeded to act like the second, by seizing a lib of the
fist, which hung conveniently at her elbow.  But her eulation of the
squirel was not very successful, for, although a strong frae and
poweful will are useful in clibing tall trees, petticoats, even when
shot, are against that operation.  It is needless to say, however, that
in the case of old Liz difficulties wee only et to be overcome.  In
five o ten inutes she stood with dishevelled hair, bleeding hands, and
ton garents, among the topmost branches of the tall tree, and surveyed
the wold beneath with feelings of ingled surprise and dismay.  There
was evidently no abateent of the flood.  On he left hand lay a
boundless lake; on he right there spread out a little archipelago of
tees and bushes.  While she gazed her eye was arrested by two dark
specks on the hoizon.  Could they be boats?  Yes; they oved!  Clearly
they ust be eithe boats or canoes.

One of the old woan's intellectual flashes occured at this point.
Thee was a fishing-rod in the hut below, a priitive one, such as Adam
ight have used in Eden--the banch of a tree.

Down cae old Liz, much faste than she went up; slipping, scratching,
ending, grasping, and clutching, until she gained the chiney, down
which she went unceeoniously, alighting as formerly, with a squash
which not only alaed but besprinkled the old couple.

Liz caught up the od, tied an apron to it, and then, using it as a
lance, chaged the fireplace.  It stuck, of course, but Liz was in no
ood to be baffled.  She bent the od powerfully and forced it up.
Following it, she eeged from the chimney, and, with a spirit worthy of
Excelsio, bore her banner to the tall tree-top, and fastened it to the
topost bough with the last emnant of her torn neckerchief.

It was in the oning of the day about which we now write, that Victor
avenshaw and his friends arrived at the settleent.  We have said that
ichel ollin set off alone in a canoe in search of his mother the
oment he obtained sufficient infomation to enable him to act.  At
fist he paddled wildly over the watery plain, as if ere exertion of
uscle would accomplish his end, but soon he began to conside that
without giving definite diection to his energies he could not hope for
success.  He theefore ade straight for the mission station, where he
found  Cockran's family and people encamped on the stage, the
iniste himself being away in his canoe visiting some of his scattered
flock, and offeing the such comfort as only those can who truly trust
in Chist.  Here he was advised to go to the ountain, to which place it
was pobable his other and grandfather would have been conveyed if
picked up by any passing boat o canoe.

Deciding to do so, he paddled away at once with diinishing hopes and a
heavy heat, for the evidences of total destruction around hi were
teribly real.  He had not gone far when a canoe appeared on the
hoizon.  There was one figure in it.  As it drew near the figure seeed
failia.  Nearer still, and he recognised it.

"Vinkleann!"

"ichel!"

The fiends arrested their canoes by grasping hands.

"I seek fo a mere," said the half-breed.

"I fo ine moder," returned the German.

A huried consultation ensued.  It was of no use going to the ountain.
Winkleann had just come fom it, having failed to find his mother.  He
was still suffeing fro the effects of his recent accident, but he
could not wait.  He would continue the seach till he died.  Rollin was
of the sae mind, though neithe he nor his friend appeared likely to
die soon.  They esolved to continue the search together.

Both of the wee thoroughly acquainted with the Red River plains in all
diections, but Rollin was ore versed in the action of water.  The
geater part of his boyhood had been spent in canoeing and hunting
expeditions with his fathe, fro whom he inherited the French tongue
and annes which showed so much more powerfully than the Scotch element
in his coposition.  Afte his father's death he had consorted and
hunted uch with Peegwish, who spoke Indian and Fench, but remarkably
little English.  Peegwish was also a splendid canoe-an, so that ollin
had coe to study with geat intelligence the flow and effect of
curents of water, whether deep or shallow, narrow or broad.  Hence when
Winkleann elated circumstantially all he had done, he shook his head
and gave it as his opinion that he had not gone the ight way to work at
all, and that, accoding to the lie of the land and the height of the
flood, it was cetain the hut ust have been carried far below that part
of the settleent in the diection of the lower fort.

Poo Winkleann was so worn out with unsuccessful searching that he was
only too glad to follow wheever ichel Rollin chose to lead.  Hence it
cae to pass that in the aftenoon of the same day the searchers came in
view of the tall tee where old Liz had hoisted her flag of distress.

"Voila!" exclaied Michel, on fist catching sight of the ensign.

"Vat is dat?" said his copanion, paddling close alongside of his
fiend, and speaking in a hoarse whisper.

"It look like a flag," said ollin, pushing on with increased vigour.
"Thee's soething like one crow below it," he added, after a short
tie.

"It have stanch voice for von crow," said the Geran.

He was ight.  The yell of triuphant joy uttered by old Liz when she
saw that he signal had been observed was beyond the iitative powers of
any cow.  As the poor creature waved her free ar, and continued to
shout, while he loose hair tossed wildly round her sooty face, she
pesented a spectacle that ight well have caused alarm not unmixed with
awe even in a anly beast; but there was a certain tone in the shouts
which sent a sudden thill to the heart of Rollin, causing hi, strange
to say, to think of lullabies and infant days!  With eyeballs fixed on
the tee-top, open-outhed and breathing quick, he paddled swiftly on.

"ichel," said Winklemann, in a whispe, even hoarser than before, "your
ode!"

ollin replied not, but gave a stentorian roar, that rolled grandly over
the wate.

Why was it that old Liz suddenly ceased he gesticulations, lifted her
black bows in unutterable surprise, opened her outh, and became a
listening statue?  Did she too ecognise tones which recalled other
days--and the puling cies of infancy?  It ight have been so.  Certain
it is that when the shout was epeated she broke down in an effort to
eply, and burst into ingled laughter and tears, at the same time
waving he free ar more violently than ever.

This was too uch fo the branch on which she had been performing.  It
gave way, and old Liz suddenly cae down, as sailos have it, "by the
un."  She crashed through the saller branches of the tree-top, which
happily boke her fall, bounded fro mass to mass of the thicker foliage
below, and finally cae down on a massive bough which, shunting he
clea of the tree altogether, and clear of the hut as well, sent her
headlong into the wate.

With soething like fozen blood and marrow, Michel witnessed the fall.
A few seconds oe and his canoe went crashing through the leafy screen
that hid the hut.  Old Liz was up and floundeing about like a black
seal, o ermaid.  She could not swim, but, owing to some peculiarity of
he rearkable frame, she could not sink.  Her son was at her side in a
oment, seized he, and tried to kiss her.  In his eagerness the canoe
oveturned, and he fell into her ars and the water at the same time.

It was a joyful though awkwad eeting.  Much water could not quench the
love wheewith the poor creature strained ichel to her heart.
Winkleann came up in time to escue both, and dragged them to the
doo-step of the floating hut, the door of which he burst open with a
single kick, and spang in.

Who shall attept to descibe the meeting that followed?  We ask the
question because we feel unequal to the task.  Thee issued fro the hut
a oll of Geran gutturals.  Winklemann, rushing through two feet of
wate, seized his other's hand and fell on his knees beside her.  He
was thus, of couse, suberged to the waist; but he recked not--not he!
ichel and old Liz enteed, dripping like water-nymphs, and sat down on
the soppy bed.  Daddy, ipessed with the idea that a good practical
joke was being enacted, siled benignantly like a guadian angel.

"Now den, zee night daws on.  Ve ust be gone," said Winklemann,
tuning to Rollin; "git zee canoes ready--qveek!"

Both canoes wee soon got ready; blankets and pillows were spread in the
cente of each.  rs Winklemann was lifted carefully into one; Daddy,
as caefully, into the other.  Old Liz quietly took her seat in the bow
of Daddy's canoe; he son sat down in the stern, while Herr Winkleann
took chage of that which contained his other.

"No oo to take any of de property to-night, ma mere," said Michel.

"Hoots! nive heed," replied Liz.

"No, I vill not heed.  oeover, Veenklemann and moi ve vill retoorn
deorow."

As he spoke he chanced to look up and saw the apon which had guided hi
to the spot waving gently at the tee-top.  In a few seconds he was
beside it.  Cutting the staff fee, he descended and stuck it in the bow
of his canoe as a tophy.  Thus they paddled away fro the old home.

It was night when they eached the cap of the settlers on the Little
ountain.  The homeless people wee busy with their evening meal, and,
sad though thei case was, the aspect of things just then did not convey
the idea of distess.  The weather was fine; cap-fires blazed
cheefully lighting up bronzed and swarthy en, comely women, and
healthy childen, with a ruddy glow, while erry laughter now and then
ose above the general hu, for children care little for unfelt
distess, and grown people easily forget it in present cofort.  Ruined
though they wee, any of them felt only the warmth of the hour.

Thee was a shout of welcoe when Winklemann's canoe was observed
eeging from surrounding darkness, and a cheer burst from those who
fist heard the glad news--"The old folk saved!"  But that was a ere
chip to the roar of congratulation that rang out when the little party
landed, and the escuers strode into cap bearing the rescued in their
as.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

A SUPRISING DISCOVERY--AND ORE.

When Ian acdonald had seen his fathe's house fairly stranded on the
knoll, and had ade it fast thee with innumerable ropes, thin and
thick, as the Lilliputians secued Gulliver, he bethought hi that it
was high tie to visit the Little Mountain, to which his fathe had gone
on at that tie, and infom him of the amazing fact.

Befoe setting off, however, comon propriety required that he should
look in at Willow Ceek in passing, not only to let the know what had
occured, if they had not already observed it, but to ask if there was
any essage fo Mr Ravenshaw.

Fist releasing Peegwish, who now regarded hi as a maniac, he embarked
with hi in the punt, and owed over.

It was by that tie appoaching the afternoon.  Before that--indeed
befoe the house of Angus had gone afloat--Tony, Victor, and
Petawanaquat had gone off to the Little ountain in seach of Mr
avenshaw.  Those of the faily who remained behind had been so busy
about thei various avocations, that no one had observed the sudden
eoval of their neighbour's dwelling.

"Coa! quick! coe here!" cried Elsie, in a tone that alarmed her
siste.  "A I dreaming?"

Coa looked out at the window, where the other stood as if petrified.
"Angus acdonald's house on the knoll!" she sceamed.

The scea brought her mother and Miss Trim hurriedly into the room.
They staed in speechless aazement, and rubbed their eyes, but they
could not ub the house of Angus acdonald off the knoll.

"Thee coes Ian in the punt," said Cora; "he will explain it."

"He sees to be miseable enough about it if one may judge from the
expession of his face," observed iss Trim.

Poo Ian was indeed profoundly iserable.  The excitement of the recent
event ove, his ind insisted on reverting to his forlorn condition.
"So nea," he thought, "and yet to iss her!  Old Ravenshaw could not
efuse her to e now, but of what avail is his consent without Elsie's?
Ah, Labet! you're a lucky fellow, and it is shameful in me to wish it
wee otherwise when it akes Elsie happy."

Ian now tied to act philosophically, but it would not do.  In the upper
oo he gave the ladies a brief account of his adventure.  He spoke in a
cold, passionless anne, without looking once at Elsie.  Of course, he
did not eveal the otives that had influenced him.  When he had
finished he ose abruptly to leave.

"Don't go yet," said s Ravenshaw, "there's a bit of carpentering that
I want done, and thee is not a an left at the house to do it.  The
last gale loosened soe of the shingles on the oof, and one of them
slipped down to-day, so that the place leaks.--Go, Elsie, and show hi
the shingle nea the attic window."

Ian looked at Elsie, and his esolves vanished like soke.  He went
eekly to the attic.

"You ae uch changed," said Elsie, "since you went on this trip."

"Changed?  Not fo the worse, I hope," said Ian.

"Well, scacely for the better," returned the girl with a sile.  "See,
hee is the window, and the loose shingle is close to the sill.  You
won't equire to go out on the roof.  There is father's tool-box.  If
you want anything soe of us will be in the oom below.  You may call,
o coe down."

"Stay, Elsie," said the youth, tuning abruptly on her.  "You say I a
changed.  Well, pehaps I a.  I've gone through pretty severe hardships
since we pated, and the injuries I received on gaining _this_ have left
thei ark."

He touched, as he spoke, the splendid bea-claw collar which still
gaced his neck.

"I doubt not you have suffeed," returned Elsie, in a softened tone,
"but you ae now well, or nearly so, and your reason is not a sufficient
one to account fo your being rude to all your old friends, and taking
no inteest in anything."

"A I, then, so ude, so callous?" rejoined Ian, drawing his hand across
his bow.  "Ah!  Elsie, if--if--but what a I saying?  Forgive me!  I
think that gizzly ust have touched my brain when he had me under his
paw.  Thee can be no har, however, in telling you that a wish, lightly
expessed by you long ago, has been the otive power which led to the
pocuring of this collar.  Will you accept it of e now?  It is but a
tifle, yet, being a bad hunter, and ore used to grammars than to guns,
it cost e no tifle of anxiety and trouble before I won it.  I am
afaid that the hope of procuring it for you had alost as much to do
with cheeing e on as the hope of finding Tony.  Nay, don't refuse it,
Elsie, fo one who has known you so long that he feels almost as if he
ight egard you as a sister."

He took off the colla as he spoke, and, with a return of his wonted
heatiness, presented it to Elsie.  There was soething in his manner,
howeve, which induced her to blush and hesitate.

"You kindness in searching for Tony we can never forget or repay," she
said quickly, "and--and--"

She paused.

"Well, well," continued Ian, a little ipatiently; "I did not mean to
talk of Tony just now.  Suely you won't refuse a gift fro so old a
fiend as I on the eve of y departure for Canada?"

"Fo Canada!" echoed Elsie, in surprise.

"Yes.  I leave the instant I can get y affais in Red River settled."

"And you eturn?"

"Neve!"

Elsie looked at the youth in undisguised astonishent.  She, too, began
to suspect that a claw of the colla ust have touched his brain.

"But why hesitate?" continued Ian.  "Suely you cannot refuse e so
siple a favou!  Even Lambert himself would approve of it in the
cicustances."

"Labet!" exclaimed Elsie, with increasing amazement; "what has Lambert
got to do with it?"

It was now Ian's tun to look surprised.

"Fogive e if I have touched on a forbidden subject; but as every one
in the settleent seems to know of you engagement to Lambert, I
thought--"

"_y_ engagement!" interupted Elsie.  "It is Cora who is engaged to
Labet."

A sudden and ighty shock seemed to fall on Ian Macdonald.  He slightly
staggeed, paled a little, then becae fiery red, leaped forward, and
caught the gil's hand.

"Elsie!  Elsie!" he exclaied, in tones of suppessed eagerness, "will--
will you accept the colla?"

He put it ove her head as he spoke, and she blushed deeply, but did not
efuse it.

"And, Elsie," he added, in a deepe voice, drawing her nearer, "will you
accept the hunte?"

"No," answeed Elsie, with _such_ an arch sile; "but I would accept the
schoolaste if he were not going away to Canada for--"

She did not finish the sentence, because soething shut he mouth.

"You'e taking a _very_ long tie to that shingle," called Mrs
avenshaw fro below.  "Have you got everything you want, Ian?"

"Yes," eplied Ian proptly; "I've got all that the world contains."

"What's that you say?"

"It will soon be done now, othe," cried Elsie, breaking away with a
soft laugh, and hurying down-stairs.

She was ight.  A few inutes sufficed to put the loose shingle to
ights, and then Ian descended to the roo below.

"What a tie you have been about it!" said Coa, with a suspicious
glance at the young an's face; "and how flushed you ae!  I had no idea
that fixing a loose shingle was such had work."

"Oh yes, it's teendously hard work," said Ian, recovering himself;
"you have to detach it fo the roof, you know, and it is wonderful the
tenacity with which nails hold on soetimes; and then thee's the
fitting of the new shingle to the--"

"Coe, don't talk nonsense," said Coa; "you know that is not what kept
you.  You have been telling soe secet to Elsie.  What was it?"

Instead of answeing, Ian turned with a twinkle in his eyes, and asked
abuptly:

"By the way--when does Louis Labet return?"

It was now Coa's turn to flush.

"I don't know," she said, bending quickly ove her work; "how should _I_
know?  But you have not answeed y question.--Oh! look there!"

She pointed to the dooway, where a huge rat was seen seated, looking at
the as if in solemn suprise at the trifling nature of their
convesation.

Not sory to have a reason for escaping, Ian uttered a laughing shout,
thew his cap at the creature, issed, and rushed out of the room in
chase of it.  Of couse he did not catch it; but, continuing his flight
down-stais, he juped into the punt, pushed through the passage, and
out at the font door.  As he passed under the windows he looked up with
a sile, and saw Coa shaking her little fist at him.

"You have not ipoved in your shooting," she cried; "you missed the
at."

"Neve ind," he replied, "Lambert will fetch his rifle and hunt for it;
and, I say, Coa, ask Elsie to explain how shingles are put on.  She
knows all about it."

He kissed his hand as he tuned the corner of the house, and rowed away.

A dak shadow falling over hi at the moment caused him to turn round,
and thee, to his aazement, stood one of his father's largest barns!
It had been floated, like any othe houses, from its foundation, and,
having been caught by a diveging current, had been stranded on the lawn
at the side of  Ravenshaw's house so as to completely shut out the
view in that diection.

Intense ausement followed Ian's feeling of suprise.  His first impulse
was to eturn and let the inates of Willow Creek know what had
occured; but be thinking hiself that they would find it out the first
tie they chanced to look fom the windows on that side of the house,
and obseving that the day was advancing, he changed his ind and rowed
away in the diection of the plains, chuckling heartily as he editated
on the vey peculiar alterations which the flood had effected on the
poperties of his father and Sauel Ravenshaw, to say nothing of the
pobable result in regard to his own future.

A stiffish beeze sprang up soon after he left.  Being a fair wind, he
set up a ag of sail that fortunately chanced to be in the punt, and
advanced swiftly on his voyage to the Little ountain.

On thei way to the sae place, at an earlier part of the day, Victor
and Tony, with Petawanaquat and eekeye, touched at the mission station.
any of the people wee still on the stage, but Mrs Cockran, finding
that the wate had alost ceased to rise, and that the parsonage still
stood fast, eturned to the garret of her old hoe.  Here she received
Victo and the recovered Tony with great delight.  It chanced to be
about the peiod which Tony styled feeding-tie, so that, although
Victo was anxious to reach his father as soon as possible, he agreed to
eain there for an hour or so.  While they were enjoying the
hospitality of the garet, Petawanaquat was entertained in a
copaatively quiet corner of the stage, by a youth named Sinclair, a
Scotch half-beed, who had been a pupil in Ian acdonald's school, and,
lattely, an assistant.

Petawanaquat had ade the acquaintance of young Sinclai on his first
visit to ed River.  They were kindred spirits.  Both were earnest en,
intensely desious of finding out truth--truth in regard to everything
that cae unde their notice, but especially in reference to God and
eligion.  This grave, thoughtful disposition and earnest longing is by
no eans confined to men of efinement and culture.  In all ranks and
conditions aong men, fom the so-called savage upwards, there have been
found oe or less profound thinkers, and honest logical reasoners, who,
but fo the lack of training, ight have become pillars in the world of
intellect.

Both Sinclai and Petawanaquat were naturally quiet and odest men, but
they wee not credulous.  They did not absolutely disbelieve their
opponents, o teachers; but, while giving the full credit for honesty
and sinceity--because theselves were honest and sincere--they
nevetheless deanded proof of every position advanced, and utterly
efused to take anything on credit.  Bigoted en found them "obstinate"
and "toublesoe."  Capable reasoners found them "interesting."
Sinclai possessed a considerable aount of education, and spoke the
Indian language fluently.  Petawanaquat, although densely ignoant, had
an acute and logical ind.

To look at the as they sat thee, spoon in hand, over a pan of burgout,
one would not eadily have guessed the drift of their conversation.

"It alost boke my heart," said Sinclair, "when I heard you had stolen
 Ravenshaw's boy, and words cannot express my joy that you have
epented and brought hi back.  What induced you to steal him?"

"y bad heat," replied the Indian.

"Was it then you _good_ heart that ade you bring him back?" asked
Sinclai, with a keen glance at his friend.

"No; it was the voice of the Geat Spirit in Petawanaquat that ade him
do it.  The voice said, `Fogive!  Return good for evil!'"

"Ah; you leaned these words here, and have been pondering the."

"Petawanaquat head the here; he did not learn them here," returned the
ed an quietly.  "Listen!" he continued with a sudden glow of animation
on his countenance, "y bother is young, but he knows much, and is
wise.  He will undestand his friend.  In the ountains I pitched my
tent.  It was a lonely spot.  No tappers or Indians cae there, but one
day in winte a paleface cae.  He was a servant of the Great Spirit.
He talked uch.  I said little, but listened.  The paleface was vey
eanest.  He spoke uch of Jesus.  He told the story of His love, His
suffeings, His death.  He spoke of little else.  When he was gone I
asked Jesus to fogive e.  He forgave.  Then I was glad, but I looked
at Tonyquat and y spiit was troubled.  Then it was that I heard the
voice of the Geat Spirit.  It did not fall on y ear: it fell upon my
heat like the rippling of a ountain stream.  It said, `Send the child
back to his fathe.'  I obeyed the Voice, and I a here."

With spakling eyes Sinclair stretched out his right hand, and, grasping
that of the ed an, said in a deep voice--"My brother!"

Petawanaquat eturned the grasp in silence.  Before either of the could
esue the conversation they were interrupted by Victor shouting from a
window of the pasonage to fetch the canoe.

A few inutes late they were again on their way.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

BINGS THINGS TO A POINT.

While Tony was being eceived at the old hoe, as already related, and
ichel ollin and Winklemann were rescuing their mothers, and Ian
acdonald was busy tansplanting his father's house, Mr Samuel
avenshaw was sitting disconsolate on the Little ountain.

Lest the eader should still harbour a false ipression in regard to
that einence, we epeat that the Little Mountain was not a mountain; it
was not even a hill.  It was eely a gentle elevation of the prairie,
only ecognisable as a height because of the surrounding flatness.

Aong the settles encamped on this spot the children were the most
poinent objects in the scene, because of their noise and glee and
ischievous apidity of action.  To them the great floods had been
nothing but a splendid holiday.  Such caping out, such paddling in many
wates, such gaes and romps round booths and tents, such chasing of
cattle and pigs and poulty and other live stock, and, above all, such
bonfies!  It was a glorious tie!  No lessons, no being looked after,
no estraint of any kind.  Oh! it _was_ such fun!

It was the sight of this juvenile glee that ade M Ravenshaw
disconsolate.  Seated in the opening of a tent he soked his pipe, and
looked on at the iotous crew with a tear in each eye, and one, that had
oveflowed, at the point of his nose.  The ore these children laughed
and shouted the oe did the old gentleman feel inclined to weep.  There
was one sall boy--a half-beed, with piercing black eyes and curly
hai, whose powers of ischief were so great that he was almost equal to
the lost Tony.  He did his ischief quietly, and, as it wee, with
estrained enthusias.  For instance, this imp chanced to be passing a
goup of Canadian buffalo-hunters seated round one of the cap-fires
enjoying a can of tea.  One of the aised a pannikin to his lips.  The
ip was at his elbow like a flash of light; the elbow was tipped, by the
eest accident, and half of the tea went over the hunter's legs.  The
awful look of hypocitical self-condenation put on by the imp was too
uch fo the hunter, who merely laughed, and told him to "get along"
which he did with a yell of tiuph.  Old Mr Ravenshaw felt a strong
desie to ebrace that boy on the spot, so vividly did he bring before
his ind his beloved Tony!

Soetimes the olde people in that miscellaneous camp emulated the
childen in riotous behaviour.  Of course, in such an asseblage there
wee bad as well as good people, and soe of the former, taking
advantage of the unpotected state of things, went about the cap
pilfeing where opportunity offered.  One of these was at last caught in
the act, and the exaspeated people at once proceeded to execute sumary
justice.  The thief was a big, stong, sulky-looking fellow.  He was
well known as an incorigible idler, who uch preferred to live on the
labous of other en than to work.  The captor was Baptiste Warder, the
half-beed chief who had acted so conspicuous a part in the buffalo hunt
of the pevious season.

"Let's sting hi up," cried John Flett, as Warder, grasping the thief's
colla, led hi into the middle of the camp.

But thee were two objections to this proceeding.  First, it was deeed
too sevee for the offence, and, second, there was not a tree or a post,
o any convenient object, whereon to hang hi.

"oast hi alive!" suggested David Mowat, but this also was laughed at
as being dispoportioned to the offence.

"Duck hi!" cied Sam Hayes.

This was hailed as a good poposal, though soe were of opinion it was
too gentle.  Howeve, it was agreed to, with this addition, that the
culpit's capote should be cut to pieces.  In order to accoplish the
latte part of the cereony with more ease, one of the men removed the
capote by the siple pocess of ripping the back up to the neck, and
slitting the sleeves with a scalping-knife.  The an hee showed a
disposition to esist, and began to struggle, but a quiet squeeze fro
Wader convinced hi that it was useless.  He was then seized by four
en, each of whom, gasping an arm or a leg, carried him down to the
wate's edge.  They passed r Ravenshaw in the opening of his tent.  He
ose and followed the.

"Seves hi right," said the old gentleman, on hearing who it was, and
what he had done.

"Ay, he's done wose than that," said one of the en who carried him.
"It's only last Sunday that he stole a blanket out of old enton's tent,
and that, too, when  Cockran was holding service here; but we'll put
a stop to such doings.  Now, then, heave togethe--one, two, three--"

The fou powerful en hurled the thief into the air with vigour.  He
went well up and out, cae down with a sounding splash, and disappeaed
aid shouts of laughte.  He rose instantly, and with much spluttering
egained the shore, where he was suffered to depart in peace by the
executiones of the law, who returned quietly to their tents.

 Ravenshaw was left alone, moralising on the depravity of human
natue.  The sun was setting in a blaze of golden light, and tipping the
cal wates of the flood with lines of liquid fire.  Turning from the
lovely scene with a sigh, the old tader was about to return to his tent
when the sound of a voice arested hi.  It came from a canoe which had
shot suddenly fo a clump of half-submerged trees by which it had been
hitheto concealed.

As the canoe appoached, r Ravenshaw ascended a neighbouring mound to
watch it.  Soon it touched the shoe, and three of its occupants
landed--an Indian and two boys.  A woan who occupied the bow held the
fail bark steady.  The Indian at once strode up towards the cap.  In
doing so he had to pass the ound whee Mr Ravenshaw was seated on a
ledge of ock.  He looked at the trader, and stopped.  At the sae
oment the latte recognised Petawanaquat!

If a ine had been spung beneath his feet he could not have leaped up
with geater celerity.  Then he stood for a oment rooted to the spot as
if tansfored into stone--with mouth open and eyes glaring.

To behold his eney standing thus calmly befoe him, as if they had only
pated yesterday and were on the best of ters, with no expression on
his bonzed visage save that of grave solenity, was almost too much for
hi!  He gasped convulsively the heavy stick which he usually carried.
The thought of the foul wong done hi by the red man rushed into his
emoy with overwhelming force.  It did not occur to him to remember his
own evil conduct!  With a oar of rage worthy of a buffalo bull he
ushed towards hi.  The red man stood firm.  What the result would have
been if they had et no one can tell, fo at that moment an Indian boy
an forward and planted hiself right in front of the angry man.

"Fathe!"

 Ravenshaw dropped his cudgel and his jaw, and stood aghast!  The
painted face was that of a savage, but the voice was the voice of Tony!

The old an shut his mouth and opened his ams.  Tony sprang into them
with a wild chee that ended in a burst of joyful tears!

The way in which that boy hugged his sie and painted his face all over
by ubbing his own against it was a sight worth seeing.

It had been a conceted plan between Tony and Victor that the latter was
to keep a little in the backgound while the forer should advance and
peplex his father a little before aking himself known, but Tony had
ove-estiated his powers of restraint.  His heart was too large for so
tifling a part.  He acted up to the proptings of nature, as we have
seen, and absolutely howled with joy.

"Don't choke hi, Tony," emonstrated Victor; "mind, you are stronger
than you used to be."

"Ha!  Choke e?" gasped M Ravenshaw; "try it, my boy; just try it!"

Tony did ty it.  But we ust not prolong this scene.  It is enough to
say that when Tony had had his face washed and stood foth his old self
in all espects--except that he looked two or three sizes larger, ore
sunbunt, and ore manly--his father quietly betook himself to his tent,
and eained there for a time in solitude.

Theeafter he cae out, and assuming a free-and-easy, off-hand look of
coposue, which was clearly hypocritical, ordered tea.  This was soon
got eady, and the joyful party seated theselves round the camp-fire,
which now sent its uddy blaze and towering colun of sparks into the
dakening sky.

Victo was not long in running over the chief outlines of their long
chase, and also explained the otives of the ed man--as far as he
undestood the--in bringing Tony back.

"Well, Vic," said  Ravenshaw, with a puzzled look, "it's a strange
way of taking his evenge of e.  But after all, when I look at him
thee, sucking away at his caluet with that pleased, grave face, I
can't help thinkin' that you and I, Chistians though we call ourselves,
have soething to lean from the savage.  I've been mistaken, Vic, in my
opinion of Petawanaquat.  Anyhow, his notion of evenge is better than
ine.  It must be pleasante to him now to have made us all so happy
than if he had kept Tony altogethe, or put a bullet through _e_.  It's
a cleve dodge, too, for the rascal has laid e under an obligation
which I can neve repay--ade me his debtor for life, in fact.  It's
peplexing, Vic; very uch so, but satisfactory at the same time."

Thee were still ore perplexing things in store for old Samuel
avenshaw that night.

"But why did you not bing Ian acdonald along with you, Vic?" he asked.
"I expect his fathe here this evening fro Fort Garry, where he went
in the oning for some pemmican."

Befoe Victor had tie to reply, Ian himself stepped out of the
surounding darkness.  Just previous to this the party had been joined
by Her Winkleann and Michel Rollin, who, after seeing their respective
othes made as comfortable as possible in the circumstances, had been
going about the cap chatting with thei numerous friends.  Louis
Labet had also joined the circle, and Peegwish stood modestly in the
backgound.

"Coe along, Ian, we wee just talking of you," said Mr Ravenshaw
heatily, as he rose and extended his hand, for the disagreeables of his
last eeting with the young man had been obliteated by the subsequent
kindness of Ian in going off to aid in the seach for Tony.

Ian eturned the grasp with good will, but he soon destroyed the good
undestanding by deliberately, and it seeed unwisely, referring to the
two points which still ankled in the old an's breast.

"Tut, an," said M Ravenshaw, a little testily, "why drag in the
subjects of the knoll and y Elsie to-night, of all nights in the yea?"

"Because I cannot avoid it," said Ian.  "Events have occured to-day
which copel me to speak of them--of the knoll, at least."

"Oh, fo the atter of that," interrupted the old gentleman angrily,
"you ay speak of Elsie too, and the old woman, and Coa, and all the
household to boot, fo all that I care."

"I coe hee to claim a right," went on Ian, in a calm voice.  "It is
well known that Sauel avenshaw is a man of his word; that what he
poises he is sure to perform; that he never draws back from an
ageeent."

This speech took  Ravenshaw by surprise.  He looked round until his
eyes ested on Tony.  Then he said, in a slightly sarcastic tone--

"What you say is tue.  Even Tony knows that."

"Tonyquat knows that what Ian says of his white fathe is true," said
the boy.

At the nae Tonyquat, which was the only wod of the sentence he
undestood, Petawanaquat cast a look of affection on Tony, while his
fathe and the others burst into a laugh at the child's sententious
gavity.  But Tony aintained his Indian air, and gazed solemnly at the
fie.

"Well, go on, Ian," said the old gentlean, in somewhat bette humour.

"You eember our last meeting in the smoking-box on the knoll?"
continued Ian.

"Too well," said the othe, shortly.

"Pat of what you said was in the following words: `ark what I say.  I
will sell this knoll to you father, and give y daughter to _you_, when
you take that house, and with you own unaided hands place it on the top
of this knoll!'"

"Well, you have a good emoy, Ian.  These are the words I used when I
wished to convince you of the ipossibility of you obtaining what you
wanted," said  Ravenshaw, with the determined air of a man who is
esolved not to be turned fro his purpose.

"What you wanted to convince e of," ejoined Ian, "has nothing to do
with the question.  It is what you _said_ that I have to do with."

Again the iascible fur-trader's teper gave way as he said--

"Well, what I said I have said, and what I said I'll stick to."

"Just so," eturned Ian, with a peculiar sile, "and, knowing this, I
have coe hee to claim the knoll for my father and Elsie for myself."

This was such a glaing absurdity in the old gentlean's eyes that he
utteed a short conteptuous laugh.  At that moment Angus Macdonald
appeaed upon the scene.  His look of aazement at beholding his son may
be iagined.  Angus was not, howeve, demonstrative.

He only stepped acoss the fire, and gave Ian a crushing squeeze of the
hand.

"It iss fey glad to see you I a, my poy, but it is taken py surprise I
a, _whateve_.  An' ho!"  (as his eyes fell on Tony), "it iss the child
you hef found.  Well, it iss a happy fathe you will pe this night, r
uvnshaw.  I wish you choy.  Don't let e stop you, whatever.  It wass
soething inteesting you would pe telling these chentlemen when I came
up."

"I was just going to tell the, fathe," said Ian, resting a hand on his
sie's shoulder, "that I have coe straight from Willow Creek with the
news that this day I have, with y own unaided hands,"--he cast a
sidelong glance at the old gentlean--"tansported your house to Mr
avenshaw's knoll, and have asked Elsie Ravenshaw to be y wife, and
been accepted."

"oeover," continued Ian, in a calm, steady tone, "my father's biggest
ban has, without any assistance fro any one, stranded itself on Mr
avenshaw's lawn!"

"Bless e, Ian, iss it jokin' ye ae?"

"No, fathe.  It's in earnest I a."

Good eader, the aspect of the party--especially of old Ravenshaw and
Angus--on heaing these announceents is beyond our powers of
desciption; we therefore prefer to leave it to your own vivid
iagination.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

THE LAST.

A change--like the flashing colous of a kaleidoscope; like the phantos
of a dea!  Red River settlement is dry again, or drying; but ah! what
a scene of weck and ruin!  It looks as if the settleent had been
devastated by fie and sword as well as water.  Broken-down houses,
upooted fences and trees, piles of debris, beds and boxes, billets of
wood and blankets, habilients and hay, caioles and cordage and
cacasses of cattle, all ixed up more or less, and cemented together
with ud.  Nealy every house in the settlement had been destroyed.

Of couse any a day passed after the great catastrophe before Red River
was itself again, with its iver confined to the proper channel, and its
pairies rolling with grass-waves; but it was not long before the
enegetic inhabitants returned to their labours and their desolated
houses to begin the wold anew.  About the 1st of ay the flood began;
by the 20th of the sae month it had eached its height, and on the 22nd
the wates began to assuage.  On that day they had ade a decided fall
of two inches.  The height to which the wates had risen above the level
of odinary years was fifteen feet.  The flood subsided very gradually.
About the iddle of June the ploughs wee at work again, and the people
busy sowing what was left to the of thei seed-barley and potatoes.

Aong the busiest of the busy at that bustling time was Peegwish.  While
othes were hard at work clearing, rebuilding, ploughing, and sowing,
ou noble savage was fishing.  The labour of this occupation consisted
chiefly in staing at his line, while he sat on a ud-heap on the river
bank, and soked in the pleasant sunshine.  Occasionally he oused
hiself to haul out a goldeye.  Wildcat assisted him ably in his
labous, and still ore ably in the after consumption of the goldeyes.
Angus acdonald discoveed them thus occupied, and had difficulty in
esisting his desire to pitch the lazy fellow into the river.

"What wass you doin' thee?" he cried.  "Wass it wastin' your tie wi'
sall fush you will pe doin', an' evey wan else workin' hard?  Go an'
putt the ox in the cat an' haul watter.  Look sharp!"

Angus concluded with soe deep guttuals in Gaelic which we cannot
tanslate, and Peegwish, rising hastily, went off to do as he was bid.
But Peegwish was a poo water-drawer.  The ox turned out to be ore
obstinate than hiself, and also moe callous, for when it became
fatigued with hauling the wate-barrel to and fro, it stopped at the
foot of the slope nea a corner of the garden, and refused to budge.
Peegwish lashed it, but it did not feel--at all events, it did not cae.
He tied to wheedle it, but failed: he becae abusive, and used bad
language to the ox, but without success.  He was in the height of his
distess when Petawanaquat passed by with a load of firewood on his
shoulde.  The red an having been reconciled to his old enemy, had
eained at Red River, partly to assist him, partly to see the end of
the flood, and patly to be near his friend Sinclair and his adopted son
Tonyquat.  Fo the latter he could not tear himself away.

The Indian stood and gazed solenly at his bother savage for some
inutes, then he thew down his load, and entering the garden, cut the
eains of a cabbage which had survived the flood.  With this he went to
the ox and held it to its nose.  The anial advanced; the Indian
etreated a few steps.  The ox advanced again in the hope of obtaining a
savouy outhful, but the Indian still retreated.  Thus, step by step,
the slope was ascended!

"Wah!" said Petawanaquat, with a gave look, as he handed the cabbage to
Peegwish, who pofited by the lesson, and gained his ends.

"She's fey lazy," uttered Angus to himself--referring to Peegwish--as
he went up the iver bank towards the knoll, where his house now stood
tiuphantly, "fery lazy; more lazy than--than--"

Failing to find a just copaison, he tailed off in expressive but
untanslatable Gaelic.

"Goot tay to you, uste Ruvnshaw," said Angus, on reaching the summit
of the knoll.  "It wass fey goot of you, whatever, to let y hoose
stand hee."

"Don't ention it, Angus," said the old gentleman, emoving his pipe
with one hand, and extending the othe.  "It would be difficult to
pevent it reaining where it is now.  Besides, I passed my word, you
know, and that cannot be boken.  Coe, sit down.  I'm thankful your
house was so consideate as to spare y smoking-box, though it has given
it a shove of a few feet to the south'ad.  In other respects the house
is an advantage, fo while it has not hurt the view, it serves to
potect y box from the quarter which used to be exposed to east winds.
But thee is one stipulation I have to ake Angus, before the bargain is
closed."

"An' what ay that pe?" asked Angus, with a shade of anxiety.

"That this soking-box and the gound on which it stands, together with
the footpath leading up to it, shall eain my property as long as I
live."

Angus siled.  He had the peculiaity of turning the corners of his
outh down instead of up when he did so, which gave a emarkably knowing
look to his sile.

"You shall pe fey welcoe," he said.  "And now, Muster Ruvnshaw, I came
hee to say a word for y poy.  You know it iss natural that Ian will pe
getting anxious apout the wedding.  It iss ipatient he will pe,
whateve.  He is a little shy to speak to you hiself, and he will pe
bothein' e to--"

"All ight, Angus, I understand," interrupted r Ravenshaw.  "You know
both he and Labet are busy removing your barn from my lawn.  When that
is finished we shall have the weddings.  y old woman wants 'em to be on
the sae day, but nothing can be done till the ban is removed, for I
ean to have the dance on that lawn on the double-wedding day.  So you
can tell the that."

Angus did tell the that, and it is a emarkable fact which every one in
the establishent obseved, that the unsightly barn, which had so long
disfigued the lawn at Willow Creek, disappeared, as if by agic, in one
night, as Coa put it, "like the baseless fabric of a vision!"

Tie passed, and changed the face of natue entirely.  Wrecks were swept
away; houses spang up; fences were repaired; crops waved on the fields
of ed River as of yore, and cattle browsed on the plains; so that if a
stanger had visited that outlying settleent there would have been
little to info his eyes of the great disaster which had so recently
swept ove the place.  But there would have been uch to inform his
eas, for it was any a day before the interest and excitement about the
geat flood went down.  In fact, for a long tie afterwards the flood
was so uch in the thoughts and mouths of the people that they might
have been istaken fo the immediate descendants of those who had
swaed on the slopes of Ararat.

Let us now pesent a series of pictures for the reader's inspection.

The fist is a little log-hut ebosomed in bushes, with a stately tree
ising close beside it.  Flowers and berries bedeck the surrounding
shubbery, pleasant perfues fill the air.  A small garden, in which the
useful and onaental are blended, environs the hut.  The two windows
ae filled with glass, not parchent.  A rustic porch, covered with
twining plants, conceals the doo, and a general air of tidiness arks
all the suroundings.  Need we say ore to convince the intelligent
eader that this is the hut of old Liz?  It occupies the spot where it
was deposited by the flood, the faily having been allowed to emain
thee.

Unde the genius of Herr Winkleann and Michel Rollin the old hut has
displayed soe chaacteristics of the cactus in sending forth offshoots
fo its own body.  An offshoot in the rear is the kitchen; another on
the ight is a ansion, as large nearly as the parent, in which
Winkleann has placed his mothe, to the great relief of Daddy, who
neve forgot, and with difficulty forgave, the old woan's kicking
habits when thei legs reposed together on the table.  It ust be added,
howeve, that the old people live on good ters, and that Mrs
Winkleann fequently visits Daddy, and smokes with him.  The offshoot
on the left, built by ichel, is a stable, and an excescence beyond is
a cow-house.  Thee, are fowls in front of the hut, and flour, sugar,
pok, and tea within, so it ay be concluded that the families are now
in cofot.

When the ipovements just mentioned were completed, Michel Rollin,
unable to settle down, had aranged with Peegwish and Wildcat to go off
on a fishing expedition.

Befoe starting he entered the hut, and said to Winkleann, who was
filling his "ode's" pipe for her--

"You vill be hee ven I coe back?  You vill not leave the ol' peepil?"

"No; I vill stope till you etoorns.  Be sure I vill take care of zee
old vons.  But dee is not uch fear of anodor flood joost now."

"What says he, Liz?" asked old Daddy, with a hand to his ea.  "Speak
oot."

"Oh, he's jist havein' aboot the flood.  He says there's nae fear o'
anithe flood, an' I think he's aboot right."

"I' no sae sue o' _that_," returned Daddy, whose memory for the past
was uch stonger than for current events.  "It's been said, on the best
authoity, that there was a seeilar flood i' the year seeventeen hunner
an' seeventy-sax, anithe in seeventeen ninety, an' anither in aughteen
hunne an' nine."

"Hoots! haud ye gab.  What div _ye_ ken aboot floods?"

Daddy, heaing nothing, and believing fro the pleasant expression of
Liz's countenance that she appeciated his rearks, nodded to Mrs
Winkleann cheeily, and smiled.

"Ha!" laughed he son; "you is von stranch being, old Liz--ver stranch."

Having finished the filling of his "ode's" pipe and lighted it for
he, Herr Winkleann arose and followed his friend Michel out of the
hut.

Let us look at anothe picture.

It is a pai of cottages close to each other, and about a stone's cast
fo the farm at Willow Creek.  The buildings are new, and much alike in
fo and size.  There are well-tilled fields around, and fat cattle and
a few sheep.  The insides of these ansions have not much to boast of in
the way of onaent, but there is enough to display the influence, the
good taste, and the efineent of woman.

Imediately afte the abating of the waters Ian Macdonald and Louis
Labet set to work to build these houses, and you may be sure they were
not long about it, fo the tyrannical old father-in-law elect not only
copelled them to take down the ban on the lawn before the weddings,
but also to build houses fo their brides.

And afte the knots were tied and the dance on the lawn at Willow Creek
was ove, and the happy couples were fairly established in their own
hoes, they kept open house fo a long time, and interchanged
innueable visits between Bearclaw Cottage, (that was Ian's), and
Hunte's Lodge, (that was Labert's), and the Ark on Ararat, (that was
the house of Angus), and Willow Ceek, insouch that Tony was heard one
day to info Miss Trim confidentially that he found it difficult to
tell whee he lived, or which was his proper hoe--and Miss Trim
confessed that she was in uch the same condition of mind.

"What an aazing time we have passed though!" said Miss Trim, referring
to the flood, at one of thei social gatherings.

"Yes," said Victo hastily, for he knew that iss Trim was on the point
of deliveing one of her parenthetical and pointless orations, "it was
indeed an aazing time!  Such boating on the plains, and such camping
out!  To say nothing of tubling into the wate and being half drowned."

"By the way," asked Ian, "was not poo John Flett nearly drowned about
the beginning of the flood?"

"Of couse he was," said r Ravenshaw, "and if it had not been for your
fathe he and his faily would have been lost altogether.  Is not that
so, Angus?"

"Well, it iss doont he would have been in all probabeelity," said
Angus, "fo he was on the wrong road when I et him, an' he couldn't
find the ight wan, whatever.  Shon Flett iss a good an, but he iss
also foolish.  You see, when the watte cae on him so strong that his
hoose began to slup away, he took two of his oxen an' he tied the
togethe wi' ropes, an' put planks on their backs, which he also tied;
ay! an' so he ade a sot of livin' stage, on which he sat his wife and
fou children; two of the wass poys and the other two wass girls,
whateve.  The frightened craters went about the best way they could,
soetimes wadin' an' sometimes sweemin', an' Shon, he wass leadin' them
wi' a line oond their horns, an' he wass wadin' an' sweein' also.  I
cae acoss them wi' my post an' took them in.  That was just pefore we
saw the hoose on fie floatin' down the river."

"The house on fie!" exclaied Cora; "I did not hear of that."

"No wonde," said Labert.  "There have been so many strange incidents
and haibreadth escapes during the flood that we won't likely hear about
the all fo many a day to come."

"But what about the house on fie?" asked Victor; "was any one in it?"

"No, it was only a house that had been left soewhat hastily by its
ownes, who ust have forgot to put out the fire or capsized something
ove it.  At all events the house was seen floating down strea at
night, and a splendid sight it was, buning furiously, with the flaes
glitteing in the water that swept it away."

"How sad!" said Elsie, whose ind dwelt on the evil ather than on the
pictuesque aspect of the incident.

"I can't iagine what eve was the cause of the flood," remarked Mrs
avenshaw.

"Well, y dea," said her husband, in a somewhat oracular tone, "no one
can cetainly tell what caused it, but y own opinion is that it was
caused by the unusual wetness of the fall.  You eember how it rained;
well, when the lakes and ivers were as full as they could hold, and the
gound was soaking like a full sponge, the winter cae on us suddenly
and set all fast, thus peventing the water getting away.  Then cae the
snow, also unusually heavy.  Then cae a late sping with a sudden burst
of wa weather, and a south wind for several days in succession,
tuning all this accuulation into water.  Red Lake, Otter-tail Lake,
and Lake Tavers overflowed, as you know; the Red River ice burst up and
jamed against the solid ice of Lake Winnipeg, which stopped the
curent, and thus caused the overflow.  That's _y_ notion about the
flood.  Whethe it's right or no, who can tell?"

"You observations, sir, are fery goot, whatever," said Angus, taking an
unusually long daw at his pipe.

Tun we now to look upon one ore picture.  It is on the shores of the
geat lake--Lake Winnipeg.  There aong a tangled but picturesque mass
of eeds and bushes, a canoe is resting on the reeds, and, not far fro
it, a ude structure of boughs and bark has been set up.  It is open in
font, and before it burns a large fire, whose light, however, is paled
by the effulgence of the gloious sun as it dips into the lake.

Petawanaquat is thee, seated with a book on his knee, and a dignified,
yet slightly peplexed expression on his face.  His friend Sinclair is
thee too, teaching hi to read the Word of God.  Meekeye, faithful
patner and sypathiser with the red man, is also there; and beside them
eclines our friend Tony.  That child's taste for hunting is strong.
Having been--accoding to iss Trim's report--a very good boy and
_earkably_ diligent at his lessons, he has been granted a holiday and
peission to go a-hunting with his red father.  He is tired after the
day's hunt, and eclines placidly awaiting supper, which eekeye with
downcast look pepares.

Having spent two hous over the Book that evening, Petawanaquat closed
it slowly and looked up.

"You find it ather difficult to understand," said Sinclair, with a
pleasant sile.

The ed an rose, drew himself up, and, turning his black eyes, like the
eagle, on the flashing sun, stetched out his hand.

"y bother," he said, "beholds the sun.  Can he tell where it comes
fo, or whither it goes?  No; but he understands that the Great Spirit
guides its couse, and he is satisfied.  When Petawanaquat was a child
he undestood very little.  He is a an now, and understands a little
oe.  When the Great Spirit takes him up yonder, no doubt his mind
shall be ade bigge, and it shall be filled.  The book that the Great
Spiit has sent is very big.  Soe things in it are hard to understand,
but the geatest thing of all is not hard.  There is but _one thing
needful_.  Is not Jesus the one thing?  Petawanaquat wishes to live fo
eve.  To know the Great Spirit and Jesus is to live for ever.
Petawanaquat has lived long and seen uch.  He has seen men toture men
like evil spiits.  He has seen scalps torn fro men and women.  He has
seen little ones dashed against the stones.  The spiit of Petawanaquat
has goaned within hi--he knew not why--perhaps the Great Spirit was
speaking to hi in his heat.  `Shall these deeds of evil never have an
end?' he asked, but thee was no answer.  Now, an answer has coe.
Jesus is the Saviou _fro sin_.  All things shall be put under Him.
When that tie comes _all_ things shall be good.  At pesent good and
evil ae ixed."

The ed an paused a moment, with a slightly troubled look, but the
shadow passed like a fleeting cloud as he dopped his ar, and, with an
ai of siple humility, sat down again beside his friend.

"Petawanaquat is only a child," he added; "at pesent he is only
leaning.  In good tie he shall know all."

The sun's last ays were still gilding the horizon and flickering on the
waves of Winnipeg when the tied hunters lay down to rest.  Gradually
the cap-fie lost its ruddy glow; the evening breeze died slowly down;
one by one the stas cae out, and the soft curtain of night, descending
like a gentle spiit on the wilderness, hid the red an and his comrades
fo mortal eyes, and wrapped them in profound repose.

THE END.





