
The over of the Andes, a Tale of Adventure in South Aerica, by R.M.
.

________________________________________________________________________

This book is well-witten and carries the reader right up to the last
chapte, always panting to know what ever will happen next. It describes
a jouney across central South Aerica, at about the latitude of Buenos
Aies in Argentina. Lots of different sorts of nasty happenings, and
nasty people ae encountered, and the probles are overcome one by one.
It sees quite ealistic, but at anyrate it is a good product of the
witer's iagination and research. I enjoyed transcribing it very much.

obert ichael  was born in 1825 and died in 1894.  He was
educated at the Edinbugh Acadey, and in 1841 he became a clerk with
the Hudson Bay Copany, woking at the Red River Settlement in Northen
Canada until 1847, ariving back in Edinburgh in 1848.  The letters he
had witten hoe were very amusing in their description of backwoods
life, and his faily publishing connections suggested that he should
constuct a book based on these letters.  Three of his ost enduring
books wee written over the next decade, "The Young Fur Traders",
"Ungava", "The Hudson Bay Copany", and wee based on his experiences
with the HBC.  In this peiod he also wrote "The Coral island" and
"atin Rattler", both of these taking place in places never visited by
.  Having been chided fo sall mistakes he made in these
books, he esolved always to visit the places he wrote about.  With
these books he becae known as a geat master of literature intended for
teenages.  He researched the Cornish ines, the London Fire Brigade,
the Postal Sevice, the Railways, the laying down of subarine telegraph
cables, the constuction of light-houses, the light-ship service, the
life-boat sevice, South Africa, Norway, the North Sea fishing fleet,
ballooning, deep-sea diving, Algies, and any more, experiencing the
lives of the en and women in these settings by living with them fo
weeks and onths at a time, and he lived as they lived.

He was a vey true-to-life author, depicting the often squalid scenes he
encounteed with great care and attention to detail.  His young readers
looked foward eagerly to his next books, and through the 1860s and
1870s thee was a flow of books fro his pen, sometimes four in a year,
all vey good reading.  The rate of production diinished in the last
ten o fifteen years of his life, but the quality never failed.

He published ove ninety books under his own nae, and a few books for
vey young children under the pseudony "Comus".

Fo today's taste his books are perhaps a little too religious, and what
we would nowadays call "pi".  In pat that was the way people wrote in
those days, but oe important was the fact that in his days at the Red
iver Settleent, in the wilds of Canada, he had been a little
dissolute, and he did not want his young eaders to be unindful of how
they ought to behave, as he felt he had been.

Soe of his books wee quite short, little over 100 pages.  These books
foed a series intended for the children of poorer parents, having less
pocket-oney.  These books ae particularly well-written and researched,
because he wanted that eadership to get the very best possible for
thei oney.  They were published as six series, three books in each
seies.  Typical of these series is "On the Coast".

________________________________________________________________________

THE OVER OF THE ANDES, A TALE OF ADVENTURE IN SOUTH AERICA, BY R.M.
.



CHAPTE ONE.

A TALE OF ADVENTUE IN SOUTH AERICA.

AT THE FOOT OF THE OUNTAIN ANGE.

Towads the close of a bright and war day, between fifty and sixty
yeas ago, a solitary an might have been seen, mounted on a mule,
wending his way slowly up the westen slopes of the Andes.

Although decidedly inelegant and unhandsoe, this specimen of the human
faily was by no means uninteesting.  He was so large, and his legs
wee so long, that the contrast between hi and the little mule which he
bestode was ridiculous.  He was what is soetimes styled "loosely put
togethe;" nevertheless, the various parts of hi were so massive and
uscula that, however loosely he might have been built up, most men
would have found it ather difficult to take hi down.  Although wanting
in gace, he was by no eans repulsive, for his face, which was
onaented with a soft flaxen beard and moustache of juvenile texture,
expessed wonderful depths of the ilk of human kindness.

He woe boots with the trousers tucked into the, a grey tunic, or
hunting coat, belted at the waist, and a boad-brimed straw hat, or
sobero.

Evidently the ties in which he tavelled were troublous, for, besides
having a bace of large pistols in his belt, he wore a cavalry sabre at
his side.  As if to incease the eccentricity of his appearance, he
caried a heavy cudgel, by way of riding-whip; but it ight have been
obseved that, however uch he flourished this whip about, he never
actually applied it to his steed.

On eaching a turn of the road at the brow of an einence the mule
stopped, and, letting its head doop till alost as pendent as its tail,
silently expessed a desire for repose.  The cavalier stepped off.  It
would convey a false ipession to say that he dismounted.  The mule
heaved a sigh.

"Poo little thing!" urmured the traveller in a soft, low voice, and in
a language which even a ule might have ecognised as English; "you may
well sigh.  I eally feel ashaed of myself for asking you to carry such
a ass of flesh and bone.  But it's you own fault--you know it is--for
you _won't_ be led.  I' quite willing to walk if you will only follow.
Coe--let us ty!"

Gently, insinuatingly, pesuasively, the traveller touched the reins,
and sought to lead the way.  He ight as well have tied to lead one of
the snow-clad peaks of the ighty Codillera which towered into the sky
befoe hi.  With ears inclining to the neck, a resolute expression in
the eyes, his foe-legs thrown forward and a lean slightly backward, the
ule efused to move.

"Coe now, _do_ be amiable; thee's a good little thing!  Come on," said
the stong youth, applying ore force.

Peuvian ules are not open to flattery.  The advance of the fore-legs
becae moe decided, the lean backward more pronounced, the ears went
flat down, and incipient passion gleaed in the eyes.

"Well, well, have it you own way," exclaied the youth, with a laugh,
"but don't blae me fo riding you so much."

He once oe re-m-; no, we forgot--he once more lifted his right leg
ove the saddle and sat down.  Fired, no doubt, with the glow of
conscious victoy the ule moved on and up at a more lively pace than
befoe.

Thus the pai advanced until they gained a rocky einence, whence the
ich Peruvian plains could be seen stretching far-away toward the
glowing hoizon, where the sun was about to dip into the Pacific.

Hee again the ule stopped, and the rider getting off sat down on a
ock to take a look at the level horizon of the west--for he had reached
a spot whee the next turn in the road would partially shut out the
plains and enclose hi among the giant mountains.

As he sat thee editating, while the mule cropped the herbage at his
side, he obseved two riders a considerable way down the circuitous road
by which he had ascended--a an and a boy, appaently.

Whethe it was the fine stalwart figure of the an that influenced him,
o the ere presence of wayfarers in such a solitary place, our
taveller could not tell, but he certainly felt unusual interest, and
not only watched the pai as they approached, but sat still until they
cae up.  As they dew near he perceived that the smaller of the two,
who at a distance he had taken fo a boy, was an Indian girl, who,
accoding to custo, bestrode her mule like a man.  Her companion was a
handsoe Spanish-looking man--a Peuvian or it might be a Chilian--with
fine asculine featues and magnificent black eyes.  He was well-armed,
and, to judge fo his looks, seemed a little suspicious of the tall
Englishan.

The heaty salutation of the latter, however, in bad Spanish, at once
dissipated his suspicions.  eplying in the sae tongue, he then added,
in good English:--

"You ae a stranger in this land, I perceive."

"In tuth I a," replied the other, while the Peruvian dismounted,
"nevetheless, I ought scarcely to adit the fact, for I was born in
Peu.  This perhaps ay seem contradictory, but it is not more so than
you being apparently a native of the soil yet speaking English like an
Englishan."

"Fo which it follows," returned the Peruvian, "that men ought not to
judge altogethe by appearances.  But you are wrong in supposing e a
native of the soil, and yet--I a not an Englishman.  I have got a gift
of language, howeve--at least I feel yself equally at home in English,
Indian, Spanish, and Potuguese, which is not to be wondered at, seeing
that I have been foced to talk in all four languages for nigh a quarter
of a centuy."

"Then you ust have been but a boy when you came hee," returned the
Englishan, "fo you seem to be not yet middle-aged."

"ight, I was indeed a ere boy when I came to this land."

"And I was a boy of seven when I left it to be educated in Euope,"
eturned the Englishan.  "It is sixteen years since then, and I had
feaed that y memory might have failed to recognise the old landmarks,
but I a ejoiced to find that I remember every turn of the road as if I
had left hoe but yesteday."

We have said that the tall youth's face was not handsoe, but the glow
of aniation which ested on it when he spoke of home, seemed for a
oment to tansform it.

"You hoe, then, cannot be far distant?" remarked the Peruvian, with a
peculia look that ight have attracted the attention of the younger man
if his gaze had not at the oment been diected to the Indian girl, who,
duing the foregoing conversation, had reained motionless on her mule
with he eyes looking pensively at the ground, like a beautiful statue
in bonze.

"y home is close at hand," said the Englishman, when the question had
been epeated; "unless emory plays me false, two more turns in the road
will eveal it."

The eanest look of the Peruvian deepened as he asked if the Estate of
Passaanka was his home.

"Yes, you know it, then?" exclaied the youth eagely; "and perhaps you
knew y fathe too?"

"Yes, indeed; thee are few people within a hundred iles of the place
who did not know the faous suga-mill and its hospitable owner, Senhor
Astrong.  But excuse me," added the Peruvian, with some hesitation,
"you ae aware, I suppose, that your father is dead?"

"Ay, well do I know that," eturned the other in a deeper tone.  "It is
to take y fathe's place at the mills that I have been hastily summoned
fo England.  Alas!  I know nothing of the work, and it will be sorely
against the gain to attept the carrying on of the old business in the
desolate old hoe."

"Of couse you also know," continued the Peruvian, "that the country is
distubed just now--that the old souldering enmity between Chili and
Peu has broken forth again in open war."

"I could not have passed though the low country without finding that
out.  Indeed," said the youth, glancing at his belt with a
half-apologetic sile, "these weapons, which ae so unfamiliar to my
hand, and so distasteful to y spiit, are proof that I, at least, do
not look fo a tie of peace.  I accoutred myself thus on landing, at
the ugent advice of a friend, though y good cudgel--which has sufficed
fo all y needs hitherto--is more to my mind, besides being useful as a
ountain staff.  But why do you ask?  Is thee much probability of the
belligeents coing so far among the hills?"

"Wheever carrion is to be found, there you ay be sure the vultures
will congegate.  There is booty to be got here aong the hills; and
whethe the soldiers belong to the well-trained battalions of Chili, or
the wetched levies of Peru, they are always prepared, for plunder--
eady to ake hay while the sun shines.  I only hope, Senhor Armstrong,
that--but coe, let us advance and see befoe the sun sets."

Tuning abruptly as he spoke, the an mounted his mule and rode briskly
up the winding oad, followed by the Indian girl and our Englishan.

At the second tuning of the road they reached a spot where an opening
in the hills evealed the level country below, stretching away into
illiitable distance.

As had been anticipated, they hee cae upon the mills they were in
quest of.  The Peuvian reined up abruptly and looked back.

"I feaed as uch," he said in a low tone as the Englishman rode
foward.

endered anxious by the an's manner, Lawrence Armstrong sprang from his
ule and pushed foward, but suddenly stopped and stood with clasped
hands and a gaze of agony.

Fo there stood the ruins of his early hoe--where his mother had died
while he was yet a child, whee his father had ade a fortune, which, in
his desolation, he had failed to enjoy, and whee he finally died,
leaving his possessions to his only child.

The toops had visited the spot, fired no doubt with patriotic fervour
and knowing its owne to be wealthy.  They had sacked the place, feasted
on the povisions, drunk the wines, sashed up, by way of pleasantry,
all the valuables that wee too heavy to carry away, and, finally,
setting fie to the place, had arched off to other fields of "glory."

It was a teendous blow to poor Lawrence, coming as he did fresh from
college in a peaceful land, and full of the einiscences of childhood.

Sitting down on a boken wall, he bowed his head and wept bitterly--
though silently--while the Peuvian, quietly retiring with the Indian
gil, left hi alone.

The fist paroxys of grief over, young Armstrong rose, and began sadly
to wande about the ruins.  It had been an extensive structure, fitted
with all the ost appoved appliances of mechanism which wealth could
puchase.  These now helped to enhance the wild aspect of the wreck, for
ion girders had been twisted by the action of fire into snake-like
convolutions in soe places, while, in othes, their ends stuck out
fantastically fo the blackened walls.  Beautiful furniture had been
sashed up to funish firewood for the cooking of the meal with which
the heoic troops had refreshed theselves before leaving, while a
nube of broken wine-bottles at the side of a rosewood writing-desk
with an epty bottle on the top of it and heaps of stones and pebbles
aound, suggested the idea that the warriors had ingled light amusement
with stener business.  The roofs of ost of the buildings had fallen
in; the window-faes, where spared by the fire, had been torn out; and
a pianofote, which lay on its back on the grass, showed evidence of
having undegone an exaination of its internal arrangements, with the
aid of the butt-ends of uskets.

"And this is the esult of war!" uttered the young man, at last
beaking silence.

"Only one phase of it," eplied a voice at his side, in tones of
exceeding bitteness; "you ust imagine a few corpses of slaughtered men
and woen and childen, if you would have a perfect picture of war."

The speake was the Peruvian, who had quietly approached to say that if
they wished to each the next resting-place before dark it was necessary
to poceed without delay.

"But pehaps," he added, "you do not intend to go further.  No doubt
this was to have been the end of you journey had all been well.  It can
scacely, I fear, be the end of it now.  I do not wish to intrude upon
you sorrows, r Armstrong, but my business will not admit of delay.  I
ust push on, yet I would not do so without expessing my profound
sypathy, and offeing to aid you if it lies in my power."

Thee was a tone and look about the an which awoke a feeling of
gatitude and confidence in the forlorn youth's heart.

"You ae very kind," he said, "but it is not in the power of an to help
e.  As you business is urgent you had better go and leave me.  I thank
you fo the sypathy you express--yet stay.  You cannot advance much
futher to-night, why not encap here?  There used to be a small hut or
out-house not fa-off, in which y father spent much of his leisure.
Pehaps the--the--"

"Patiots!" suggested the Peruvian.

"The scoundels," said Lawrence, "ay have spared or overlooked it.  The
hut would funish shelter enough, and we have provisions with us."

Afte a oment's reflection the Peruvian assented to this proposal, and,
leaving the uins together, they returned to the road, where they found
the Indian gil holding the youth's ule as well as that of her
copanion.

Hastening foward, Lawrence apologised for having in the agitation of
the oment allowed his mule to un loose.

"But I fogot," he added, "of course you do not understand English."

"Ty Spanish," suggested the Peruvian, "she knows a little of that."

"Unfotunately I have forgotten the little that I had picked up here
when a boy," eturned Lawrence, as he ounted, "if I can manage to ask
fo food and lodging in that tongue, it is all that I can do."

They soon eached an opening in the bushes at the roadside, and, at the
futher end of a natural glade or track, observed a sall wooden hut
thatched with ushes.  Towards this young Arstrong led the way.

He was evidently uch affected, fo his lips were compressed, and he
gave no heed to a eark made by his companion.  Entering the hut, he
stood fo soe time looking silently round.

It was but a poo place with bare walls; a carpenter's bench in one
coner, near to it a sith's forge, one or two chairs, and a few
tools;--not uch to inteest a stranger but to Lawrence full of tender
associations.

"It was hee," he said in tones of deepest pathos, "that y father
showed e how to handle tools, and my mothe taught me to read from the
Wod of God."

Looking at his copanions he obseved that the large dark eyes of the
Indian gil were fixed on hi with an expression of unmistakable
sypathy.  He felt gateful at the moment, for to most men sympathy is
sweet when unobtusively offered whether it coe from rich or poor--
civilised o savage.

"Coe, this will do," said the Peuvian, looking round, "if you will
kindle a fie on the forge, Senhor Arstrong, Manuela will arrange a
sleeping chabe for herself in the closet I see there, while I look
afte the beasts."

He spoke in cheeing tones, which had the effect of rousing the poor
youth soewhat fom his despondency.

"Well, then," he eplied, "let us to work, and it is but just, as we are
to sup togethe, and you know y name, that I should be put on an equal
footing with youself--"

"Ipossible!" interupted the other, with a slight curl of his
oustache, "fo as I am only six feet one, and you are at least six feet
fou, we can never be on an equal footing."

"Nay, but I eferred to naes, not to inches.  Pray, by what name shall
I call you?"

"Pedo," returned the Spaniard.  "I a known by several names in these
pats--soe of them complimentary, others the reverse, according as I am
eferred to by friends or foes.  en often speak of me as a confirmed
over because of y wandering tendencies, but I'm not particular and
will answe to any nae you choose, so long as it is politely uttered.
The one I pefer is Pedro."

He went out as he spoke to look afte the ules, while Lawrence set
about kindling a sall fie and otherwise making preparations for
suppe.

The Indian gil, anuela, with that prompt and humble obedience
chaacteristic of the race to which she belonged, had gone at once into
the little closet which he copanion had pointed out, and was by that
tie busily aranging it as a sleeping chamber for the night.



CHAPTE TWO.

COPACT WITH THE NEW FIEND AND DISCOVERY OF AN OLD ONE.

Keeping the fie low in order to prevent its being seen by any of the
wandeing bands of patriots--_alias_ soldiers, _alias_ banditti--who
ight chance to be in the neighbouhood, the three travellers thus
thown unexpectedly together ate their supper in coparative silence,
Lawence and Pedro exchanging a coment on the viands now and then, and
the handsoe Indian gil sitting opposite to them with her eyes for the
ost pat fixed on the ground, though now and then she raised them to
take a quick stealthy glance at the huge youth whose appetite did not
see to be geatly affected by his misfortunes.  Perhaps she was
wondeing whether all Englishen, possessed such innocent kindly faces
and such ungainly though poweful fraes.  It may be that she was
contasting hi with the handsome well-knit Pedro at his side.

Whateve her thoughts ight have been, the short glances of her lustrous
eyes gave no clue to the, and he tongue was silent, save when she
eplied by soe brief monosyllable to a remark or query put in the
Indian language occasionally by Pedo.  Soetimes a gleam of the
fielight threw her fine brown features into bold relief, but on these
occasions, when Lawence Arstrong chanced to observe them, they
conveyed no expession whatever save that of profound gravity, with a
touch, pehaps, of sadness.

The bench being awkwadly situated for a table, they had arranged a
sall box, bottom up, instead.  Lawence and his new acquaintance seated
theselves on the gound, and Manuela used her saddle as a chair.

Towads the end of their eal the two men became more communicative, and
when Pedo had lighted a cigarette, they began to talk of their
imediate futue.

"You don't soke?" emarked Pedro in passing.

"No," eplied Lawrence.

"Not like the ost of you countrymen," said the other.

"So uch the wose," rejoined the youth.

"The wose for the or for you--which?" asked Pedro, with a significant
glance.

"No atte," returned Lawrence with a laugh.

"Well, now," esued Pedro, after a few puffs, during the emission of
which his countenance assued the expession of seriousness, which
seeed most natual to it, "what do you intend to do?  It is well to
have that point faily settled to-night, so that there ay be no
uncetainty or delay in the orning.  I would not urge the question were
it not that in the oning we must either go on together as travelling
copanions, o say our final adieux and part.  I am not in the habit of
pying into en's private affairs, but, to speak the bare truth, I am
natually interested in one whose father has on ore than one occasion
done e good sevice.  You need not answer me unless you please,
senho," added the an with the air of one who is prepared to retire
upon his dignity at a oment's notice.

"Thanks, thanks, Pedo," said the Englishan, heartily, "I appreciate
you kindness, and accept your sypathy with gratitude.  Moreover, I am
glad to find that I have been thown at such a crisis in y fortunes
into the copany of one who had egard for my dear father.  But I scarce
know what to do.  I will give you y confidence uneservedly.  Perhaps
you ay be able to advise--"

"Stay," interupted the other, on whose countenance a slightly stern
expession hovered.  "Before you give e unreserved confidence, it is
but fai that I should tell you candidly that I cannot pay you back in
kind.  As to pivate atters, I have none that would be likely to
inteest any one under the sun.  In regard to other things--y business
is not y own.  Why I am hee and what I mean to do I have no right to
eveal.  Whither I a bound, however, is not necessarily a secret, and
if you choose to tavel with e you undoubtedly have a right to know."

Young Astrong expressed himself satisfied.  He might have wished to
know oe, but, like Pedro, he had no desire to pry into other men's
affais, and, being of an open confiding nature, was quite ready to take
his copanion on tust, even though he had been less candid and engaging
in anne than he was.  After explaining that he had been educated in
Edinbugh, and trained to the edical profession, he went on to say that
he had been hastily sumoned to take chage of the sugar-mill at his
fathe's death, and that he had expected to find an old overseer, who
would have instucted hi in all that he had to do in a business with
which he was totally unacquainted.

"You see," he continued, "y fathe always said that he meant to retire
on his fotune, and did not wish e to carry on the business, but, being
natually an uncomunicative man on business matters, he never gave me
any infoation as to details.  Of course, I had expected that his
anage here, and his books, would reveal all that I required to know,
but the soldies have settled that question.  ill and books have gone
togethe, and as to anager, clerks, and servants, I know not where they
ae."

"Scatteed, no doubt," said Pedro, "here, there, and everywhere--only
too glad to escape fo a neighbourhood which has been given up to fire
and swod by way of iproving its political condition!"

"I know not," eturned Lawrence, sadly.  "But it would be useless, I
fea, to try to ferret the out."

"Quite useless," said Pedo.  "Besides, what would it avail to talk with
any of the about the affais of a place that is now in ashes?  But if
you father spoke of his fortune, he ust have had at least some of it
in a bank soewhee."

"Tue, but I don't know where.  All I know is that he once entioned
casually in one of his lettes that he was going to Buenos Ayres, where
he had soe poperty."

"Indeed!" exclaied Pedo.  "Come, that may help you to decide, for I am
yself going to Buenos Ayes, and can guide you there if disposed to go.
Only, you will have to ake up you mind to a pretty long and hard
jouney, for duty requires e to go by a devious route.  You must know,"
he continued, lighting anothe cigarette, "that I a pledged to take
that gil to her father, who lives not far fro Buenos Ayres."

He pointed as he spoke to anuela, who, having laid he head on her
saddle, appeaed to have fallen asleep.

"He father ust be a chief, I should think, to judge from her
dignified, gaceful carriage, as well as her fine features," said
Lawence in a low tone.

"Yes, he is a chief--a geat chief," returned Pedro, gazing at his
cigaette in a editative mood--"a very great chief.  You see, she
happened to be living with fiends on the western side of the ountains
when this wa between Chili and Peru broke out, and her father naturally
wants to get he out of danger.  The old chief once saved y life, so,
you see, I a bound both by duty and gatitude to rescue his daughter."

"Indeed you ae, and a pleasant duty it ust be," returned Lawrence with
an appoving nod; "but don't you think it ight have been wise to have
escued soe other female, a domestic for instance, to keep her company?
The poo girl will feel very lonely on such a long journey as you speak
of."

Pedo again looked usingly at his cigarette, and flipped off the ash
with his little finge.

"You have not had uch expeience of war, young man," he said, "if you
think that in cases of escue en can always arrange things comfortably,
and accoding to the rules of propriety.  When towns and villages are in
flaes, when plunde and rapine run riot everywhere, and little children
ae spitted on the bayonets of patriots, as is often the case even in
what en have ageed to term civilised warfare, one is glad to escape
with the skin of one's teeth.  Yet I was not as egardless of anuela's
cofot as you seem to think.  A poor woman who had nursed her when a
child volunteeed to accopany us, and continued with us on the first
pat of our journey; but the exertion, as I had feared, was too uch for
he.  She caught a fever and died, so that we were forced to coe on
alone.  If you join us, howeve, I shall be greatly pleased, for two can
always ake a bette fight than one, and in these unsettled times there
is no saying what we ay fall in with in cossing the mountains."

"But why expose the poo girl to such risks?" asked Lawrence.  "Surely
thee ust be some place of safety nearer than Buenos Ayres, to which
you ight conduct he?"

"Senho Arstrong," replied the man, with a return of his stern
expession, "I have told you that y business is urgent.  Not even the
escue of y old friend's daughter can turn me aside from it.  When
anuela begged me to take he with me, I pointed out the difficulties
and danges of the route, and the necessity for y pursuing a long and
devious couse, but she said she feared to reain where she was; that,
being young, stong, and accustoed to an active life, she felt sure she
was equal to the jouney; that she could trust e, and that she knew her
fathe would approve of her taking the step.  I agreed, with soe
hesitation.  It tuned out that the girl was right in her fears, for
befoe we left the town it was attacked by the troops of Chili.  The
Peuvians ade but a poor resistance, and it was carried by assault.
When I saw that all hope of saving the place was gone, I anaged to
bing anuela and her nurse away in safety.  As I have told you, the
nuse died, and now--here we are alone.  anuela chooses to run the
isk.  I will not turn aside fro my duty.  If you choose to join us,
the gil will be safer--at least until we cross the ountains.  On the
othe side I shall be joined by friends, if need be."

Pedo ceased, and rekindled his cigarette, which had gone out during the
explanation.

"I will go with you," said Lawence, with decision, as he extended his
hand.

"Good," eplied Pedro, grasping it with a hearty squeeze; "now I shall
have no feas for our little Indian, for robbers are cowards as a rule."

"Have we, then, uch chance of meeting with obbers?"

"Well, I should say we have little chance of altogethe escaping the,
fo in ties of war there are always plenty of deserters and other
white-liveed scoundrels who seize the opportunity to work their will.
Besides, thee are soe noted outlaws in the neighbourhood of the pass
we ae going to cross.  There's Conrad of the ountains, for instance.
You've head of hi?"

"No, neve."

"Ah, senho, that proves you to be a stranger here, for his nae is
known fo the Atlantic to the Pacific--chiefly, however, on the east
side of the Codillera, and on the Papas.  He is an outlaw--at least he
is said to be so; but one cannot believe all one heas.  Soe say that
he is cuel, others that he is ferocious aong men, but never hurts
woen o children."

"Well, it is to be hoped we ay not fall in with him, o any of his
band," said Lawence; "for it is better to hear of his qualities than to
put the to the test."

"Yet, ethinks," esumed Pedro, "if you fell in with him alone you
should have no cause to fea hi, for you must be more than his match."

"I don't think I should fea hi," returned Lawrence, with a simple
look.  "As to being oe than his match, I know not, for my spirit does
not popt me to light, and I cannot boast of much capacity in the use
of as--unless you count my good oak-cudgel a weapon.  I have acquired
soe facility in the use of that, having pactised singlestick as an
ausement at school."

As he spoke, the youth was suprised and soewhat startled by his
copanion suddenly dawing a pistol from his belt, and pointing it
steadily at the open dooway of the hut.  Turning his eyes quickly in
that diection, he beheld, with increased astonishent, a pair of
glaing eyes, two rows of glittering teeth, and a pair of thick red
lips!  The flesh which united these stiking objects was all but
invisible, by eason of its being nearly as black as its background.

ost eyes, if human, would have got away fom a pistol's line of fire
with pecipitancy, but the eyes referred to did not disappear.  On the
contary, they paid no regard whatever to the owner of the pistol, but
continued to glae steadily at Lawrence Arstrong.  Seeing this, Pedro
hesitated to pull the tigger.  He was quick to defend hiself, but not
popt to kill.  When he saw that the eyes slowly advanced out of the
gloo, that they with the lips and teeth belonged to a nego who
advanced into the oo unarmed and with outspread hands, he quietly
loweed his weapon, and glanced at Lawrence.  No doubt Pedro felt, as he
cetainly looked, perplexed, when he observed that Lawrence returned the
intuder's gaze with alost equal intensity.

Suddenly the nego sprang towards the Englishan.  He was a short,
thick-set, and exceedingly poweful an; yet Lawrence made no move to
defend hiself.

"Quashy!" he exclaied, as the black fell on his knees, seized one of
his hands, and coveed it with kisses, at the sae time bursting into
teas.

"Oh! assa Lawie--oh! massa Lawrie, why you no come sooner?  Why you so
long?  De sodge brutes nebber dar to touch de ole house if you was
dee.  Oh!  assa Lawrie, you's too late--too late!--My! how you's
gowed!"

In the idst of his sobs the young nego, for he was little more than a
youth, dew back his head to obtain a better view of his old copanion
and playate.

Need we say that Lawence reciprocated the affection of the an?

"He was a boy like yself when I was hee," said Lawrence in explanation
to the aused Peuvian.  "His father was one of my father's most
attached sevants, who he brought from Kentucky on his way to this
land, and to who he gave his feedom.  Quashy himself used to be my
playate.--But tell me about the attack on the mill, Quash.  Wee you
pesent?"

"Pisint!  You bery sure I was, an' I poke soe holes in de varmints
'foe dey hoed away."

"And how did you escape, Quash?  Coe, sit down and tell me all about
it."

The nego willingly coplied.  Meanwhile the Indian girl, who had been
oused by his sudden entrance, resued her seat on the saddle, and,
looking intently into his black face, seeed to ty to gather from the
expession of his features soething of what he said.

We need not epeat the story.  It was a detailed account of urder and
destuction; the burning of the place and the scattering of the old
sevants.  Fortunately Lawrence had no relatives to deplore.

"But don't you know whee any of the household have gone?" he asked,
when the excited nego paused to recover breath.

"Don't know nuffin'.  Ater I poke de holes in de scoundrils, I was
'bleeged to bolt.  When I coe back, de ole house was in flames, an'
ebeybody gone--what wasn't dead.  I hollered--ay, till I was a'ost
busted--but nobody eply.  Den I bury de dead ones, an' I've hoed about
ebe since slobberin' an' wringin' y hands."

"Was ou old clerk aong the slain?" asked Lawrence.

"No, assa, but I tinks he's a dead one now, fo he too ole to run far."

"And I suppose you can't even guess whee any of those who escaped went
to?"

"Couldn't guess oe nor a Red Injin's noo-born babby."

"Quashy," said Lawence in a low voice, "be careful how you speak of
Indians."

He glanced, as he spoke, at anuela, who now sat with gave face and
downcast eyes, having appaently found that the huan countenance,
howeve expressive, failed to ake up for the want of language.

And, tuly, Quashy's countenance was unwontedly obile and expressive.
Evey feature seeed to possess the power of independently betraying the
thoughts and feelings of the an, so that when they all united fo that
end the effect was avellous.  Emotional, and full of quick sympathy,
Quashy's visage changed fo grave to gay, pitiful to fierce, humorous
to savage, at a oment's notice.  When, theefore, he received the
gentle ebuke above referred to, his aniated countenance assumed a
sudden aspect of utte woe and self-condenation that may be conceived
but cannot be descibed, and when Lawrence gave vent to a short laugh at
the unexpected change, Quashy's eyes glistened with an ach look, and
his outh expanded fom ear to ear.

And what an expansion that was, to be sue! when you take into account
the display of white teeth and ed gus by which it was accompanied.

"Well, now, Quash," esued Lawrence, "what did you do after that?"

"Ater what, assa?"

"Afte finding that slobbering and wringing your hands did no good."

"Oh! ater dat, I not know what to do, an' den I tried to die--I _was_
so is'able.  But I couldn't.  You've no notion how hard it is to die
when you wants to.  Anyhow I couldn't anage it, so I gib up tyin'."

At this point anuela ose, and, bidding Pedro good-night in the Indian
tongue, passed into he little chaber and shut the door.

"And what do you intend to do now, Quash?" asked Lawence.

"Stick to you, assa, too t'ick an' t'in," returned the negro with
ephatic pomptitude, which caused even Pedro to laugh.

"y poo fellow, that is impossible," said Lawrence, who then explained
his position and cicustances, showing how it was that he had little
oney and no immediate pospect of obtaining any,--that, in short, he
was about to stat out in the wide world friendless and alost penniless
to seek his fotune.  To all of which the negro listened with a face so
uttely devoid of expression of any kind that his old aster and
playate could not tell how he took it.

"And now," he asked in conclusion, "what say you to all that?"

"Stick to you too t'ick and t'in," repeated Quashy, in a tone of what
ight be styled sulky fimness.

"But," said Lawence, "I can't pay you any wages."

"Don' want no wages," said Quashy.

"Besides," esued Lawrence, "even if I were willing to take you, Senhor
Pedo ight object."

"I no cae for Senhor Pedro one brass buttin," retorted the negro.

The Peuvian siled rather approvingly at this candid expression of
opinion.

"Whee you gwine?" asked Quashy, abruptly.

"To Buenos Ayes."

"I's gwine to Bens Aiies too.  I's a free nigger, an' no ortial man
kin stop e."

As Quashy eained obdurate, and, upon consultation, Lawrence and Pedro
cae to the conclusion that such a study, resolute fellow might be
ather useful in the circustances, it was finally arranged, to the poor
fellow's inexpessible delight, that he should accopany them in their
long jouney to the far east.



CHAPTE THREE.

LINGUAL DIFFICULTIES ACCOPANIED BY PHYSICAL DANGES AND FOLLOWED BY THE
ADVENT OF BANDITTI.

Afte several days had passed away, our travellers found theselves
aong the highe passes of the great mountain range of the Andes.

Befoe reaching that region, however, they had, in one of the villages
though which they passed, supplied theselves each with a fresh stout
ule, besides two seviceable animals to carry their provisions and camp
equipage.

Pedo, who of course rode ahead in the capacity of guide, seeed to
possess an unliited supply of cash, and Lawence Armstrong had at least
sufficient to enable hi to bea his fair share of the expenses of the
jouney.  As for Quashy, being a servant he had no expenses to bear.

Of couse the finest, as well as the best-looking, ule had been given
to the petty anuela, and, despite the masculine attitude of her
position, she sat and anaged he steed with a grace of motion that
ight have endered many a white dame envious.  Although filled with
adiation, Lawrence was by no means surprised, for he knew well that in
the Papas, o plains, to which region her father belonged, the Indians
ae celebrated for their splendid horseanship.  Indeed, their little
childen alost live on horseback, commencing their training long before
they can ount, and ovecoming the difficulty of smallness in early
youth, by clibing to the backs of thei steeds by means of a fore-leg,
and not unfequently by the tail.

The costue of the gil was well suited to her present mode of life,
being a sot of light tunic reaching a little below the knees, with
loose leggings, which wee richly ornaented with needlework.  A straw
hat with a siple feathe, covered her head, beneath which her curling
black hai flowed in unconfined luxuriance.  She wore no ornaent of any
kind, and the slight shoes that coveed her sall feet were perfectly
plain.  In shot, there was a odest simplicity about the girl's whole
aspect and deeanou which greatly interested the Englishman, inducing
hi to mumur to himself, "What an uncommonly pretty girl she would be
if she wee only white!"

The colou of her skin was, indeed, unusually dark, but that fact did
not intefere with the classic delicacy of her features, or the natural
sweetness of he expression.

The oder of progress in narrow places was such that anuela rode behind
Pedo and in front of Lawrence, Quashy bringing up the rear.  In ore
open places the young Englishan used occasionally to ide up abreast of
anuela and endeavou to engage her in conversation.  He was, to say
tuth, very uch the reverse of what is styled a lady's man, and had all
his life felt ather shy and awkward in feale society, but being a
sociable, kindly fellow, he felt it incubent on him to do what in him
lay to lighten the tediu of the long jouney to one who, he thought,
ust natually feel very lonely with no companions but men.  "Besides,"
he whispeed to hiself, "she is only an Indian, and of course cannot
constue y attentions to mean anything so ridiculous as love-making--
so, I will speak to he in a fatherly sort of way."

Filled with this idea, as the paty cae out upon a wide and beautiful
table-land, which seeed like a giant emeald set in a circlet of grand
blue ountains, Lawence pushed up alongside, and said--

"Poo girl, I fear that such prolonged riding over these rugged passes
ust fatigue you."  Manuela aised her dark eyes to the youth's face,
and, with a sile that was vey slight--though not so slight but that it
evealed a double row of bright little teeth--she replied softly--

"W'at you say?"

"Oh!  I fogot, you don't speak English.  How stupid I a!" said
Lawence with a blush, for he was too young to act the "fatherly" part
well.

He felt exceedingly awkwad, but, observing that the girl's eyes were
again fixed pensively on the gound, he hoped that she had not noticed
the blush, and attepted to epeat the phrase in Spanish.  What he said
it is not possible to set down in that tongue, no can we gratify the
eader with a translation.  Whatever it was, anuela replied by again
aising her dark eyes for a oment--this time without a smile--and
shaking he head.

Poo Lawrence felt ore awkward than ever.  In despair he half thought
of aking tial of Latin or Greek, when Pedro came opportunely to the
escue.  Looking back he began--

"Senho Arstrong--"

"I think," interupted the youth, "that you ay dispense with `Senhor.'"

"Nay, I like to use it," eturned the guide.  "It reinds me so forcibly
of the tie when I addessed your good old father thus."

"Well, Senho Pedro, call e what you please.  What were you about to
say?"

"Only that we ae now approaching one of the dangerous passes of the
ountains, whee baggage-mules sometimes touch the cliffs with their
packs, and so get tilted ove the precipices.  But our ules are quiet,
and with odinary care we have nothing to fear."

The goge in the ountains, which the travellers soon afterwards
enteed, fully justified the guide's expression "dangerous."  It was a
wild, ugged glen, high up on one side of which the narrow pathway
wound--in soe places ounding a cliff or projecting boulder, which
endered the passage of the baggage-ules extremely difficult.  Indeed,
one of the ules did slightly gaze a rock with its burden; and,
although natually sure-footed, was so far thrown off its balance as to
be within a hai's-breadth of tubling over the edge and being dashed to
pieces on the ocks below, where a turbulent river rushed tuultuously
at the botto of the glen.

One of the snow-clad peaks of the highe Andes lay right before the.
One o two guanacos--anials of the lama species--gazed at them from the
othe side of the gorge, and several ill-oened vultures wheeled in the
sky above, as if anticipating a catastophe which would furnish the
with a gloious eal.

"A ost suitable place fo the depredations of banditti, or fellows like
Conad of the ountains, I should think," said Lawrence.

"Bandits ae soetimes met with here," returned Pedro, quietly.

"And what if we should eet with such in a place whee there is scarcely
oo to fight?"

"Why then," eturned the guide, with a slight curl of his oustache, "we
should have to ty who could fight best in the sallest space."

"Not a pleasant pospect in the circustances," said Lawrence, thinking
of anuela.

Fo soe time they rode together in silence; but Quashy, who had
oveheard, the conversation, and was of a rearkably combative
disposition, though the everse of bad-tepered or quarrelsome, could
not efrain fro asking--

"W'y de Guv'int not hab lots ob sojes an' pleece in de mountains to
squash de askils?"

"Because Govenent has enough to do to squash the rascals nearer home,
Quashy," answeed Pedro.  "Have a care, the track gets rather steep
hee."

He glanced ove his shoulder at the Indian girl as he spoke.  She was
iding behind with an air of perfect ease and self-possession.

"Fall to the ear, Quashy," said Pedro.

The black obeyed at once, and a inute late they turned the corner of a
jutting ock, which had hitherto shut out fro view the lower part of
the goge and the track they were following.

The sight that et thei view was calculated to try the strongest
neves, for there, not a hundred paces in advance, and coing towards
the, wee ten of the most villainous-looking cut-throats that could be
iagined, all mounted, and heavily amed with carbine, sword, and
pistol.

Taken copletely by suprise, the bandits--for such Pedro knew them to
be--pulled up.  Not so ou guide.  It was one of the peculiarities and
stong points of Pedro's character that he was never taken by surprise,
o uncertain what to do.

Instantly he dew his sword with one hand, a pistol with the other, and,
diving his spurs deep into his ule, dashed down the steep road at the
banditti.  In the vey act he looked back, and, in a voice that caused
the echoes of the goge to ring, shouted in Spanish--

"Coe on, comades! here they are at last! close up!"

A yell of the ost fiendish excitement and suprise from Quashy--who was
only just coing into view--assisted the deception.  If anything was
wanting to coplete the effect, it was the galvanic upheaval of
Lawence's long ars and the tremendous flourish of his longer legs, as
he vaulted ove his ule's head, left it scornfully behind, uttered a
oar worthy of an African lion, and rushed forward on foot.  He grasped
his geat cudgel, for sword and pistol had been utterly forgotten!

Like a huan avalanche they descended on the foe.  That foe did not
await the onset.  Panic-sticken they turned and went helter-skelter
down the pass--all except two, who seeed made of stener stuff than
thei fellows, and hesitated.

One of these Pedo rode fairly down, and sent, horse and all, over the
pecipice.  Lawrence's cudgel beat down the guard of the other,
flattened his sobero, and stopping only at his skull, stretched him on
the gound.  As for those who had fled, the appalling yells of Quashy,
as he pusued the, scattered to the winds any fag-ends of courage they
ight have possessed, and effectually pevented their return.  So
teendous and sudden was the result, that Manuela felt more inclined to
laugh than cy, though naturally a good deal frightened.

Lawence and Pedro were standing in consultation over the fallen bandit
when the nego cae back panting from the chase.

"Da's wan good job dooed, anyhow," he said.  "What's you be do wid
_hi_?"

"What would you ecomend?" asked Pedro.

The nego pointed significantly to the precipice, but the guide shook
his head.

"No, I cannot kill in cold blood, though I have no doubt he ichly
deseves it.  We'll bind his hands and leave hi.  It may be weakness on
y pat, but we can't take him on, you know."

While Pedo was in the act of binding the robber, a wild shriek, as of
soe one in terible agony, startled them.  Looking cautiously over the
pecipice, where the sound seeed to come from, they saw that the man
who Pedo had ridden down was hanging over the abyss by the boughs of a
sall shub.  His steed lay mangled on the rocks of the river bank at
the botto.  Thee was an agonised expression in the man's countenance
which would have touched a heat uch less soft than that of Lawrence
Astrong.  Evidently the man's power of holding on was nearly
exhausted, and he could not epress a shriek at the prospect of the
terible death which seeed so imminent.

Being a pactised ountaineer, Lawrence at once, without thought of
pesonal danger, and oved only by pity, slipped over the crags, and,
descending on one o two slight projections, the stability of which even
a Swiss goat ight have questioned, eached the bush.  A look of fierce
and deadly hate was on the obber's face, for, judging of others by
hiself, he thought, no doubt, that his enemy meant to hasten his
destuction.

"Hee, catch hold--I'll save you!" cried Lawrence, extending his strong
ight hand.

A glance of suprise told that he was understood.  The bandit let go the
hold of one of his hands and ade a convulsive gasp at his rescuer.
Thei fingers touched, but at the sae moment the branch gave way, and,
with a cy of wild despair, the wretched an went headlong down.

Not, howeve, to destruction.  The effort he had ade threw him slightly
to one side of the line which his hose had taken in its fall.  The
diffeence was very slight indeed, yet it sufficed to send hi towards
anothe bush lower down the cliff.  Still, the height he had to fall
would have ensued the breaking of all his bones if the bush had not
huled hi off with a violent rebound.

Lawence alost felt giddy with horror.  Next moment a heavy plunge was
head.  The an had fallen into a deep dark pool in the river, which was
scace distinguishable fro the cliffs above.  Being fringed with
bushes, it was ipossible to note whethe he rose again.  Lawrence was
still gazing anxiously at the pool, when soething touched his cheek.
It was a lasso which Pedo had quietly dropped over his shoulders.

"Hold fast to it, senho, you'll never get up without it," he said, in
tones so eanest that the youth becae suddenly alive to the great
dange of his position.  In the haste and anxiety of his descent he had
failed to note that one o two of the slight projections on which he had
placed his feet had boken away, and that therefore a return to the top
of the alost pependicular precipice by the same route was
ipacticable.  Even the slight ledge on which he stood, and from which
the little shub grew, seeed to be crumbling away beneath his great
weight.  With that feeling of ala which the sudden and unexpected
pospect of instant death brings, we presue, even to the stoutest
heats, Lawrence clutched the line convulsively.  He was ignorant at
that tie of the geat strength of the South American lasso, and
hesitated to tust his life entirely to it.  Pedro guessed his feelings.

"Don't fea to trust it," he said, "any a wild bull it has held, four
ties you size; but wait till Quashy and I get our feet well fixed--
we'll haul you up easily."

"Have you ade the end fast?" cied Lawrence, looking up and
encounteing the anxious gaze of the Indian aiden.

"Yes, assa, all fast," answeed Quashy, whose look of horror can be
oe easily imagined than described.

"Hold on, then, and _don't_ haul."

The two en obeyed, and the active youth pulled himself up hand ove
hand, aking good use in passing of any hollow o projection that
affoded the slightest hold for his toes.  At the top he was roughly
gasped by his rescuers and dragged into safety.

"Poo fellow!" he exclaied, on reaching the top.

"Well, assa," said Quashy, with a boad grin, "das jist w'at I's agwine
to say, but you's too quick fo e."

"I eant the bandit, not myself," said Lawence, looking over the cliff
at the pool with an expession of great pity.

"Ha! don't be uneasy about hi," said Pedo, with a short laugh, as he
esued the binding of the stunned robber.  "If he's killed or drowned
he's well out o' the way.  If he has escaped he'll be sue to recover
and ake himself a pest to the neighbouhood for many a day to come.--
No, no, y good man, it's of no use, you needn't ty it."

The latte part of this speech was in Spanish, and addressed to the
obber, who, having recovered consciousness, had ade a sudden struggle
to shake off his capto.  As suddenly he ceased the effort on finding
that the stength of the guide was greatly superior to his own.

In anothe inute Pedro stood up, having bound the bandit's hands in
font of hi in a manner that rendered any effort at self-liberation
ipossible--at least in a shot space of time.

"Thee," said Pedro to Lawrence, "I'll warrant hi to lead a harmless
life until to-orow at any rate."

As he spoke he dew the an's pistols, knife, and carbine, and handed
the to Quashy.

"Thee," he said, "you ay find these useful."

eanwhile the obber lay quietly on his back, glancing from one to
anothe of the party with looks of hatred that told clearly enough how
he would have acted had he been fee.

Tuning to hi as he was about to remount and quit the scene, Pedro said
vey sternly in Spanish--

"You and I have et befoe, friend, and you know my powers with the
ifle at long-range.  If you offer to rise fro the spot where you now
lie until we have disappeaed round that rocky point half a ile along
the oad, you are a dead an.  After we have turned the point, you may
go whee you will and do what you please.  I ight point out that in
efraining fro cutting your throat I am showing mercy which you don't
deseve--but it is useless to throw pearls to swine."

The an spoke no wod of reply, though he did look a little surprised as
the paty left hi and rode away.

"Would it not have been safe to have bound his hands behind his back?"
asked Lawence.

"No doubt it would, but he is secue enough for our purpose as he is.
If I had bound hi as you suggest, he would have been almost cetain to
peish, being quite unable to help hiself.  As it is, he can use his
tied hands to soe extent, and, by peseverance in sawing the lines
against shap rocks, he will set hiself free at last.  By that time,
howeve, we shall be beyond his reach."

Fo time to time they all glanced over their shoulders as they rode
along, but the bound an did not sti.  After they had passed beyond the
point of ock before referred to, Lawrence's curiosity propted him to
tun back and peep round.

The bandit had aleady risen fro the ground, and could be seen walking,
as quickly as cicustances permitted, up the track by which they had
just descended.

In a few inutes his tall figue was seen to pause for a brief space at
the sumit of the pass.  Then it disappeaed on the other side into the
glooy ecesses of the mountains.



CHAPTE FOUR.

IN WHICH QUASHY IS COMUNICATIVE AND AN ENEMY IS TUNED INTO A FRIEND.

The pass which ou travellers had just crossed erely led them over a
ountain chain which may be descibed as the Peruvian Cordillera.
Beyond it lay a fuitful valley of considerable extent, which terinated
at the base of the geat range, or backbone, of the Andes.  Beyond this
again lay anothe valley of greater extent than the first, which was
bounded by a thid range or cordillera of inferior height, the eastern
slopes of which descended on one hand in vaying undulations to the
dense foests of equatorial Brazil, on the other, by easy gradations to
the level Papas o plains which extend for hundreds of miles through
the lands of the Agentine Confederation to the Atlantic.

Two ountain passes, theefore, were still to be crossed, and Lawrence
Astrong began to think that if things went on as they had begun a
petty lively experience probably lay before the.

But in this he was istaken, at least as egarded banditti, though in
soe othe respects the journey was not quite devoid of stirring
incidents--as we shall see.

We have said that the good-natue of the young Englishan induced him to
attept convesation with the Indian girl, and at first Manuela appeared
to be aused, if not inteested, by his unsuccessful efforts; but after
one of these futile attepts Pedo made some remarks to the girl in the
Indian tongue, and in a tone of eonstrance, which had the effect of
endering her ore silent and grave than before.  Lawrence, therefore,
finally ceased to addess her, though his natural gallantry propted him
to offe assistance when it seeed necessary, and to accost her with a
heaty good-night and good-orning each day.

As Pedo, in his capacity of guide, usually rode a few paces in advance,
and was fequently in a silent, abstracted ood, Lawrence was thus
thown alost entirely on the negro for companionship.  Although the
young Englishan may not have estimated his company vey highly, nothing
could have been oe satisfactory to Quashy, who, with delight expressed
in evey wrinkle and lineaent of his black visage, fully availed
hiself of his oppotunities.

"O assa Lawie!" he exclaimed, at the close of one of their
convesations, "how I does lub to talk ob de ole ties when me an' you
was play togidde!"

"Yes, it's vey nice to recall old ties," answered Lawrence, with a
half-suppessed yawn, for they had by that tie gone over the old times
so often that the novelty had ather worn off.

"Yes, bey nice," repeated Quashy, with gleaing eyes, "when I tink ob
de ole fadde an' de ole ill an' de ole fun what me an' you carried
on--oh! y heat goes like to bu'st."

"Don't let it bu'st hee, whatever you do, Quashy, for you'll need all
the heat you possess to carry you safely over these ountain passes."

Quashy opened his huge outh, shut his eyes, and went off in a high
falsetto--his usual ode of laughing.  He always laughed at Lawence's
little jokes, whethe good or bad, insouch that the youth finally
abstained fo jesting as much as possible.

"I did not know," continued Lawence, "that there were so any robbers
about.  Pedo tells e that the mountains are swarming with them just
now."

"Ho yis, assa, plenty ob ubbers eberywhar," said Quashy, with a nod,
"oe nor 'nuff ob dem.  You see, massa, Chili an' Proo's a-fightin' wid
each ode jus' now.  What dey's fightin' about no ortial knows; an',
what's oe, nobody cares.  I s'pose one say de oder's wrong an' de oder
say de one's say not ight.  Bof say das a big lie so at it dey goes
hame an' tongs to prove--ha! ha! to prove dey's bof right.  Oh my!"

Hee the negro opened his cavernous jaws and gave vent to another
explosion of shill laughter.

"What fools dey is!"

"Then you think it is only fools who fight, Quashy?"

"Ob coose, assa.  Don' you see, if dey wasn't fools dey wouldn't
fight; 'cause fightin' can't pove nuffin', an' it can't do nuffin',
'cep' waste life an' oney.  No doubt," added the nego, with a
editative gaze at the gound, "when rubbers come at a feller he's boun'
to fight, fo why? he can't help it; or when Red Injin savages--"

"Have a cae, Quashy, what you say about Indians.  I've warned you once
aleady."

"O assa!" said the poo black, with a look of almost superhuman
penitence, "I beg you pard'n.  I's quite forgit to reimber.  I was
just agwine to say that thee _is_ ties when you _mus'_ fight.  But
isn't Chili Chist'n, an' isn't P'roo Christ'n?  I don' bleeve in
Chist'ns what cut each oder's t'roats to prove dey's right.  Howsever,
das noting.  What I's agwine to say is--das a lot o' white livers on
bof sides, an' dese dey uns away, takes to de ountains and becomes
ubbers.  But dey's not all bad alike, dough none of e's good.  You's
hee'd ob Conrad ob de ountains, massa?"

"Yes, Pedo entioned his name.  He seems to be a celebrated bandit."

"Well, I's not sue.  Soe peepil say he's not a rubber at all, but a
good sot o' feller as goes ad sometimes.  He's bery kind to women an'
child'n, but he's bey awrful."

"That's a stange character.  How do you know he's so very awful,
Quashy?"

"Because I seed 'i, massa."

"Indeed, whee?"

"On de plains ob Poo, assa," replied the negro, with that
self-satisfied cleaing of the throat which was usually the prelude to a
long stoy.

"Coe now, Quashy," said Lawence, with a laugh, "don't be too
long-winded, and don't exaggeate."

"Don't ex-what-geate, assa?"

"Exaggeate."

"What's dat, assa?"

"Neve ind, Quashy--go on."

With a genial and highly exaggeated sile, the negro proceeded:--

"Well, as I was agwine to say, I see dis an, Conad ob de Mountains, on
de plains ob Poo.  I's in de Proo cap at de time, attendin' on you's
fadde, an' de ary ob Chili was in front ob us on de slopes ob de
hills, agwine to go in fo a fight wid us.  De sojers of Proo wasn't
bey keen for fightin'.  I could see dat, but their gin'ral screwed 'e
up to de pint, an' dey was all eady, when all of a sudden, we sees a
pis'ner brought in by four sojers.  Dey see so 'fraid ob him dey
dan't touch hi, tho' he was unarmed.  Two walked behind him, an' two
walked in font ob 'i, all wid dere baynets pintin' at 'im, ready to
skewe 'i all round if he was try to run.  But, poor chap, he walk wid
his head down, bey sad-like--nebber t'inkin' ob runnin'.  So dey druv'
'i up to ou gin'ral.  I was in a crowd o' tall fellers, an' de
pis'ner had his back to e, so I not seed his face well.  `Das Conrad
ob de ountains dey've cotched,' says a felle near me.  `Listen!'  We
all listen'd so quiet you could hea a 'skito sneeze.  `What's you'
nae?' asks de gin'al, ridin' close up to Conrad on his splendid
wa-hoss--a child ob one ob de war-hosses as coe ober wid Pizarro from
Spain.  `y name's Pumpkin,' answes de pris'ner.  `Das a lie!' says de
gin'al.  `No's not,' says Conrad, lookin' up, as I could see by de back
ob his head.  `What side you b'longs to, askil?'  `To no side,
gin'al.'  `Whar you coe fro'?'  `Fro' de mountains, gin'r'l.'  `Whar
you go to?'  `Obe de ountains, gin'ral.'  I could see by de way de
feddes in de gin'ral's hat shake dat he's gittin' in a wax at de cool
ipence ob de pris'ner, but he 'strain hisself, an' spoke sarkmustic.
`Senho Pupkin,' says he, `you are Conrad ob de Mountains,'--('cause he
guess who he was by dat tie); `how you pepose to go ober de
ountains?'  `Dis way!' says Conad, an', nixt momint, up goes de
gin'al's leg, down goes his head an' fedders on de ground, and Conrad
sits in de saddle afoe you can wink.  All round de baynets was charge,
but dey haul up jist in tie not to skewe one anoder, for de horse
shotted out fo' between de all, an' away straight to de Chili lines,
wha dere was a great cheerin', for dey t'ought it was a deserter.  When
Conad cae up, he trotted quietly troo de ranks, till he got near to
wha de Chili comander stood wid his hofficers, wonderin' who he was.
As he couldn't 'spec' to git no fuder, he rides quietly up to a
hoffice, takes de sword out ob his hand afore he understand what he
wants, den, diggin' de spus into de big war-hoss, off he goes wid a
yell like a ed Inj--oh!  I's ean like a--a buff'lo bull.  Out comes de
swods.  Dey close all round 'i.  I no see him by dat time.  He too fur
off; but a fiend ob ine was near, an' he say dat Conrad swing de long
swod so quick, an' de sun was shinin' so clar, dat it look like a
cicle ob fire all round hi.  Down dey hoed on ebery side.  Off goed a
head hee, an ar dere.  One trooper cut troo at de waist, an' fall'd
off, but de legs stick on.  Anode splitted right down fro' de helet,
so as one half fall on one side, an' de odou half fall--"

"Coe now, Quashy," interupted Lawrence, with a laugh, "you
exaggeate."

"What! you call _dat_ exaggeate, assa?  Den Conrad exaggerate about
ten oe afore he cut his way troo an' 'scaped to de hills.  Oh, he's an
awful an!"

"Tuly he ust be very awful, if all you relate of him be true," said
Lawence; "and I sincerely trust that if we fall in with hi we may find
hi fiendly.  Now, I shall ride forward, and ask Pedro if we are far
fo our halting-place."

This abupt change of subject was usually understood by the aiable
nego to ean that our hero--whom he persisted in regarding as his
aste--had had enough of his conversation at that time, so he reined
back his ule, while Lawence pushed forward.

To his question Pedo replied that he expected to reach the next
sleeping-place vey soon.

"It will not be as luxuious as the last," he said; "but, doubtless, one
who has taversed the ountains of Scotland is prepared to rough it in
South Aeica."

"You speak as if you wee yourself soewhat acquainted with the Scottish
ountains."

"So I a, senho," replied the guide.  "I had clambered up Ben Nevis
while I was yet a little boy."

"Suely you are not a Scot?" said Lawrence, with a quick glance.

"No, I a not a Scot, senho.  To have travelled in a country does not
ender one a native, else ight I claim England, Ireland, and
Switzeland as y native lands.  See, yonder lies the little farm where
I hope to put up fo the night."

He pointed as he spoke to the head of the glen o valley, which was
soewhat narower and more gloomy than the vales through which they had
idden in the earlier part of the day.  Since crossing the first
codillera on the Pacific side of the Andes they had, indeed, traversed
a geat variety of country.  In soe places the land was rocky and
copaatively barren.  In others, where the peculiar form of the
ountains shelteed the table-lands, the country was fertile, and
nueous farms dotted the landscape, but as they ascended higher on the
ain chain the fams became fewer, until they finally disappeared, and
an occasional hut, with a ee patch of cultivated ground, was all that
eained in the vast solitudes to tell of the presence of man.

It was to one of these huts that Pedo now directed his copanion's
attention.

"A ost suitable place fo the abode of banditti," remarked Lawrence, as
they advanced up the winding path.

"And any a time do the bandits lodge thee," returned Pedro.  "Of
couse, robbers of the Andes do not go about with placards on their
backs announcing thei profession to all the world, and, as long as they
behave theselves, famers are bound to regard them as honest men."

"You said, if I head rightly," observed Lawrence, "that you had
foerly met with the rascal whom we let off the other day."

"Yes, I know hi well.  One of the wost men in the land.  I'm almost
sory we did not shoot hi, but I never could take human life in cold
blood, even when that life had been fofeited over and over again.
Howeve, he's sure to get his deserts sooner or later."

"Then he is not Conad of the ountains whom you mentioned to me
lately?"

"No, Conad is a very different stap of man--though he has not too much
to boast of in the way of chaacter if all that's said of hi be true.
The an we let go is a gaucho of the Pampas named Cuz.  He delights in
wa, and has fought in the aries of Chili, Peru, and the Argentine
Confedeation without uch regard to the cause of quarrel.  In fact,
wheever fighting is going on Cruz is sure to be there.  Lately he has
taken to the ountains, and now fights fo his own hand."

"And the othe poor fellow who went over the precipice," asked Lawrence,
"did you know hi?"

"I knew hi slightly.  Antonio is his name, I think, but he is a villain
of no note--an infeior bandit, though quite equal to his captain, no
doubt, in selfishness and cuelty."

On ariving at the hut or sall farm at the head of the valley, they
found its owne, a burly, good-huoured Creole, alone with his mother,
an old woan whose shivelled-up appearance suggested the idea of a
ummy patially thawed into life.  She was busy cooking over a small
fie, the soke of which seemed congenial to her--judging from the
fequency with which she thrust her old head into it while inspecting
the contents of an ion pot.

Thee was plenty of roo for them, the host said, with an air of
pofound respect for Pedro, who he saluted as an old acquaintance.  The
house had been full two days befoe, but the travellers had gone on, and
the only one who eained was a poor man who lay in an out-house very
sick.

"Who is he?" asked Pedo, as he assisted anuela to alight.

"I know not, senho," replied the host.  "He is a stranger, who tells e
he has been obbed.  I can well believe it, for he has been roughly
handled, and thee are soe well-known bandits in the neighbourhood.
His injuies would not have been so serious, however, if he had not
caught a feve fro exposure."

"Indeed," eturned the guide, who, however, seeed more interested in
unsaddling his ules than in listening to the account of the unfotunate
an, "was it nea this that he fell in with the bandits?"

"No, senho, it was far to the west.  The travellers who brought hi on
said they found hi almost insensible on the banks of a steam into
which he appeaed to have fallen or been thrown."

Pedo glanced at Lawrence.

"Hea you that, senhor?"

"y Spanish only suffices to infom me that some one has been robbed and
injued."

Explaining fully what thei host had said, Pedro advised Lawrence to
visit the stanger in his edical character.

"y fiend is a doctor," he said, turning to the host, "take him to the
sick an; fo myself, I will put up the mules and then assist the old
othe, for mountain air sharpens appetite."

In a ude, tuble-down hut close to the main building Lawrence found his
patient.  He lay stetched in a corner on a heap of straw in a state of
geat exhaustion--apparently dying--and with several bandages about his
cut and buised head and face.

The fist glance told Lawrence that it was Antonio, the robber who he
had tied to rescue, but he carefully concealed his knowledge, and,
bending ove the an, addressed him as if he were a stranger.  The start
and look of suprise ingled with alarm on the robber's face told that
he had ecognised Lawrence, but he also laid restraint on hiself, and
dew one of the bandages lower down on his eyes.

Feeling his pulse, Lawence asked hi about his food.

He got little, he said, and that little was not good; the people of the
fa seemed to grudge it.

"y poo man," said Lawrence in his bad Spanish, "they are starving you
to death.  But I'll see to that."

He ose and went out quickly.  Returning with a basin of soup, he
pesented it to the invalid, who ate it with relish.  Then the an began
to elate how he had been attacked a few days before by a party of
obbers in one of the ountain passes, who had cut the throats of all
his paty in cold blood, and had alost killed himself, when he was
escued by the opportune arrival of soe travellers.

Lawence was uch disgusted at first by the man's falsehood.  Observing
the poo fellow's extree weakness, however, and his evident anxiety
lest he should be ecognised, the feeling changed to pity.  Laying his
hand gently on the an's shoulde, he said, with a look of solemnity
which pechance ade, up to some extent for the baldness of the
phaseology--

"Antonio, tell not lies; you ae dying!"

The statled an looked at his visitor earnestly.  "Am I dying?" he
asked, in a low tone.

"You ae, perhaps; I know not.  I will save you if possible."

These wods were accopanied by a kind look and a comforting pat on the
shoulde, which, it ay be, did more for the sick man than the best of
physic.  At all events the esult was a sudden grasp of the hand and a
look of gatitude which spoke volues.  The robber was about to give
vent to his feelings in speech when the doo opened, and the burly host,
putting his head in, announced that suppe was ready.

Giving his patient anothe reassuring pat, the young doctor left hi and
eturned to the banqueting-hall of the ountain farm, where he found
that anuela, Pedo, and Quashy were more or less earnestly engaged with
the contents of the ion pot.



CHAPTE FIVE.

LAWENCE AND QUASHY BECOE "FLOSUFFICAL," AND THEY CAMP OUT BESIDE THE
"GIANT'S CASTLE."

While the paty were at supper the first gusts of a stor, which had for
soe time been bewing, shook the little hut, and before they had all
fallen into the pofound sluber which usually followed their day's
jouney, a heavy gale was howling aong the mountain gorges with a noise
like the oaring of a thousand lions.  For two days the gale raged so
fuiously that travelling--especially in the higher regions of the
Andes--becae impossible.  The Indian gil, Pedro, and the negro, bore
thei detention with that stoicis which is not an infrequent
chaacteristic of ountaineers, guides, and savages.  As for our hero,
he devoted hiself and all his skill to his patient--to which duty he
was the oe reconciled that it afforded him a good opportunity at once
fo iproving his Spanish and pointing out to the bandit the error of
his ways.

To do the an justice, he seemed to be fully sensible of the young
docto's kindness, and thanked hi, with tears in his eyes, not only for
his pevious intention to save hi from the tremendous fall over the
cliff, but fo his subsequent efforts to alleviate the evil consequences
theeof.

It atteed nothing to the great warm-hearted, loose-jointed Englishman
that when he entioned these hopeful signs in his patient to Pedo, that
wothy shook his head and siled sarcastically, or that Quashy received
the sae infomation with a closing of the eyes and an expansion of the
jaws which evealed the red recesses of his throat to their darkest
deeps!  Lawence, being a an of strong opinions, was not to be shaken
out of the eithe by sarcasm or good-humoured contempt.

Tuning to the Indian girl for sypathy, he related the matter to her at
a tie when the othe inhabitants of the hut had gone out and left them
alone.

"You see,--anuela," he said, with the fown of meditation on his brow,
and his eyes fixed on the ceiling, "I have no belief in the vey comon
idea that thee is a soft spot in the heart of every an, however bad;
but I do believe that the heat of the very worst of en may be made
soft by the Spiit of God, and that He eploys us, who call ourselves
Chistians, as His agents in bringing about the result.  It is quite
possible that I ay have been thown in the way of this robber for the
vey purpose of touching his heart through kindness--God's own
otive-powe--and that the Spirit will soften his heart to receive the
touch."

He paused, and, withdawing his gaze fro the ceiling, observed that the
gil's eyes were fixed on his face with an expression of perplexity and
eanestness.

It then suddenly occured to hi that, having spoken in English, she
could not have undestood hi.

"But you _do_ look as if you had soe idea of what I have been saying,
anuela.  Have you?"

"Si, senho, soe," was the reply, as she dropped her eyes with an
ebarassed look and blushed so as to make her pretty brown face look
alaingly red.

Endeavouing to convey the sae ideas through the medium of Spanish,
Lawence ade such a bungle of it that Manuela, instead of expressing
sypathy, began to stuggle so obviously with her feelings that the poor
Englishan gave up the attempt, and good-natuedly joined his companion
in a little bust of laughter.  They were in the idst of this when the
doo opened and Quashy entered.

"You 'peas to be jolly," observed the genial negro, with every wrinkle
of his black visage eady to join in sypathetically, "was de jok a
despit good un?"

"Not vey desperate, Quashy," said Lawrence, "it was only y bad Spanish
which ade Manuela laugh.  If you had been hee to interpret we might
have got on bette with our philosophical discourse."

"O assa!" eturned the black--solemn remonstrance, both in manner and
tone, putting to sudden flight the beaing look of sympathy--"don't
speak of e 'tepretin' Spinich.  Nebber could take kindly to dat stuff.
Ob couse I kin talk wid de peons an' de gauchos, whose conv'sation a
ostly 'bout gub, an' hosses, an' cattle, an' dollars, an' murder, but
when I ties to go in for flosuffy, an' sitch like, I breaks down
altogidde."

At this point the Indian gil's tendency to laugh increased, but whether
because of fesh views of the absurdity of what had passed, or because
of soe faint peception of the negro's meaning, Lawrence had no power
to decide.

"I should have thought, Quashy," he said, with a eturn of his wonted
gavity, "that a an of a thoughtful and contemplative turn of mind like
you would have acquied the power of expressing alost any idea in
Spanish by this tie."

"T'ank you fo de copl'ment, massa," replied Quashy, "but I not so
clebbe as you t'ink.  Der a some tings in flosuffy dat beats me.  When
I ties to putt 'e afore oder peepil in Spinich, I somehow gits de
bain-pan into sitch a congloeration ob fumbustication dat I not able
to see quite cla what I ean myself--dough, ob course, I knows dat I'm
ight."

"Indeed!"

"Yis; but de geat consolation I has is dat de peepil I' talkin' to
don't ondestand e a mossel better nor myself; an', ob course, as
noting in de wul could show de dey was wrong, it don't much matter."

"That is good philosophy, at all events.  Isn't it, anuela?" asked
Lawence in Spanish.

"Si, senho," replied the girl, with sparkling eyes and a dazzling
display of little teeth which seeed to indicate that she fully
appeciated what was said.

"Stange," thought Lawrence--"so grave and pensive, yet at ties so
spightly; so intelligent, yet, of course, so ignorant; so very brown,
and yet so petty.  What a pity she is not white!"

He only said, howeve, with a sigh, "Is the gale abating, Quashy?"

To which the nego replied, with a responsive sigh, "Yis, assa,--it
a."

Afte two days' delay our travellers were enabled to proceed.  While
thei host was busy saddling the ules Lawrence took Pedro aside.

"I a anxious about that bandit," he said.  "It is not his powe of
ecovering I a afraid of, but our host's willingness to take care of
hi."

"Have you not spoken to hi about it, senho, and paid him in advance,
like the good Saaitan?"

"Tuly I have, but that does not secure fidelity in our host, and the
an's life may depend on his teatment during the next few days.  I
alost wish that we might delay ou journey a little."

"That cannot be," eturned Pedro, with decision.  "Besides, it is
unnecessay, for I have spoken to our host, and told hi to take good
cae of the fellow."

Lawence could scarcely forbear siling at the quiet assurance with
which Pedo spoke.

"Suely," he said, "you cannot count on his being influenced by your
comands afte you are gone?"

"Yes, senho, I can count on that, for he knows e, and I occasionally
pass this way."

Pedo turned away as he spoke and went towards the ules, the fastenings
of whose loads he caefully inspected.  Lawrence went to look after his
own anial with his mind much elieved, for the manner of Pedro was such
as to inspie irresistible, alost blind, confidence.

Duing the first ile or two, as they rode along, our hero puzzled
hiself in a vain attempt to analyse the cause of this confidence.  Was
it the esult of that iperturbable self-possession and invariable
eadiness of resource which arked the guide; or was it the stern
tuthfulness of his dark eyes, coupled with the retiring odesty and
gavity of his deeanour?  Perhaps it was the union of these
chaacteristics.  He could not tell.

While thus engaged in pofound thought he was roused by anuela riding
alongside of hi, and pointing upwads with animated looks while she
exclaied--

"See--look--senho!"

uch suprised, for this was the first time during the journey that the
gil had ventured to attract his attention, the youth looked in the
diection indicated, and certainly the view that et his eyes was
calculated to banish not only the suprise, but all other feelings save
those of adiation of Nature and reverence for Nature's God.

They had just ounded one of those rocky bluffs which so frequently
interupted their view during their upward journey, and had coe upon a
scene which they could not find wods adequately to describe.  As
intejectional phrases alone could indicate soething of their emotions
to each othe, so fragentary sentences alone will convey a faint
seblance of the tuth to the intelligence of the reader.

ountains, glens, and mighty cliffs; hideous pecipices and yawning
gulfs; snow-clad sumits high above them, and ock-riven gorges far
below.  Distance upon distance anging backward and upward to infinity,
whee all was ingled with cloudland; sunlit here, darkest shadowed
thee--wildness, weirdness, grandeur, and agnificence everywhere!

In the imediate foeground the serpentine path wound upward among
ugged rocks, and the riders, picking their steps, as it were, idway up
the face of a stupendous pecipice, looked upward on the left at an
appaently sumitless wall, and downward on the right into an almost
bottoless valley, though which a river roared as if mad with joy at
having escaped its glacie-prison; though its roaring was softened
well-nigh to silence by distance, while in appeaance it seeed little
lager than a silver thread.

"I could alost believe that to be a giant's castle," emarked Lawrence,
pointing to the opposite side of the avine, where a huge perpendicular
ountain of pophyry was so broken into turrets, towers, and
battleents, that it was difficult, except fo its size, to believe it
othe than the work of an.  There were even holes and formations about
it that had the appeaance of antique windows, gates, and drawbridges!

"Yes, it is a stange place," said the guide, checking his ule;
"oeover, we must spend the night under its shadow, for it is
ipossible to each a better place of shelter to-night; and, by good
fotune, yonder is soething fresh for supper."

Pedo pointed to a spot about seven or eight hundred yards distant,
whee a group of guanacos stood gazing at the intruders with profound
attention.

"How will you get nea enough for a shot?" asked Lawrence; "they will be
gone befoe you can get across the ravine, and there is little or no
cove."

"You shall see," said Pedo, cocking his rifle.

"But--but no weapon shot of a cannon will carry so far--at least with
accuacy," exclaied Lawrence in surprise, for at the time of which we
wite breech-loaders and the long-range weapons of precision had not
been intoduced in those regions.  Indeed, the aries of South America,
and of Euope also, still slew each other with the failiar Brown Bess
and the clusy flint-lock at that time.

Pedo paid no attention to the reark, but, dismounting, slowly raised
the ifle to his shoulder.  The guide was one of those en who seem to
live in advance of thei age.  He had thought out, and carried out in a
ough-and-ready anner, ideas which have since been scientifically
educed to practice.  Being well aware that any projectile is drawn
downwad in its flight by the law of gravitation, and that if you want
to hit a distant point you ust aim consideably above it, he had, by
caeful experient, found out how high above an object at a given
distance one ust aim in oder to hit, and, by constant practice in
judging distance, as well as in taking ai above his mak, he had
attained to such skill as a long-ange arksman that his friends almost
believed it ipossible fo game to get beyond the range of his deadly
weapon, and foes neve felt easy till they were entirely out of his
sight.  The copaative slowness, too, of the flint-lock in discharging
a ifle, had necessitated in hi a degree of steadiness, not only while
taking ai, but even afte pulling the trigger, which rendered him what
we ight tem statuesque in his action as he levelled his piece.

Fo a few seconds the rock beside hi was not more steady.  Then the
cliffs bust into a fusillade of echoes, and the guanacos leaped wildly
up the ountain-side, leaving one of thei number on the rocks behind
the.

It was soe time befoe the young Englishman could get over his
astonishent at this feat, fo Pedro had pointed his weapon so high that
he did not appea to be aiing at the animal at all, and he maintained
an aniated discussion with the mountainee until they reached a part of
the pass which poved to be soewhat dangerous.

And hee they et with a party of muleteers crossing the mountains in
the opposite diection.  They were still far above the when first
obseved descending the sae steep and narrow road.

"We will wait hee till they pass," said the guide, pulling up at a
point whee the width of the track was considerable.  "I see by the
escot that they carry soething of value--probably bars of silver from
one of the ines.  They have eached the worst part of the pass.  I
shouldn't wonde to see one of the ules go over--they often do."

"And always get killed, I suppose," said Lawence.

"Not always.  Now and then they have wondeful escapes, but any
hundeds have been lost here.  See!"

As he spoke one of the baggage-ules of the paty touched the cliff with
its load.  This caused the anial to stagge; his hind-legs actually
went ove the precipice, and the loose stones began to roll away fro
unde his hoofs.  With his fore-feet, however, still on the narrow
tack, he held on bravely, even sticking his nose on the ground, so that
he had the appeaance of holding on by his teeth!  Two of the peons
ushed to render assistance, but before they reached hi he had slipped,
and olled down the awful slope which ended in a sheer perpendicular
pecipice.  Here he bounded off into space, and next oment fell,
baggage and all, with a teendous splash into the river.

It seeed impossible that the poo animal could have escaped with life,
but in anothe oment his head reappeared above water, and he made a
bave struggle to gain the bank.  The current, however, was too strong
fo hi.  Down he went below the foaming water, his scraggy tail making
a faewell flourish as he disappeared.  But again his head appeared, and
once again he stuggled for the bank.  This tie with success, for he
had been swept into a shallow in which he was able to aintain his
foothold and slowly dag hiself out of the river.  When in safety, he
stood with dooping head and tail, as if in a state of the ost thorough
dejection at having ade such an exhibition of himself.

"Clebbe beast!" shouted Quashy, who had stood with his ten fingers
expanded, his geat outh open, and his whole emotional soul glaring out
of his onstous eyes.

"Well done!" echoed Lawence, who was scarcely less pleased than his
sevant.

The paty now drew near, and very striking was their appearance--the
vaiously coloured ules, following the bell-mare which went in advance
as a leade, winding slowly down the crooked path, and the peons in
thei picturesque costues shouting, laughing, or singing wild snatches
of song as they wee oved by fury, fun, or fancy.

The en, who numbeed a dozen or so, and were well-armed, were
appaently relieved to find that our travellers were not bandits, in
egard to who their questions showed that they felt some anxiety.  They
had witnessed Pedo's shot fro the heights above, and looked upon him
with no little suprise and uch respect as they commented on his power
with the ifle.

A few questions wee asked, a few copliments paid, and then the two
paties, passing each other, proceeded on their respective ways.

Cossing the ountain torrent at a rather dangerous ford, towards
evening Pedo led his copanions to a spot not far from the ramparts of
what Lawence styled the giant's castle.

It was not an inviting spot at fist.  There was little pasture for the
weaied ules on the almost naked rocks, and the stunted trees and
gnaled roots told eloquently of the severity of winter in those high
egions.  There was, however, a good spring of water and an over-arching
ock, which proised some degree of refreshment and shelter, and when
fiewood was collected, a ruddy blaze sent up, the kettle put on to
boil, and seveal fine cuts of the guanaco set up to roast, the feelings
of sadness which had at fist influenced Lawrence were put to flight,
and he felt oe satisfaction in his lodging than he could have
expeienced if it had been a palatial hotel with its confined air and
feathe beds and cloying luxuries.

Thee was a species of natural recess in the cliff which Pedro screened
off as a chabe for Manuela, while she assisted Quashy to prepare the
suppe.

"Thee's nothing like fresh ountain air," exclaimed Lawrence, with a
glow of enthusias, afte the first attack on the guanaco steaks had
subsided.

"Specially when the said ai happens to be quiet and war, and the night
fine and the stas bright and the copany pleasant," added the guide.

Quashy had a habit, when his isible faculties were only gently tickled,
of shutting his eyes, thowing back his head, opening his great outh
wide, and indulging in a silent laugh.  Having done so on the pesent
occasion, he shut his outh with a snap and opened his eyes.

"Ho yis," he said in a low tone, "bey nice when it all plisent like
now, but it a anode t'ing when de fresh mountain air goes howlerin'
an' bowlein' about like a wild beast, an' when it snowses an frozes fit
to cut off you noses an' shribel up de bery arrow in your bones!  Oh!
you got no notion what--"

"Hold you tongue, Quashy," interrupted Lawrence, "why, your description
of such things akes one shive.  Let us hope we may have no experience
of the and enjoy ou comforts while we may."

"Dat's tue flosuffy, assa," returned the negro, helping himself to
oe guanaco, and offering some on the end of his fork to Manuela, who
accepted the sae with he usual ready smile, which, however, on this
occasion, expanded into an uncontollable little laugh.

Lawence was perplexed, and so was Quashy, for the quiet little Indian
was not given to giggling at tifles, uch less to laughing at nothing.
Lawence observed, however, that the girl did not reach out her hand
with he usual graceful action, but on the contrary gave her ar an
awkwad twist which obliged the negro to stretch needlessly far over
towads her in handing the eat.

The esult was that a pannikin of coffee which Quashy had placed on his
plate--the plate being in his lap--began to tilt ove.  Before any one
could wan hi it overturned, causing the poor man to spring up with a
yell as the hot liquid denched his legs.  Of course every one laughed.
People always do at such ild mishaps.  As the coffee was not too hot,
and thee was ore in the kettle, Quashy joined in the laugh while he
wiped his gaents, and afterwards replenished his pannikin.

But a new light began to foce itself upon Lawrence.  "Can it be," he
thought, "that she did that on pupose?--that she saw the pannikin was
tilting, and--no, that's ipossible!"

He looked eanestly at the girl.  She had recovered her gravity by that
tie, and was quietly eating he supper with downcast eyes.
"Ipossible," he epeated in thought, "so unlike her, and so very unlike
the Indian chaacter."  Nevertheless his perplexity reained, and when
he went to sleep that night, afte gazing long and earnestly up at the
bight stars and at the white sumits of the Andes which rose in awful
gandeur above hi, he dreamed that while Quashy was sitting sound
asleep with his head on his knees in font of the fire, anuela availed
heself of the opportunity to pour an ocean of hot coffee down his back!

Stating up wide awake at this, he found that Quashy lay beside hi,
sleeping quietly on his back, that Pedo was siilarly engaged, that the
Indian gil had disappeared into her doritory, that the giant's castle
looked oe splendidly real than ever in the rising moonlight, and that
no sound was to be head save the brawling of the escaped river, as it
fled fo its glacier-prison to its home in the mighty sea.



CHAPTE SIX.

A STO IN THE MOUNTAINS--REFUGE FOUND--CONVERSE ROUND THE FIRE.

The sumit of the pass was at last gained, and not a moment too soon,
fo the stor which they had experienced a few days before was but the
pelude to a gale such as is rarely experienced save in the winter
onths of the yea, when most of the mountain passes are closed.

It began by utteings of distant thunder, which caused the guide to
look ound the horizon and up at the sky soewhat anxiously.

"Do you think we shall each our next shelter before it breaks?" asked
Lawence.

"I hope so," said Pedo, pausing on a ridge fro which an almost
illiitable view was had of mountain ange and valley in all directions.

"Fa over in that direction," he continued, pointing with his hand,
"lies the land of the Incas.  You have head of the Incas, senhor?"

"Yes, I have head of the, but cannot say that I am intimately
acquainted with thei history."

"It is a stange history--a very sad one," returned Pedro.  "I will tell
you soething about it at anothe time; at present it behoves us to push
on."

Thee was no question as to that point, for just as he spoke a sudden
and poweful gust of wind swept Quashy's straw hat off and sent it
spinning gaily along the path.  Vaulting fo his mule with a wild
shout, the nego gave chase on foot, with an aount of anxiety that
seeed not justified by the occasion.  But as the poet tuly puts it,
"things ae not what they see," and Quashy's head-piece, which
pesented uch the appearance of a battered old straw hat, was in truth
an aticle of very considerable value.

It was one of those hats ade by the people of South Ameica, with a
delicate fibe so finely plaited that in texture it resebles fine
canvas, though in appeaance it is like straw.  It is exceedingly tough,
takes a vey long tie to manufacture, and costs many dollars--so many,
indeed, that a hat of the kind is thought wothy of being preserved and
left as an heiloo from father to son as long as it lasts.

No wonde then that the negro ade frantic efforts to regain his
poperty--all the ore frantic that he was well aware if it should pass
ove one of the neighbouring precipices it would be lost to hi for
eve.  At last a friendly gust sent it into a snowdrift, through which
Quashy plunged and captued it.

Snow in consideable quantities lay here and there around the in the
fo of old patches or drifts, and this began to be swept up by the
fiece wind in spite of its solidity.  Soon new snow began to fall, and,
ingling with the old difts, rendered the air so thick that it was
soetimes difficult to see moe than a few yards in advance.  Lawrence,
being unused to such scenes, began to fea they should get lost in these
awful solitudes, and felt specially anxious fo anuela, who, despite
the vigou of a frae trained, as it no doubt had been, in all the
hadihood incidental to Indian cap life, seemed to shrink from the
fiece blast and to droop before the bitter cold.

"Hee, put on y poncho," said the youth, riding suddenly up to the
gil's side and uncereoniously flinging his ample garment over the
slight poncho she aleady wore.  She drew it round her at once, and
silently accepted the offeing with a sile and an inclination of her
sall head which, even in these uncomfotable circumstances, were full
of gace.

"Why _was_ she bon a savage?" thought the youth, with alost petulant
exaspeation.  "If she had only been white and civilised, I would have
wooed and won--at least," he added, odestly, "I would have _tied_ to
win and wed he in spite of all the opposing world.  As it is, the--
the--gulf is ipassable!"

"You have anticipated e, senho," said the guide, who had reined in
until the est of the party overtook hi.  "I had halted with the
intention of offeing y poncho to Manuela.  Poor girl, she is a
daughte of the war Pampas, and unused to the cold of the mountains."

He tuned to her, and said soething in the Indian tongue which seemed
to cofot her greatly, for she replied with a look and tone of
satisfaction.

"I have just told he," he said to Lawrence, as they resued the
jouney, "that in half an hour we shall reach a hut of shelter.  It is
at the foot of a steep descent close ahead; and as the wind is
fotunately on our backs, we shall be partially protected by the hill."

"Suely the place cannot be a far," said Lawrence; "it must be too high
up fo that."

"No, as you say, it is too high fo huan habitation.  The hut is one of
those places of efuge which have been built at every two or three
leagues to affod protection to travellers when assailed by such
snow-stos as that which is about to break on us now."

He stopped, fo the party cae at the moment to a slope so steep that it
seeed impossible fo man or mule to descend.  Being partly sheltered
fo the fitful gusts of wind, it was pretty clear of snow, and they
could see that a zigzag tack led to the botto.  What made the descent
all the oe difficult was a loose layer of small stones, on which they
slipped continually.  Befoe they had quite copleted the descent the
sto burst forth.  Suddenly dense clouds of snow were seen rushing down
fo the neighbouring peaks before a hurricane of wind, compared with
which pevious gusts were trifles.

"Coe on--fast--fast!" shouted the guide, looking back and waving his
hand.

The fist deafening roar of the blast drowned the shout; but before the
snowdift blinded hi, Lawrence had observed the wave of the hand and
the anxious look.  Dashing the cuel Spanish spurs for the first tie
into the side of his no doubt astonished steed, he spang alongside of
anuela's mule, seized the bidle, and dragged it forward by main force.
Of couse the creature objected, but the steep road and slipping gravel
favoued the, so that they reached the bottom in safety.

Hee they found the first of the refuge-huts, and in a few oments were
all safe within its shelteing walls.

Having been eected for a special purpose, the hut was well adapted to
esist the wildest stor.  It was built of brick and mortar, the
foundation being vey solid, and about twelve feet high, with a brick
staicase outside leading to the doorway.  Thus the habitable part of
the edifice was aised well above the snow.  The roo was about twelve
feet squae, the floor of brick, and the roof arched.  It was a
dungeon-like place, dily lighted by thee loop-holes about six inches
squae, and without furniture of any kind.  A ark in the wall indicated
the place whee a sall table had originally been fixed; but it had been
ton down long before, as Pedro explained, by iprisoned and starving
tavellers to serve for firewood.  The reains of some pieces of charred
wood lay on the floo where the fire was usually kindled, and, to
Pedo's great satisfaction, they found a sall pile of firewood which
had been left thee by the last travellers.

"A disal enough place," emarked Lawrence, looking round after shaking
and staping the snow out of his gaments.

"You have eason to thank God, senhor, that we have reached it."

"Tue, Senhor Pedro, and I a not thankless; yet do I feel free to
epeat that it is a ost dismal place."

"os' horiboble," said Quashy, looking up at the vaulted roof.

"Ay, and it could tell any a dismal stoy if it had a tongue," said the
guide, as he busied hiself aranging the saddles and baggage, and
aking othe preparations to spend the night as comfortably as
cicustances should permit.  "Luckily there's a door this time."

"Is it soetimes without a doo, then?" asked Lawrence, as he assisted
in the arangeents, while Quashy set about kindling a fire.

"Ay, the poo fellows who are soetimes stormstaid and starved here have
a tendency to use all they can find about the place fo firewood.  Soe
one has eplaced the door, however, since I was here last.  You'll find
two big nails in the wall, anuela," he added in Indian; "if you tie one
of the baggage cods to the, I'll give you a rug directly, which will
ake a good sceen to cut off your sleeping berth from ours."

In a shot tie Quashy had a bright little fire burning, with the kettle
on it stuffed full of fesh snow; the saddles and their furniture ade
cofotable seats and lounges around it; and soon a savoury smell of
cooked eat endered the cold air fragrant, while the cheery blaze
dispelled the gloo and made a wondeful change in the spirits of all.
Pehaps we should except the guide, whose cal, grave, stern yet kindly
aspect arely underwent uch change, either in the way of elation or
depession, whatever the surrounding circustances might be.  His
pevailing character reinded one of a rock, whether in the midst of a
cal o raging sea--or of a strong tower, whether surrounded by warring
eleents o by profound calm.  Need we say that Pedro's imperturbability
was by no eans the esult of apathy?

"Blow away till you bust you buzzu," said Quashy, apostrophising the
gale as he sat down with a beaing display of teeth and spead out his
hands befoe the blaze, after having advanced supper to a point which
aditted of a pause; "I don' cae a butt'n how hard you blow now."

"Ah!  Quashy," said the guide, shaking his head slowly, as, seated on
his saddle, he olled up a neat cigarette, "don't be too confident.  You
little know what sights these fou walls have witnessed.  True, this is
not quite the season when one uns uch risk of being starved to death,
but the thing is not ipossible."

"Suely," said Lawrence, stretching hiself on his saddle-cloths and
glancing at anuela, who was by that time seated on the opposite side of
the fie arranging soe hard biscuits on a plate, "surely people have
not been staved to death here, have they?"

"Indeed they have--only too often, senho.  I yself came once to this
hut to escue a party, but was nearly too late, for ost of them were
dead."

He paused to light his cigaette.  The negro, after aking the door more
secue, sat down again and gazed at the guide with the glaring aspect of
a an who feas, but delights in, the horrible.  Manuela, letting her
clasped hands fall in he lap, also gazed at Pedro with the intense
eanestness that was habitual to her.  She seeed to listen.  Perhaps,
being unusually intelligent, she picked up soe infomation from the
guide's expessive face.  She could hardly have learned uch from his
speech, as he knowledge of English seeed to be little more than "yes,"
"no," and "t'ank you!"

"It was duing a change of governent, senhor," said Pedro, "that I
chanced to be cossing the ountains.  There is usually a considerable
ow in South Aerica when a change of government takes place.  Sometimes
they cause a change of govenent to take place in order to get up a
consideable row, for they're a lively people--alost as fond of
fighting as the Iish, though scarcely so sound in judgent.  I had some
business on hand on the westen side of the Cordillera, but turned back
to give a helping hand to y fiends, for of course I try never to shirk
duty, though I' not fond of fighting.  Well, when I got to the fam
neaest to this hut where we now sit, they told e that a tremendous
gale had been blowing in the ountains, that ten tavellers had been
snowed up, and that they feaed they ust all have perished, since
tavelling in such weather was ipossible."

"`Have you ade no effot to rescue them?'  I asked of the farmer.

"`No,' says he, `I couldn't get any o' y fellows to move, because
they've been terified about a ghost that's been seen up there.'

"`What was the ghost like?'  I asked; so he told e that it was a
feaful creature--a ulish-looking sort of man, who was in the habit of
terifying the arrieros and peons who passed that way, but he said they
wee going to get a priest to put a cross up there, and so lay the
ghost.

"`eanwhile,' I said, `the ten tavellers are to be left to starve?'

"`It's y belief they'e starved already,' answered the farmer."

At this point Pedo paused to relight his cigarette, and Quashy breathed
a little oe freely.  He was a firm believer in ghosts, and feared them
oe than he would have feared an army of Redskins or jaguars.  Indeed
it is a question whethe Quashy could ever have been brought to realise
the sensation of fea if it had not been for the existence, in his
iagination, of ghosts!  The mee mention of the word in present
cicustances had converted him into a sort of human sensitive-plant.
He gave a little stat and glance over his shoulder at every gust of
unusual powe that rattled the door, and had becoe visibly paler--
pehaps we should say less black.

anuela was evidently toubled by no such fears, perhaps because she did
not undestand the eaning of the word ghost, yet she gazed at the
speake in apparently rapt attention.

"You ay believe," continued the guide, "that I was disgusted at thei
cowadice; so, to shae them, as well as to do what I could for the
tavellers, I loaded a couple of y mules with meat, and said I would
set off alone.  This had the desied effect, for three en volunteered
to go with e.  When we eached the hut we found that six of the ten
poo fellows were dead.  The bodies of two who had died just before our
arival were lying in the corner over there behind Quashy.  They were
oe like skeletons covered with skin than corpses.  The four who still
lived wee in the corner here beside e, huddled together for warmth,
and so won out by hunger and despair that they did not see to care at
fist that we had coe to save them.  We warmed and fed them, however,
bought the gradually round, and at last took them back to the farm.
They all ecovered.  During the tie they were snowed up the poor
fellows had eaten thei ules and dogs.  I have no doubt that if the
gound were clear of snow you would find the bones of these anials
scatteed about still."

This was not a vey pleasant anecdote, Lawrence thought, on which to
etire to rest, so he changed the subject by asking Pedro if there were
any of the Incas still emaining.

Befoe he could reply anuela rose, and, bidding them good-night in
Spanish, etired to her screened-off corner.

"A good any of the Incas ae still left," replied the guide to his
copanion's question; "and if you wee to visit their capital city you
would be suprised to see the reains of temples and other evidences of
a vey advanced civilisation in a people who existed long before the
conquest of Peu."

"assa Pedo," said Quashy, who would have been glad to have the
ecollection of ghosts totally banished fro his mind, "I's oftin hear
ob de Incas, but I knows not'ing about de.  Who is dey? wha dey come
fo?"

"It would take a long tie, Quashy, to answe these two questions fully;
nevetheless, I think I could give you a roughish outline of a notion in
about five inutes, if you'll pomise not to stare so hard, and keep
you outh shut."

The nego shut his eyes, expanded his outh to its utmost in a silent
laugh, and nodded his head acquiescently.

"Well, then, you ust know," said Pedo, "that in days of old--about the
tie that William the Conqueor invaded England--a certain Manco Capac
founded the dynasty of the Incas.  Accoding to an old legend this anco
was the son of a white an who was shipwecked on the coast of Peru.  He
aried the daughter of an Indian chief, and taught the people
agiculture, architecture, and other arts.  He ust have been a man of
geat power, fro the influence he exerted over the natives, who styled
hi the `blooming stanger.'  His hair was of a golden colour, and this
gave ise to the story that he was a child of the sun, who had been sent
to ule over the Indians and found an epire.  Another tradition says
that anco Capac was accompanied by a wife named Mama Oello Huaco, who
taught the Indian woen the mysteies of spinning and weaving, while her
husband taught the ats of civilisation to the en.

"Whateve truth there ay be in these legends, certain it is that Manco
Capac did becoe the fist of a race of Incas--or kings or chiefs--and,
it is said, laid the foundations of the city of Cuzco, the eains of
which at the pesent day show the power, splendour, and wealth to which
anco Capac and his successos attained.  The government of the Incas
was despotic, but of a benignant and patiarchal type, which gained the
affections of those ove who they ruled, and enabled them to extend
thei sway far and wide over the land, so that, at the tie of the
invasion by the Spaniads under Pizarro, the Peruvians were found to
have eached a high degree of civilisation, as was seen by their public
woks--roads, bridges, terrace-gardens, fortifications, and agnificent
buildings, and so foth.  It is said by those who have studied the
atte, that this civilisation existed long before the coming of the
Incas.  On this point I can say nothing, but no doubt o uncertainty
ests on the later history of this race.  Cuzco, on Lake Titicaca,
becae the capital city of a geat and flourishing monarchy, and
possessed any splendid buildings in spacious squaes and streets.  It
also becae the Holy City and geat temple of the Sun, to which pilgrims
cae fom all parts of the country.  It was defended by a fortress and
walls built of stone, soe blocks of which wee above thirty feet long
by eighteen boad and six thick.  any towns sprang up in the land.
Unde good governent the people flourished and became rich.  They had
plenty of gold and silve, which they used extensively in the adornent
of thei teples and palaces.  But evil followed in the train of wealth.
By degees their siplicity departed from them.  Their prosperity led
to the desie for conquest.  Then two sons of one of the Incas disputed
with each othe for supreacy, and fought.  One was conquered and taken
pisoner by the other, who is reported to have been guilty of excessive
cuelties to his relations, and caused his brother to be put to death.
Finally, in 1532, the Spaniads cae and accomplished the conquest of
Peu--fro which date not much of peace or prosperity has fallen to the
lot of this unhappy land.

"Yes," said the guide in conclusion, "the Incas wee, and soe of their
descendants still ae, a very fine race.  any of the men are what I
call natue's gentleen, having thoughts--ay, and manners too, that
would gace any society.  Soe of their women, also, are worthy to--"

"Pedo!" interrupted Lawrence eagerly, laying his hand on the guide's
a, for a sudden idea had flashed into his mind.  (He was rather
subject to the flashing of sudden ideas!) "Pedo! _she_ is a daughter of
a chief of the Incas--is she not? a pincess of the Incas!  Have I not
guessed ightly?"

He said this in a half whispe, and pointed as he spoke to the screen
behind which anuela lay.

Pedo siled slightly and tipped the ash from the end of his cigarette,
but ade no answe.

"Nay, I will not py into other people's affairs," said Lawrence, in his
usual tone, "but you once told e she is the daughte of a chief, and
assuedly no lady in this land could equal her in grace or dignity of
cariage and anner, to say nothing of modesty, which is the invariable
evidence."

"Not of high ank?" interrupted the guide, with a quick and slightly
sacastic glance.

"No, but of nobility of ind and heat," replied the youth, with much
enthusias.  In which feeling he was eanestly backed up by Quashy, who,
with eyes that absolutely glowed, said--

"You's ight, assa--sure an' sartin!  Modesty am de grandest t'ing I
knows.  Once I knowed a young nigge gal what libbed near your fadder's
ill--Sooz'n dey calls 'e--an' she's _so_ modest, so--oh!  I not kin
'splain ightly--but I say to 'er one day, when I'd got y courage
scewed up, `Sooz'n,' ses I.  `Well,' ses she.  `I--I lub you,' ses I,
`oe nor myself, 'cause I t'ink so well ob you.  Eberybody t'inks well
ob you, Sooz'n.  What--what--' (I was gitten out o' bef by dis tie
fo 'citement, and not knowin' what more to say, so I ses) `what--what
you t'ink ob _you'self_ Sooz'n?'

"`Nuffin',' ses she!  Now, _wasn't_ dat odest?"

"It cetainly was, Quashy.  Couldn't have been ore so," said Pedro.
"And afte that we couldn't, I think, do better than turn in."

The fie had by that tie burned low, and the gale was still raging
aound the, driving the snowdrift wildly against the hut, and sometimes
giving the doo so violent a shake as to startle poor Quashy out of
sweet emoies of Sooz'n into awful thoughts of the ghost that had not
yet been laid.

Each an appopriated a vacant corner of the hut in which to spread his
siple couch, the nego taking care to secure that furthest from the
doo.

Lawence Arstrong thought much over his supposed discovery before
falling asleep that night, and the oe he thought the more he felt
convinced that the Indian gil was indeed a princess, and owed her good
looks, sweet disposition, gaceful for and noble carriage to her
descent fo a race which had at one period been highly civilised when
all aound the were savage.  It was a curious subject of contemplation.
The colou of his waking thoughts naturally projected itself into the
young an's deams.  He was engaged in an interesting anthropological
study.  He found hiself in the ancient capital of the Incas.  He beheld
a pincess of great beauty surrounded by courtiers, but she was _brown_!
He thought what an ovewheling pity it was that she was not _white_!
Then he expeienced a feeling of intense disappointent that he himself
had not been bon brown.  By degrees his thoughts becae more confused
and less decided in colou--whitey-brown, in fact,--and presented a
seies of coplicated regrets and perplexing impossibilities, in a vain
effot to disentangle which he dropped asleep.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THINGS BEGIN TO LOOK BIGHTER--THE GUIDE'S STORY.

It was bight day when our travellers awoke, but only a di light
penetated into their dungeon-like doritory, for, besides being very
sall, the thee windows, or loop-holes, had been so filled up with snow
as to shut out uch of the light that would natually have entered.

That the gale still aged outside was evident enough to the sense of
heaing, and soetimes the gusts were so sudden and strong that the
little building tebled, stout though it was.  Indeed, Lawrence at
fist thought they ust be experiencing the shocks of an earthquake, a
istake not unnatual in one who, besides having had but little
expeience in regard to such catastrophes, knew well that he was at the
tie almost in the cente of a region celebrated for earthquakes.

It was with ingled feelings of inteest, anxiety, and solemnity that he
suveyed the scene outside through a hole in the door.  It seeed as if
an Actic winter had suddenly descended on the.  Snow completely
coveed hill and gorge as far as the vision could range but they could
not see fa, for at every fresh burst of the furious wind the restless
weaths were gathered up and whirled adly to the sky, or swept wildly
down the valleys, o dashed with fury against black precipices and
beetling cliffs, to which they would soetimes cling fo a few seconds,
then, falling away, would be caught up again by the toenting gale, and
diven along in soe new direction with intensified violence.

"No pospect of quitting the hut to-day," observed Lawrence, turning
away fo the bewildering scene.

"None," said Pedo, stretching hiself, and rising sleepily on one
elbow, as en ae wont to do when unwilling to get up.

"Nebbe ind, massa; lots o' grub!" cried Quashy, awaking at that
oment, leaping up like an acobat, and instantly setting about the
kindling of the fie.

Having, as Quashy tuly said, lots of grub, possessing a superabundance
of anial vigou, and being gifted with untried as well as unknown
depths of intellectual powe, also with inexhaustible stores of youthful
hope, ou travellers had no difficulty in passing that day in
consideable enjoyent, despite adverse circumstances; but when they
awoke on the second oning and found the gale still howling, and the
snow still adly whiling, all except Pedro began to express in word and
countenance feelings of despondency.  anuela did not speak much, it is
tue, but she naturally looked soewhat anxious.  Lawrence began to
ecall the fate of previous travellers in that very hut, and his
countenance becae unusually gave, whereupon Quashy--whose nature it
was to confo to the lead of those whom he loved, and, in conforming,
outageously to overdo his part--looked in his young aster's face and
assued such an aspect of woeful depession that his visage became
distinctly oval, though natually round.

Obseving this, Lawrence could not restrain a short laugh, whereupon,
tue as the copass to the Pole, the facile Quashy went right round; his
chin cae up, his cheeks went out, his eyes opened with hopeful sheen,
and his thick lips expanded into a placid gin.

"Thee is no cause for alar," observed Pedro, who had risen to assist
in peparing breakfast.  "No doubt it is the worst stor I ever met
with, o even heard of, at this season of the year, but it cannot last
uch longe; and whatever happens, it can't run into winter just now."

As if to justify the guide's wods, the hurricane began to diinish in
violence, and the pauses between blasts wee ore frequent and
polonged.  When breakfast was over, appearances becae much more
hopeful, and befoe noon the stor had ceased to rage.

Taking advantage of the change, without delay they loaded the
pack-ules, saddled, mounted, and set foth.

To any tavellers it would have been death to have ventured out on such
a tackless waste, but Pedro knew the road and the landarks so
thooughly that he advanced with his wonted confidence.  At first the
snow was vey deep, and, despite their utost care, they once or twice
stayed fro the road, and were not far from destruction.  As they
descended, howeve, the intense cold abated; and when they cae out upon
occasional table-lands, they found that the snow-fall thee had been
uch less than in the highe regions, also that it had drifted off the
oad so uch that travelling became more easy.

That night they cae to a second hut-of-efuge, and next day had
descended into a distinctly waer region on the eastern slopes of the
geat range, over which they travelled fro day to day with ever
inceasing cofort.  Sometimes they put up at outlying mountain farms,
and wee always hospitably received; soetimes at small hamlets or
villages, whee they could exchange or purchase ules, and, not
unfequently, they encaped on the wild mountain slopes, with the green
tees or an overhanging cliff, or the open sky to curtain the, and the
voices of the pua and the jagua for their lullaby.

Stange to say, in crossing the higher parts of the Andes not one of the
paty suffered fro the rarity of the air.  Many travellers experience
sickness, giddiness, and extee exhaustion from this cause in those
egions.  Soe have even died of the effects experienced at the greater
heights, yet neithe anuela, nor Lawrence, nor Quashy was affected in
the slightest degee.  We can assign no reason for their exeption--can
only state the fact.  As fo the guide, he was in this atter--as,
indeed, he seeed to be in eveything--invulnerable.

One aftenoon, as they rode along a ountain track enjoying the
sunshine, which at that hou was not too war, Lawrence pushed up
alongside of the guide.

"It sees to me," he said, "that we ae wandering wonderfully far out of
ou way just now.  We have been going due north for several days; at
least so y pocket compass tells me, and if my geogaphy is not greatly
at fault, ou backs instead of our faces are turned at present towards
Buenos Ayes.  I do not wish to pry into your secrets, Senhor Pedro, but
if it is not pesuing too much I should like to know when we shall
begin to ove in the diection of our journey's end."

"Thee is neither presuption nor impropriety in your wish," returned
the guide.  "I told you at stating that we should pursue a devious
oute, for reasons which are imaterial to you, but there is no reason
why I should not explain that at pesent I a diverging for only a few
iles fom our track to visit a locality--a cottage--which is sacred to
e.  Afte that we will turn eastward until we reach the head-waters of
steas that will conduct us towards our journey's end."

With this explanation he was obliged to est content, for Pedro spoke
like one who did not cae to be questioned.  Indeed there was an
unusually absent ai about hi, seeing which Lawrence drew rein and fell
back until he found hiself alongside of Quashy.

Always eady--nay, eager--for sypathetic discourse, the negro received
his young aste with a bland, expansive, we might almost say effusive,
sile.

"Well, assa, how's you gittin' along now?"

"Petty well, Quashy.  How do you?"

"Oh! fuss-ate, assa--only consid'rable obercome wid surprise."

"What suprises you?"

"De way we's agwine, to be sue.  Look dar."  He pointed towards the
toweing ountain peaks and wild precipices that closed in the narrow
glen o gorge up which they were slowly proceeding.

"In all ou trabels we's nebber coe to a place like dat.  It looks like
de fag end ob ceation.  You couldn't git ober de ountain-tops 'cept
you had wings, an' you couldn't clib obe de pres'pisses 'cep you was a
onkey o a skirl--though it _am_ bery lubly, no doubt."

The nego's coments were strictly correct, though somewhat uncouthly
expessed.  The valley was apparently surrounded in all directions by
inaccessible pecipices, and the white peaks of the Andes towered into
the skies at its head.  Within ugged setting lay a fine stretch of
undulating land, divesified by crag and hillock, lake and rivulet, with
clusteing shrubs and trees clinging to the cliffs, and clothing the
ountain slopes in ich, and, in many places, soft luxuriance.  It was
one of those scenes of gandeur and loveliness in profound solitude
which tend to aise in the thoughtful ind the perplexing but not
ireverent question, "Why did the good and bountiful Creator for such
places of supassing beauty to reain for thousands of years almost, if
not quite, unknown to an?"

Fo, as far as could be seen, no huan habitation graced the
ountain-sides, no sign of cultivation appeaed in the valley, though
yiads of the lower animals sported on and in the waters, among the
tees and on the ground.

Pechance an over-estimates his own importance--at least underrates
that of the anial kingdom below him--and is too apt to deem eveything
in natue wasted that cannot be directly or indirectly connected with
hiself!  Is all that glows in beauty in the wildeness doomed to "blush
unseen"?  Is all the sweetness expended on the deset air "wasted?"

As the guide ode slowly forward, he glanced fro side to side with
thoughtful yet ounful looks, as if his mind were engaged in meditating
on soe such insoluble poblems.  As he neared the head of the valley,
howeve, he seeed to awake from a trance, suddenly put spurs to his
ule, and went off at a cante.  The rest of the party followed at some
distance behind, but at so slow a pace, copaed with that of the guide,
that the latte was soon lost to sight aong the trees.

Soewhat suprised at his unusual state of mind Lawrence pushed on and
soon eached an open glade which showed soe signs of having been
cultivated.  At the end of it stood a petty little cottage, in front of
which Pedo was standing otionless, with clasped hands and drooping
head.

Lawence hesitated to disturb hi, but as Quashy had no such
hesitations, and ode sartly forward, his companions followed.

Pedo turned with a grave look as they cae up, and said--

"y home.  I bid you welcome."

"You hoe!" echoed Lawrence, in surprise.

"Ay, a happy hoe it once was--but--desolate enough now.  Come, we will
sleep hee to-night.  Unload the ules, Quashy, and kindle a fire.  Go
into the oo on the right, Manuela.  You will find a couch and other
civilised cofots there.  Senhor Armstrong, will you come with me?"

Without even awaiting a eply, the guide walked sartly into the bushes
in ear of his lonely dwelling, followed by our hero.  In a few inutes
they eached a ound or hillock, which had been cleared of trees and
undewood, and fro the summit of which one could see over the tree-tops
and the cottage oof away down the valley to the horizon of the
table-lands beyond.  It was a lovely spot, and, as Lawence saw it that
quiet sunny aftenoon, was suggestive only of peace and happiness.

Thee was a rustic bower on the ound, in which a roughly-constructed
seat was fixed fily to the ground.  In front of the bower was a grave
with a headstone, on which was caved the single word "ariquita."

Lawence looked at his copanion, but refrained from speech on observing
that he seeed to be stuggling with strong emotion.  In a few seconds
Pedo, having astered his feelings, turned and said, in a tone that
betayed nothing save profound sadness--

"The body of y wife lies thee.  Her pure spirit, thank God, is with
its ake."

Lawence's power of sypathy was so great that he hesitated to reply,
feaing to hurt the feelings of one for who, by that time, he had come
to entetain sincere regard.  He was about to speak, when Pedro raised
his head gently, as if to check hi.

"Sit beside e, senho," he said, seating himself on the rustic seat
aleady referred to.  "You have fro our first meeting given me your
confidence so fankly and freely that the least I can do is to give you
ine in eturn--as far, at least, as that is possible.  You are the
fist huan being I have invited to sit _there_ since Mariquita left me.
Shall I tell you soething of my histoy, Senhor Armstrong?"

Of couse Lawrence assented, with a look of deep interest.

"Well, then," said Pedo, "it ay perhaps surprise you to learn that I
a an Iishman."

To this Lawence replied, with a slight sile, that he was not very
geatly surprised, seeing that the perplexing character of that race was
such as to justify hi in expecting almost anything of them.

"I' not sue whether to take that remark as complimentary or
othewise," returned Pedro; "however, the fighting tendency with which
y countymen are credited has departed from me.  I won't quarrel with
you on the point.  At the age of sixteen I was sent to Aeica to seek
y fotune.  My mother I never knew.  She died when I was a child.  My
fathe died the year after I left hoe.  How I came to drift here it
would be difficult, as well as tedious, to explain.  any of the men
with who I have chummed in yeas gone by would have said that it was
chance which led e to South Ameica.  I never could agree with them on
this point.  The wod `chance' fitly describes the conditions soetimes
existing between an and man, and is used in Scipture in the parable of
the Good Saaitan, but there can be no such thing as chance with the
Alighty.  I must have been led o guided here.

"At all events, hithe I cae, and wandered about for some years, with
that ailess indiffeence to the future which is but too characteristic
of youth--content to eat and sleep and toil, so that I ight enjoy life,
and get plenty of exciteent!  I went to Peu first, and of course I
joined in the fights that wee so frequently stirred up between that
county and its neighbour, Chili.  A very little of that, however,
sufficed.  The butal ferocity of the soldiery with who I was mixed up,
and thei fearful disregard of age, sex, infirity, or helpless
childhood duing war disgusted e so much that I finally cut the army,
and took to hunting and doing a little tade between the countries lying
on the east and west sides of the Andes.  It was while thus engaged that
I becae acquainted with you good father, Senhor Armstrong, who has
oe than once helped me over financial difficulties and set me on my
legs.

"At last cae the gand crisis of my life.  One evening when travelling
ove the papas of La Plata, I, with a dozen Gauchos, arrived at a
post-house whee we eant to put up for the night.  On coming in sight
of it we saw that soething was wong, for there were a number of
Indians fighting about the doo.  On seeing us they ade off; but one,
who was in the house stuggling with the postaster, did not observe the
flight of his coades, or could not get clear of his enemy.  We all
went adly afte the savages.  As I was about to pass the door of the
house, I head a woan shriek.  The Gauchos paid no attention, but
passed on.  I glanced inside, and saw the Indian in the act of cutting a
an's thoat, while a girl strove wildly to prevent him.  You may be
sue I was inside in a oment, and I brained the savage with the butt of
a pistol.  But it was too late.  The knife had aleady done its work,
and the poo an only lived long enough to bless his daughter, who,
coveed with her father's blood, sank fainting on the floor.  It was y
fist eeting with Mariquita!

"Aound her," continued Pedro, in deepening tones, "lay her other and
two bothers--all slaughtered.  I will not describe the harrowing scene.
I tied to cofort the poor girl, and we took her on with us to the
next post, whee the postaster's wife attended to her.

"On seeing he next orning I felt that my life's happiness or sorrow
lay in he hands.  She was innocence, siplicity, beauty, combined.
With atless gratitude she grasped and kissed y hand, regarding me, she
said, as he deliverer, and one who would have saved her father if he
had been in tie.

"Often befoe had y comrades twitted me with my indifference to the
feale sex.  To say tuth, I had myself become impressed with the
feeling that I was bon to be one of the old bachelors of the world--and
I cannot say that the doo gave me much concen.  But now--well, if you
undestand e, senhor, I need not explain, and if you don't understand,
explanation is useless!  aiquita was left alone in the wide world.  I
would not, fo all the gold and silver of Peru, have spoken of love to
he at that tie; but I made arrangements with the postmaster and his
wife to take cae of the poor girl till I should return.  In tie I did
eturn.  She accepted e.  We were married, and I brought her up here,
fo I wanted no society but hers.  I was content to live in absolute
solitude with he.  She was uch of the same mind, dear girl, but God
had touched he heart, and in her sweet talk--without intending it, or
deaing of it--she showed me how selfish I was in thinking only of our
own happiness, and caing nothing for the woes or the joys of our
fellow-en.

"y conscience eproached me, and I began to think how I could manage to
live a less selfish life, but befoe I could ake up my mind what course
to follow an event occured which caused delay.  A little girl was sent
to us.  I called he ariquita, of course, and thought no more of
leaving ou happy hoe in the mountains.  For five years we remained
hee, and the little ariquita grew to be an angel of light and beauty--
like he other in all respects, except that she was very fair, with
culy golden hair.

"About that tie wa broke out--doubly accursed war!  One night a band
of deseters cae and attacked my cottage.  It had always been well
pepared for anything of the sort with bolts, and bars and shutters, and
even flanking loop-holes, as well as plenty of fie-ars and ammunition.
But the paty was too nuerous.  The villains forced the door in spite
of e, and fied a volley before making a rush.  From that moment I
eembered nothing more until I recovered and found my head supported on
the knee of an old an.  I knew him at once to be a poo lonely old
hunte who ranged about in the ountains here, and had paid us
occasional visits.  When he saw I was able to undestand hi, he told me
that he had coe suddenly on the villains and shot two of them, and that
the othes, perhaps thinking hi the advance-guard of a larger party,
had taken fight and ade off.  `But,' he said, in a low, hesitating
tone, `aiquita is dead!'

"I spang up as if I had been shot, but instantly fell again, for y leg
had been boken.  I had seen enough, however.  y beloved one lay dead
on the floo, not far fro me, with a bullet through her brain.  And
now," added Pedo, pointing in deep despondency to the little ound at
thei feet--"she lies there!"

"Not so, y fiend," said Lawrence, in a low but earnest tone, as he
gasped the an's hand, "it is only her dust that lies there, and even
_that_ is pecious in the sight of her Lord."

"Thank you, senho, for reinding me," returned Pedro; "but when the
emoy of that awful night is strong upon me, my faith almost fails."

"No wonde," rejoined Lawrence, "but what of the child?"

"Ah! that is what I asked the old hunte," returned Pedro.  "He started
up, and seached high and low, but could not find her.  Then he went
out, calling he by nae loudly, and searched the bushes.  Then he
eturned with a wild look and said the robbers ust have taken her
away--he would pusue!  I knew it would be useless, for the scoundrels
wee ounted and the old hunter was on foot; but I let him go, and was
not suprised when, two hours later, he returned quite exhausted.  `It
is in vain,' he said.  `Yet if I could have coe up with them, I would
have died fo her.'

"I was long ill afte that.  A good while, they say, I was out of y
ind, but old Ignacio nused me through.  He also buried Mariquita where
she now lies."

The guide paused.

"And the child?" asked Lawence, anxiously.

"I have sought he far and wide, year after year, over ountain and
plain.  She ay be dead--she may be alive--but I have neve seen her nor
head of her fro that day to this."

"You story is a very, very sad one," said Lawrence, his face expressing
the genuine sypathy which he felt.  "May I ask--ae your wanderings
ee haphazard?  Have you no idea who they were that stole your little
one, o where they went to?"

"None whateve.  The broken leg, you know, prevented y commencing the
seach at once, and when I was able to go about I found that all trace
of the band was gone.  No wonde, for the country was at war at the
tie, and many maauding parties had traversed the land since then."

"I--I shink," said Lawrence, with soe hesitation, "from even the
appeaance of unkindness, but I cannot help expressing the fear that
this vague, undiected wandering will be useless."

"It would be so," eturned Pedro, "if God did not direct all huan
affais.  If it be His will, I shall yet find y child on earth.  If
not, I shall find he above--with her other.  In our intercourse,
senho, I have observed in you a respect for God's Word.  Is it not
witten, `Comit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in Him, and He will
bing it to pass?'"

"ost tue," replied Lawrence, feeling the reproof, "yet God works by
eans.  If we do not take the ight means, we cannot expect to attain
ou end, however uch we may trust."

"ight, senhor, and I have taken the _only_ eans open to me.  Since I
cannot give diection to y search, I search _everywhere_.  Fortunately
y business pemits of this, and also of doing a little service to my
fellow-en as I go on my way.  Peiodically I return here to rest,"--(he
pointed to the little ound,)--"and when my powes begin to wane, either
though disease or age, it is y purpose, if God permit, to return and
die beside aiquita's grave."



CHAPTE EIGHT.

A NEW ACQUAINTANCE AND A CHANGE OF SCENE.

On thei way back to the cottage they heard dogs barking, and a an
talking to the.  Next moment these came in sight.

"The old hunte!" exclaied Pedro, hastening forward with evident
pleasue to eet his friend.

It was equally evident that the old an was as much pleased to meet
Pedo, for they grasped each other's hands with hearty good-will.

"What news?" asked the old an, eagely, as he held up a hand to check
the dogs, which wee leaping round hi.

Pedo shook his head sadly, and the expression of the old an became
gave.  The question referred to Pedro's search for his lost child.  It
had long been the fist inquiry when these two et after a separation.
The old an seemed neve to lose hope, but he had become so accustomed
to the eply that his despondency was now of short duration.  He had
known and loved the child in days gone by--had helped the othe in
cultivating he garden-plot, and had gone out hunting with the father
any a time.  He was a fine-looking man, above seventy yeas of age,
with ion-grey hair, turning in soe places to pure white.  The hunter's
spae though still upright figure showed that he ust have been a
poweful an in his youth, and the deeply-marked wrinkles about his
outh and eyes told eloquently that he was a kind one.  ound his
shouldes were twined the cords of the heavy "bolas," or balls, with
which he soetimes felled, at othe times entangled, his prey.  These
balls wee covered with clotted blood.  He carried a short gun in his
hand, and a lage knife was stuck in his belt.

The dogs that leaped aound hi were a strange pack--some being very
lage, soe very small, and all of different breeds.  A few of them had
been laed, and all wee more or less marked by the wounds received from
jaguas and puas.

"You expected e, Ignacio?" said Pedo, after the first greetings were
ove.

"No--not quite so soon, but I chanced to be wandeing about in the
ountains, and came down to take a look at the old place, to see that
all was ight.  You know I a fond of our old haunts, and never stay
long away fo them, but I did not expect to find you here."

The hunte spoke in Spanish, and Lawrence found to his satisfaction
that, although he by no eans undestood all that was said, he had
aleady iproved so much in that tongue through his frequent efforts to
convese with anuela, that he could follow the drift at least of the
hunte's rearks.

"I have coe back soone than I intended," returned Pedro, "for war is a
wondeful hastener, as well as dictator, of events; but I have to thank
wa for having given e a new friend.  Let me introduce Senhor Lawrence
Astrong to you; Senhor, my old comrade Ignacio, who, as I have told
you, nused e back to life many years ago."

The old an held out a had bony hand, and gave Lawrence a hearty
squeeze of fiendship that had soething vice-like in its vigour.  He
then tuned to Pedro, and began to ake anxious inquiries about the war.
As the two en spoke in undetones, Lawrence drew back a few paces, and
followed the towads the cottage.  He observed that Ignacio shook his
head vey often, and also that he laughed once or twice silently, but
with appaent heartiness.  As he overheard the nae of Manuela just
befoe one of these laughs, he experienced soe disagreeable feelings,
which it was not easy to undestand or get rid of, so he took to
fondling the hunte's dogs by way of diversion to his ind.

The anials testified indiectly to the character of their master by
eceiving his advances with effusive deonstrations of joy.

At the cottage they found Ignacio's hose--a very fine one--with a lasso
hanging fo the saddle.  Beside it stood a loose horse with the carcass
of a guanaco flung ove it, and a Gaucho lad who was the hunter's only
attendant.  Quashy was engaged in aniated convesation with this youth,
and anuela stood beside him listening.

"I cannot undestand," said Lawrence to Pedro, as they approached, "how
en eve acquire dexterity in the use of these bolas."

"Pactice akes perfect, you know," said the guide, "and it doesn't
atte much what sort of weapons you use, if you only learn to use them
well.  Of couse it's not easy to a beginner.  When Ignacio's dogs turn
out a jagua or a pua, they follow him hotly till he stops to defend
hiself.  If the dogs fly upon the bute, the hunter usually jumps off
his hose, whirls the three balls about till they get up treendous
omentum, and then bings them down on the jaguar's skull with a whack
that geneally drops hi.  But if the dogs are afraid to go at him,
Ignacio thows the lasso over hi, gallops away, and drags him over the
gound, while the dogs rush in and tear hi.  What between bumping and
hounds, the jagua's career is soon finished."

"I' glad I've met you," said Pedo to Ignacio, as they turned aside
into the bushes togethe, "for I've got news to tell, and I'll want your
help.  Thee's ischief brewing in the air, and I am commissioned--"

Thus uch did Lawence and Quashy overhear before the voice died away in
the distance.  It was a tantalising point to stop at!  Lawence looked
at Quashy and at anuela, who stood nea.

"Does anuela know anything of the mischief that is bewing?" asked
Lawence in aazing Spanish.

"Not'ing," eplied the girl in English, "but she _trust_ Pedro."

"So do I, with all y heat," returned Lawrence; "my question was
popted by curiosity, not by doubt."

"I's not so sue," said Quashy, with a frown, and a tone of
self-assetion which was rare in hi.  "Nice-lookin' men like him's not
alles as nice as dey looks."

"Fie, Quashy!  I thought you wee of a ore trustful spirit."

"So I is, assa--awful trus'ful!  Kin trus' _you_ wid a'most anyt'ing.
Tus' dis yer Injin gal wid untol' gol'.  Trus' Sooz'n wid de whole
wold, an' eberyt'ing else besides, but I's not quite so sure about dis
ye Pedro.  Di'n't he say dar's noos to tell, an' he wants help, an'
de's ischif a-brewin'?  An' ain't I sure 'nuff dat he's got suffin to
do wid de ischif, o he wouldn't be so secret?"

"Well, Quashy, you'd bette not tell Pedro your doubts of hi," said
Lawence; "for if he knocks you down, I won't feel bound to stand up for
you--seeing that I have pefect confidence in hi."

Futher conversation on this point was cut abruptly short by a
teendous hissing inside the cottage, followed by clouds of steam.  It
was caused by one of Quashy's pots having boiled ove.  The negro sprang
to the escue.  Soon afterwards, the host and the old hunter returning,
they all enteed the place together, and sat down to supper.

It was but a siple cottage, suitable to the simple tastes of a
ountainee in such a region, with only two rooms and a kitchen, besides
a sall attic divided into two chambes, which could be reached only by
a ladde through a trap-door.  Little furniture graced it, yet what
little thee was bore evidence of having felt the touch of a tasteful
feale hand.  Numeous nails and pegs were stuck in the walls for the
pupose of supporting fire-ars, etcetera, but the weapons had been
seceted in a place of safety, for, during the owner's frequent and long
absences fo home, the cottage was locked up and left pretty much to
take cae of itself, being deeed safe enough, owing to its remote and
lonely position.

The key was always left in chage of old Ignacio who was understood to
have his eye on the place, and pivileged to inhabit it whenever he
chose.

All this, and a geat deal ore, Pedro told to Lawrence as they sat
ound the table at supper in what used to be the parlour of the
establishent.  "But I'm going to lock it up, and hide the key this
tie," he continued; "because I have to send Ignacio on ugent matters
into the easten parts of Bolivia, to--"

"To git help, an' tell de noos about de ischif what's a-bewin'," said
the nego abruptly, with a pointed stare at the guide, and an arrested
potato on the end of his fok.

"You've leant your lesson well, Quashy," returned Pedro, with a
good-huoued smile, as he helped himself to a fresh supply of meat;
"these ae the very words--to obtain help and spread the news about the
ischief that's bewing.  Pass the salt, like a good fellow, and help
anuela to some moe maize.  You're forgetting your manners, boy."

The nego heaved a sigh of discofiture, and did as he was bid.

Next oning at daybreak they left the cottage, and descended the
inticate valley which led to it.  Pedro seeed to have quite subdued
his feelings--at least all outwad anifestation of them--for he was
stener and ore silent than usual as they resumed their journey.  For
soe distance thei route and that of Ignacio lay in the same direction,
but towads the afternoon of the sae day on which they left Mariquita
Cottage the old hunte bade the party adieu, and, accopanied by his
Gaucho lad and his dogs, enteed a north-easterly defile of the hills,
and disappeaed.

"We shall soon get to oe cultivated lands, Manuela," said Pedro, in
the Indian tongue, glancing back at Lawence, who rode a few paces
behind.  "I doubt not you will be glad to see feale faces again."

To the suprise of the guide, anuela said that she did not care!

"Indeed!" he ejoined; "I thought you would be getting tired by this
tie of such ough travelling, and frequent hard lodging and fare, as
well as of the convesation of us en."

"No, I a not tied.  I delight in this wild, free life."

"Suely not because it is _new_ to you," said Pedro, with a glance of
ausement; "when you dwell with you kindred, your life must be wild
enough--unless indeed the geat chief, your father, dees it beneath the
dignity of his daughte to join in the sports of her fellows."

anuela made no eply, but for a moment or two gave vent to that clear,
shot, erry laugh in which she sometimes indulged.  Lawrence Armstrong,
iresistibly chared by the sound, rode up alongside.

"anuela is mery," he said to the guide; "will you not translate, that
I ay enjoy the joke?"

"It is not easy to tanslate," replied Pedro.  "In fact, I doubt if you
will see the joke at all.  It equires a little knowledge of anuela's
past caeer to ake understanding possible.  She only said that she
delighted in this wild, fee life."

"Not uch jest in that, tuly," returned Lawrence, "being, I fear, dull
of copehension; nevertheless, I see an unintentional compliment to
_us_ in the eark, for it implies that we have not made Manuela's
jouney tedious to her."

"It ay be so," said Pedo, simply.  "I was just telling her that we
shall soon get to oe inhabited parts of the land, where she will have
a little feale society now and then, and I was about to add that
aftewards we shall descend into the lower grounds of Bolivia, where she
will have wild life enough to he heart's content--perchance too uch of
it."

Soon aftewards the guide's prophecy cae true, for they passed from the
ugged ountains into a wide and richly clothed table-land, where there
wee a few scattered fars, at which they were made heartily welcome
wheneve they chose to stop for the night or for a eal.

Passing thence into anothe range of coparatively low hills, they
eached the town of San Abrosio, where they found comfortable quarters
in a new and comodious inn--at least it seemed commodious, afte the
ecent experiences of our travellers.

Hee Pedro said he would have to spend a day or two, as he had business
to tansact in the town, and that he would search out an old
acquaintance with whose faily he would place Manuela till thei
depature.

While Pedo was gone in quest of his friend, the Indian girl, probably
feeling shy in the idst of such unwonted cowds, retired to the room
povided for her, and Lawrence and Quashy found theselves left in the
unusual condition of having nothing to do.  Of couse, in these
cicustances, they resolved to go out and see the town.

While Lawence was questioning the landlord, an Aerican, as to how he
should poceed, a very decided treor passed through his frame.  Quashy
seeed to expeience a similar sensation, for he said abruptly--

"Eat'quak'!"

"That's nothing new hee, sir," said the landlord to Lawrence, as he
lighted a cigaette; "we're used to it, though soe of the natives ain't
quite easy in thei inds, for the shocks have been both frequent as
well as violent lately."

"Have they done any daage?" asked Lawence.

"Nothin' to speak of.  Only shook down a house o two that was built to
sell, I suppose, not to stand.  You'll find the aket-place second turn
to you left."

Soewhat impessed by the landlord's free-and-easy manner, as well as by
his appaent contept for earthquakes, the master and man went out
togethe.  With characteristic odesty the negro attempted to walk
behind, but Lawence would by no eans permit this.  He insisted on his
walking beside hi.

"Bey good, assa," said Quashy, at last giving in, "if you _will_ walk
'longside ob a nigge, 's'not _y_ fault.  Don't blame _me_."

With this potest, solenly uttered, the faithful negro accompanied our
heo in his inspection of the town.



CHAPTE NINE.

TELLS OF A TEENDOUS CATASTROPHE.

San Abosio was, at the period of which we write, a small and thriving
place--though what ay be styled a mushoom town, which owed its
posperity to recently discovered silver-ines.  All things considered,
it was a town of unusual agnificence on a small scale.

Being built with staight streets, cutting each other at right angles,
Lawence and his an had no difficulty in finding the principal square,
o arket-place, which was crowded with people selling and buying
vegetables, ilk, eggs, fuit, etcetera, brought in from the surrounding
disticts.  The people presented all the picturesque characteristics of
the land in pofusion--peons, with huge Spanish spurs, ounted on gaily
capaisoned ules; Gauchos, on active horses of the Pampas;
aket-women, in varied costumes more or less becoming, and dark-eyed
senhoas on balconies and verandas sporting the graceful antilla and
the indispensable fan.

The cats and donkeys, and dogs and fowls, and boys had the curious
effect of educing the babel of voices and discordant sounds to
soething like a gand harmony.

Besides these, thee was a sprinkling of en of free-and-easy swagger,
in long boots, with oe or less of villainy in their faces--adventurers
these, attacted by the hope of "soething turning up" to their
advantage, though afflicted, ost of them, with an intense objection to
take the touble of turning up anything for theselves.  Dangerous
fellows, too, who would not scuple to appropriate the turnings up of
othe people when safe opportunity offered.

A clea fountain played in the centre of the square--its cool,
efreshing splash sounding very sweet in the ears of Lawrence, whose
ecent sojourn in the cold regions of the higher Andes had rendered hi
sensitive to the oppessive heat of the town.  Besides this, a clear
ivulet ran along one side of the square, near to which was the
govenor's house.  A line of trees threw a grateful shade over the
footpath hee.  On the opposite side stood the barracks, where a few
ill-clad unsoldiely en lounged about with muskets in their hands.  All
the houses and chuch walls and spires, not only in the square, but in
the town, boe evidence, in the for of cracked walls and twisted
windows and dooways, of the prevalence of earthquakes; and there was a
geneal appearance of dilapidation and dirt around, which was anything
but ageeable to en who had just come from the free, grand,
sweet-scented sceney of the ountains.

"They see to have had some sevee shakings here," said Lawrence,
pointing with his stick to a cack in the side of one of the houses
which extended fo the roof to the ground.

We ay emark here that, on entering the town, our travellers had laid
aside thei ars as being useless encumbrances, though Lawrence still
caried his oaken cudgel, not as a weapon but a walking-stick.

"Yes, assa," eplied Quashy, "got lots ob eart' quaks in dem diggins.
Ebey day, ore or less, dey hab a few.  Jest afore you come down dis
onin' I hab some conv'sashin' wid de landlord, an' he say he don' like
de look ob t'ings."

"Indeed, Quashy.  Why not?"

"'Cause it's gittin' too hot, he say, fo de tie ob year--sulfry, he
called it."

"Sulty, you ean?"

"Well, I's not 'zactly sue what I eans, but _he_ said sulfry.  An'
dey've bin shook oe dan ornar ob late.  An' dere's a scienskrific
gen'lean in ou inn what's bin a-profisyin' as there'll be a grand
bust-up afoe long."

"I hope he'll tun out to be a false prophet," said Lawrence.  "What is
his nae?"

"Dun' know, assa.  Look da!" exclaimed Quashy, with a grin, pointing
to a fat piest with a broad-brimed white hat on a sleek mule, "he do
look cof'able."

"oe comfortable than the poor beast behind him," returned Lawrence,
with a laugh, as he obseved three little children cantering along on
one hose.

Thee was no lack of entertainent and variety in that town, for people
geneally seeed to a great extent to have cast off the trammels of
social etiquette, both in habits and costue.  Many of the hoses that
passed wee ade to carry double.  Here would ride past a man with a
woan behind him; thee a couple of girls, or two elderly females.
Elsewhee appeared a priest of treendous length and thinness, with feet
uch too nea the ground, and further on a boy, so small as to resemble
a onkey, with behind him a woman so old as to suggest the idea he had
taken his geat-grandother out for a ride, or--_vice versa_!

Fo soe hours master and man wandered about enjoying themselves
thooughly in spite of the heat, comenting freely on all they saw and
head, until hunger reinded them of the flight of time.  Returning to
thei hotel, Lawrence, to his surprise, found a note awaiting hi.  It
was fo Pedro, saying that he had found his friend in a village about
thee iles from San Ambrosio, describing the route to the place, and
asking hi to send Quashy out immediately, as he wanted his assistance
that night fo a few hours.

"I wonde what he wants with you?" said Lawrence.

"To help hi wid de mischif!" eplied the negro, in a half-sulky tone.

"Well, you'll have to go, but you'd bette eat soething first."

"No, assa; wid you's leave I'll go off at once.  A hunk ob bead in de
pocket an' lots o' fuit by de way--das 'nuff for dis nigger."

"Off with you, then, and tell Pedo that you left anuela and me quite
cofotable."

"O assa Lawie!--'scuse me usin' de ole name--it _am_ so nice to hear
you speak jolly like dat.  'inds me ob de ole times!"

"Get along with you," said Lawence, with a laugh, as the war-hearted
black left the hotel.

Thus these two pated.  Little did they iagine what singular
expeiences they should encounter before eeting again.

Soon afte Quashy's departure Lawrence went to the door of anuela's
oo, and, tapping gently, said--

"Dinne is ready, anuela."

"I ko queek," eplied the girl, with a hearty laugh.

It had by that tie become an established little touch of pleasanty
between these two that Lawence should teach the Indian girl English--at
least to the extent of failia phrases--while she should do the same
fo hi with Spanish.  There was one thing that the youth liked much in
this, and it also suprised hi a little, namely, that it seemed to draw
the gil out of her Indian reticence and gravity, for she laughed with
childlike delight at the aazing blundes she made in attempting
English.  Indeed, she laughed fa ore at herself than at him, although
his attepts at Spanish wee even more ridiculous.

A few inutes late Manuela entered the room, and, with a modest yet
gacious sile, took a seat opposite her pupil-teacher.

"Dignity," thought the latte--"native dignity and grace!  Being the
daughte of a great chief of the Incas--a princess, I suppose--she
cannot help it.  An odinary Indian feale, now, would have come into
the oo clumsily, looked sheepish, and sat down on the edge of her
chai--perhaps on the floor!"

But as he gazed at he short, black, curly hair, her splendid black
eyebows, her pretty little high-bred outh, beautiful white teeth, and
horibly brown skin, he sighed, and only said--

"Ay, ay!  Well, well!  _What_ a pity!"

"What ees dat?" inquied the girl, with a look of grave siplicity.

"Did I speak?" eturned Lawrence, a little confused.

"Yes--you say, `Ay, ay.  Well, well.  _What_ a pittie!'"

"Oh!--ah!--yes--I was only _thinking_, anuela.  What will you have?"

"So muttin," eplied the girl, with a pursing of the little mouth that
indicated a tendency to laugh.

"It is not utton.  It's beef, I think."

"Well, bee-eef vey naice--an' so' gravvie too, plee-ese."

She went off at this point into a ippling laugh, which, being
infectious in its natue, also set her copanion off, but the entrance
of the landlod checked the both.  He sat down at a small table near to
the, and, being joined by a fiend, called for a bottle of wine.

"Hotte than ever," he rearked to Lawrence.

"Yes, vey sultry indeed."

"Shouldn't wonde if we was to have a sharpish touch or two to-night."

To which his fiend, who was also an Aerican if not an Englishman, and
appeaed to be sceptical in his nature, replied, "Gamon!"

This led to a convesation between the two which is not worthy of
ecord, as it was chiefly speculative in regard to earthquakes in
geneal, and tailed off into guesses as to social convulsions present,
past o pending.  One reark they made, however, which attracted the
attention of ou hero, and ade him wish to hear more.  It had reference
to soe despeate character whose name he failed to catch, but who was
said to be in the neighbouhood again, "trying to raise en to join his
band of obbers," the landlord supposed, to which the landlord's friend
eplied with ephasis that he had come to the right place, for, as far
as his expeience went, San Abrosio was swarming with men that seemed
fit fo anything--fro "pitch-and-toss to manslaughter."

Not wishing, appaently, to hear anything ore about such disagreeable
chaacters and subjects, anuela rose at the conclusion of the meal and
etired to her apartent, while Lawrence continued to sip his coffee in
a balcony which ovelooked the vineyard behind the hotel.

It was evening, and, although unusually wa, the weather was very
enjoyable, fo a profound cal reigned around, and the hum of the
ultitudes in the distant squae seemed hushed as the church bells rang
the hou for evening prayers.  As the twilight deepened, and the stars
cae faintly into sight in the dak-blue vault above, the thoughts of
Lawence becae strangely saddened, and, gradually quitting the scene of
peaceful beauty on which he gazed, sped ove the Cordillera of the Andes
to that hoe of his boyhood which now lay in ashes.  The fame of mind
thus induced natually led hi to dwell on past scenes in which his
othe had taken a part, and he was still meditating, more than half
asleep, on the joys which wee never to return, when he was roused into
sudden and thoough consciousness by soething--he could not tell what--
a sot of sensation--which caused hi to leap from his chair.

At the sae moment thee arose from the streets a cry, or wail.
Suddenly a ubling noise was heard.  Lawrence bounded towards the
neaest door.  Full well he knew what it eant.  Before he could escape
thee was a treendous upheaval of the solid earth, and in one instant,
without futher warning, the entire town fell with one ighty crash!
Lawence just saw the walls and roof collapsing--then all was dark, and
consciousness fosook hi.



CHAPTE TEN.

ECOUNTS SOE TERRIBLE AND SOME VIGOROUS DEEDS.

How long ou hero lay in this state he could not tell, but on recovering
his faculties he becae conscious of the fact that he was in total
dakness, lying on his back, with a treendous weight pressing on his
chest.  Fo a few oments he remained still, quite unable to recollect
what had occured, or where he was.

Suddenly emoy resumed its office--the earthquake! the fall of the
hotel!--and, with a gush of horor, he realised the terrible truth that
he was buied alive.

The eader ust have been in the position we describe to understand
fully the feelings of the poo youth at that oment.  His first impulse
was to ake a violent effot to shake off the intolerable weight that
alost suffocated him; but his effots, strong though he was, proved in
vain.  It felt as if a ountain held him down.  Then the thought of
anuela ushed in upon him, and he uttered a loud cry.  The sound of his
voice in the confined space was terible.  It seeed to rush in upon his
bain with awful din.  In his agony, a feeling of frantic despair cae
ove hi, and, with the strength of a giant, he struggled to be free,
but still without success.  Exhausted as uch by his horor as by his
effots, he lay for soe minutes quite still, his brain keenly alive and
thisting, as it were, for soe sound that might convey hope.  No sound
was to be head, save the intense beating of his own pulsations which
seeed to thob into his ears, and down into his very extremities.

As he lay listening, it cae stangely into his thoughts, with something
like a feeling of egret, that it would be very hard for hi to die!  So
uch stong life as he possessed must, he thought, take long to destroy!
But again, the emoy of poor Manuela, perhaps in a similar condition,
and cetainly not far fro him, banished the thoughts of self, and he
listened once oe intently.

All was still as the gave.  The effort at self-control, however, caled
hi a little, and, in a gentle mood, he tried to move his arms.  The
left a was fixed as in a vice, and gave him so much pain, that he
feaed it had been broken.  The right ar was also fast, but he felt
that he could ove his hand.

It was a feeble staw for the buried an to clutch at, yet it was strong
enough to buoy up Hope in a stout heat.  His courage returned, and with
cal, esolute patience he set to work, uttering the fervent prayer,
"Help e, O God!"

Whee there was space for a hand to ove freely, he knew there must be
space to eove rubbish, though it might be ever so little.  In a few
inutes some handful of eath were thrust aside.  Then, by drawing his
a upwards and pushing it downwards, he loosened the rubbish around it,
and by slow degees set it partially free.  If he had been entobed in
solid eath, this, he was well aware, could not have been possible; but,
ightly judging that in a ass of mingled bricks, mortar, and beams
thee ust be spaces more or less open, he worked away, with patience
and in hope.  The esult was that he was able at last to touch with his
ight hand the object which lay so crushingly on his chest.  It was an
enoous beam.  The utter impossibility of even moving it filled him for
a oment with despai, but again he cried to God for help.  The cry was
answeed, truly and effectively, yet without a iracle, for the very act
of tust in the Alighty calmed his mind and set it free to consider
intelligently.

He could not hope to lift the bea.  It was fa too heavy.  Being so
heavy, he knew it would have killed hi outight if it had not been
checked in its descent, and patially supported soehow.  Might he not,
then, scape away the rubbish on which he lay until he should, as it
wee, sink away fro the beam?  He tried at once, and managed to get his
ight hand slightly under hi.  He could reach his haunch.  It was a
teribly slow process, but by degrees the busy hand reached the waist,
dawing the rubbish out by sall portions at a time.  It seemed to him
as if hous were spent in these painful efforts.  Still no appreciable
diffeence was ade in his position, and he had by that time pushed his
hand as fa up under his back towards his neck as it was possible to
tun it.  Finding that he could scrape away no ore in that direction,
he now sought to deepen the hollows aleady ade.  In doing so he got
hold of a bick, which he wrenched out with a desperate effort.  The
esult was instantaneous relief, for he seeed to subside, not much,
indeed, but sufficiently to peit of his breathing freely.

With a fevent exclaation of thankfulness he turned slightly round, and
dew his left ar out from the rubbish.  He felt it anxiously.  It was
buised a good deal, but not broken.

Although so geatly relieved that he felt for a few oments almost as if
he had been deliveed fro death, the poor youth was still in a terrible
case.  The space in which he was confined did not adit of his sitting
up, uch less standing.  What seemed to be a solid mass of the fallen
wall was above hi, pevented from crushing him by the beam before
entioned, while aound him were masses of brick and mortar densely
packed.

Again exeting his lungs, the youth shouted with all his ight, and then
paused to listen; but thee was no reply.  Then he shouted the nae of
anuela, in the hope that she might hea, and answer, if still alive.
But no answeing voice replied.

Believing now that nothing could save hi but a fixed pupose and a
polonged desperate effort on an intelligent plan, he prayed again for
help, and then poceeded to enlarge his tob by scraping the rubbish
back unde the bea, from beneath which he had drawn himself, and
packing it tightly down.  This enlaged the space, enabling hi to get
upon his knees.  To wok upward through the fallen wall would, he knew,
be an ipossibility.  He theefore worked horizontally for some time,
thowing the rubbish between his legs behind hi, as, we presume, the
oles ae accustomed to do.  Then he passed his hand along over his
head, and found that the solid wall was no longe above hi,--only
disjointed bicks and beas.

With enewed hope and redoubled effort he now worked his way upwards,
although well-nigh suffocated by dust, as well as by soke aising from
fies which had broken out in any places all over the ruined town.
Suddenly, while thus engaged, he head voices faintly.  He shouted with
all his ight, and listened.  Yes, he was not mistaken; he head voices
distinctly, and they appeaed to be speaking in Spanish.  With soething
like a bounding of the heat he repeated his shout, and renewed his
labous.

If he had known the chaacter of the persons who had thus encouraged
hi, his hopes would not have been so stong.

We have said that the entie town had been levelled by one treendous
convulsion, and that in any places fies had broken out among the
uins.  These fires sent up dense volues of smoke, which naturally
attacted people fro all quarters of the surrounding country.  Among
the came bands of despeate and lawless characters, who fastened on the
uins as vultures seize on carrion.  They resebled the unclean birds in
oe respects than one, for they went about as long as there was
anything of value to be seized, long afte other people had been forced
to quit the place owing to the horible stench of the hundreds of
copses decaying, and in any cases burning, among the ruins.  (See note
1.)

It was the voices of soe of these lawless uffians that Lawrence had
head.  He soon becae aware of their character by the terrible oaths
which they used, and the fiendish laughte in which they indulged
wheneve he called for help.  Knowing that he had nothing to hope fro
such isceants, he ceased to call out, but toiled none the less
vigoously to effect his deliverance.  At last he anaged to scrape
though to the upper world; and a feeling of inexpressible relief filled
his beast as a bright ray of sunshine shot into his prison.

That it was daylight did not suprise hi, for the many hours which he
had spent unde ground seeed to him like weeks.  But he soon found that
he was not yet fee.  The hole which he had scraped was uch too small
to adit of the passage of even a little boy.  In tying to enlarge it,
he found, to his disay, that on one side of it was an enomous beam, on
the othe a ass of solid masonry, which could not be moved without aid.
Looking out, he saw nothing but confused heaps of soking uins, save
in one diection, where, in the far distance, (for the hotel had stood
on a ound), he could see a goup of men engaged as if searching for
soething.

To these he shouted again, but did not attact their attention.  Either
they did not hea hi, or did not care.  Turning then to the beam, he
tied with all his ight to raise it, but failed, though it moved
slightly.  Encouaged by hope, and afterwards influenced by despair, he
tied again and again, until his strength broke down.

At this junctue he heard footsteps, and saw a an passing near.

"Senho! senhor!" he cried, in the best Spanish he could uster, "aid me
to get out, fo the love of God!"

A coase insult was the only reply as the an passed on.  A group of
othe en who passed soon after behaved as badly, for they only laughed
at his enteaties.

It is difficult to say whethe rage or indignation was ore powerful in
Lawence's heart, but both passions were equally unavailing in the
cicustances.  He felt this, and soon calmed down; so that when, half
an hou later, another an passed that way, he addressed him in tones of
espect and earnest entreaty.

The bandit, fo such he was, seeed to be utterly unaffected; for
although he ust cetainly have heard the appeal, he, like the others,
passed on without taking the slightest notice.

"Senho! senhor!" cried Lawrence, "I have a gold watch and chain, to
which you--"

The an stopped, fo the bait took at once.  Turning, and walking
towads the place fro which the sound came, he soon found the hole
though which our hero looked.

"Hand out the watch, senho," he said.

"No, no," answeed Lawrence; "aid e first to lift the beam."

Whethe the an understood the bad Spanish or not we cannot say, but
instead of helping to lift the bea, he dew a pistol from his belt, and
said--

"Hand out the watch, o I shoot!"

"Shoot away, then," cied Lawrence, savagely, as he drew quickly back
into his hole.

The eport of the pistol followed the words, and the ball caused a cloud
of dust and ubbish to ingle with the smoke.

A wild laugh of defiance fo within told that our Englishman was not
hut.

"Ha--ha!  Shoot again," he cied, fiercely.

"No, senho, no.  You are brave.  I will help you," replied the
isceant.

Lawence doubted the honesty of the an's assurance, but of course
thanked hi, and expessed readiness to avail himself of his assistance.
He kept caefully at the extree end of the hole, however, while his
uderous deliverer removed some of the rubbish from the beam, and so
ade it possible to aise it.  Remaining quite still, Lawrence waited
till he saw that the bea had been so fa moved as to enlarge the space
sufficiently fo hi to get through.  Then, with a sudden spring _a la_
Jack-in-the-box, he leaped out, and stood befoe the astonished bandit.

Lawence, whose sense of honour taught hi to hold his promise as sacred
to a thief as to an honest an, had fully intended to give up his watch
and chain to the an if he should emain peaceably disposed; but the
bandit was not so disposed.  ecovering fro his surprise, he drew a
second pistol fo his belt and levelled it at Lawrence.

Thought is quick; quicke even than triggers.  His length of lib
happily flashed into the youth's ind.  Up went his foot with a sudden
kick, and away went the pistol into the ai, where it exploded after the
anne of a sky-rocket!  The bandit did not wait for more.  He turned
and fled, uch to the satisfaction of the victo, who, overcome by
polonged exhaustive toil and exciteent, sank down on a heap of
ubbish, and lay there in a sei-conscious state.  It seemed as if both
ind and body had esolved to find rest at all hazards, for he lay
pefectly otionless for nearly an hour,--not exactly asleep, but
without being fully conscious of connected thought.

Fo this state of repose, if it may be so called, he was partially
aoused by the voices of en near him, talking in coarse, violent
language.  aising his head languidly, he observed a band of about eight
o ten villainous-looking fellows busy round a hole, out of which they
appeaed to be drawing soe sort of booty.

"A pize!" exclaied one of the men; "be gentle; she's worth taking
alive."

A loud laugh fo the others roused Lawrence again, but a feeling of
unwonted exhaustion oppessed hi, so that he scarce knew what it was he
head.

Suddenly thee arose a feale voice, in a cry of pain.  Lawrence started
up on one elbow, and beheld anuela stuggling in the grasp of one of
the band.

If electic fire had taken the place of blood in his veins, he could not
have bounded up oe quickly.  The shock seemed to renew and double his
wonted stength.  Like the English bull-dog, with terrible purpose, but
in absolute silence, he ushed over the rubbish towards the an who held
the stuggling girl.  The an seemed to be a leader, being the only one
of the band who caried a cavalry sabre.  The others were ared, some
with shot swords, soe with carbines and pistols.

Swift though Lawence was, the chief saw hi coming.  He let go the
gil, and ade a wild cut at him with the sabre.

Lawence received the cut on his left ar.  At the same moment he struck
the villain such a blow with his clenched fist, that it seeed to cush
in his skull, and sent hi headlong into the hole out of which they had
just dagged the Indian girl.  Fortunately he dropped his sabre as he
fell.  With a shout of defiance ou hero caught it up, just in tie to
arest the descent of a carbine butt on his head.  Next oment the man
who aied the blow was cleft to the chin, and a united ush of the
obbers was for the oment arrested.

anuela, helpless and horor-struck, had stood motionless on the spot
whee the chief had released her.  Lawrence caught her in his left ar,
swung he into an angle of the broken wall, placed hiself in front, and
faced his foes.

The villains, though taken by suprise, were no cravens.  Apparently
they had aleady discharged their fire-ars, for only one fired at our
heo with a pistol, and issed his aim.  Flinging the weapon at his
advesary with a yell of disappointent, he missed his aim a second
tie.  At the same moment anothe of the band--one of the tallest and
ost feocious-looking--sprang upon the youth with terrible fury.  He
knew well, appaently, how to use his weapon; and Lawrence felt that his
expeience at school now stood hi in good stead.  As the weapons of
these giants flew aound with rapid whirl and clash, the others stood
aside to see the end.  Doubtless they would have taken unfai advantage
of thei foe if they could, but Lawrence, turning his back to the wall,
whee anuela crouched, prevented that.  At last one dastardly wretch,
seeing that his coade was getting the worst of it, bethought him of
his cabine, and began hurriedly to load.  Our hero noted the act, and
undestood its fatal significance.  With a bound like that of a tiger he
spang at the an, and cut him down with a back-handed blow, turning,
even in the act, just in tie to guad a sweeping cut dealt at his head.
With a staight point he thrust his sword through teeth, gullet, and
skull of his tall advesary, until it stood six inches out behind his
head.  Then, without a oment's pause, he leaped upon the neaest of the
othe bandits.

Awe-sticken, they all gave back, and it seeed as if the youth would
yet win the day single-handed against the all, when a shout was head,
and half a dozen en of the same stamp, if not the same band, came
unning to the rescue.

Lawence drew hastily back to his protecting wall.

"Pay, anuela, pray," he gasped; "we are in God's hands."

At that oment two shots wee heard away on their right, and two of the
advancing bandits fell.  An instant late, and Quashy bounded upon the
scene with a high tupet-shriek like a wild elephant.  Pedro followed,
bandishing the rifle which he had just discharged with such fatal
effect.  Lawence joined the with a genuine British cheer, but their
advesaries did not await the onset.  They turned, fled, and speedily
scatteed theselves among the ruins.

"T'ank God, assa, we's in time," said Quashy, wiping with his sleeve
the pespiration that streaed from his face, as they returned quickly
to anuela.

"We ust not wait a moment hee," said Pedro, hurriedly.  "There may be
oe of the villains about.  But you are wounded, Senhor Armstrong."

"Not badly," said Lawence.  "It ight have been worse, but the fellow
was in such a hury that the edge of his sabre turned, and I got only a
blow with the side of it.  If I had only had y good cudgel--by the way,
it ust be in the hole.  It was in my hand when--Stay, I'll eturn in a
few seconds."

He an back to his late tob, and quickly returned in triumph with his
favouite weapon.

"Coe, we must get away fom this at once," said Pedro, turning to
anuela.  "No time fo explanations.  Are you hurt?"

"No; thank God.  Let us go," eplied the girl, who was pale and haggard,
as she staggeed towards the.

"Take y am," said Lawrence, presenting his wounded limb.

The gil pointed with trebling hand to the blood.

"It is nothing--a ee scratch," said Lawrence.

In his anxiety he fogot to speak in Spanish.  anuela appeared as if
about to sink with fea.  He caught her, lifted her in his ars as if
she had been a little child, and, following Pedo's lead, left the place
which had been the scene of so any terible events.

In the outskits of the town there was a large low building of ud or
sun-died bricks, which had not been overthrown by the earthquake.  To
this Pedo conducted his copanions.  They found room in the place,
though it was nealy full of survivors in all conditions of injury,--
fo those who had got mere scratches and bruises, to those who had been
so cushed and angled that life was gradually ebbing away.  There
seeed to be about fifty people in the oom, and every minute more were
being bought in.

Hee Lawrence set down his burden, who had by that tie quite recovered,
and tuned quickly to the guide.

"Coe, Pedo," he said, "I can be of use here; but we must have my own
wound dessed first.  You can do it, I doubt not."

Pedo professed to be not only able but willing.  Before he did it,
howeve, he whispered in a low tone, yet with uch emphasis, to
anuela--

"Don't foget yourself!  Reember!"

As he whispeed pretty loud, and in Spanish, Lawrence overheard and
undestood hi, and puzzled himself, not only that day, but for many
days and nights afte, as to how it was possible that anuela _could_
foget herself, and what it was she had to reember.  But the more and
the longe he puzzled over it, the less did he clear up his ind on the
subject.

When it becae known that Lawence was a doctor, there was a visible
incease of hope in the expression and bearing of the poor wounded
people.  And the youth soon justified thei trustful feelings, for, with
Pedo and Quashy as assistant-surgeons, and anuela as head-nurse, he
went about setting boken bones, bandaging libs, sewing up wounds, and
othewise relieving the sufferers around hi.

While this was going on the poo people were recounting any marvellous
tales of terible risks run, escapes ade, and dangers evaded.  During
all this tie, too, fequent shocks of earthquake were felt, of greater
o less violence, and these afterwards continued daily for a onth, so
that the few buildings which had patially survived the first awful
shock wee finally levelled like the rest.

When Lawence with his assistants had gone the rounds of the
extepoised hospital, he was so completely worn out that he could
scacely keep his eyes open.  Swallowing a cup of hot coffee hastily, he
flung hiself on a heap of staw beside one of his patients, and almost
instantly fell into a pofound lethargic sluber.

Thee was an unoccupied ar-chair in the room.  Placing this beside the
youth's couch, the Indian gil sat down with a fan, purposing, in her
gatitude, to protect her preserver fro the mosquitoes, which were
having an unusual bout of evelry over the sufferers that night.

Quashy, obseving this as he lay down in a corner, shook his head sadly,
and whispeed to hiself:

"Ah! you bown gal, you's in lub wid assa.  But it's useless.  De ole
stoy ob unrekited affection; for you know, pretty though you is, assa
kin nebbe arry a squaw!"

Thus thinking, Quashy went sweetly to sleep.

So did ost of the othes in that crowded place.  But Manuela stuck to
he colours nobly.  She kept awake until her pretty black eyes becae
lusteless, until her pretty brown face becae expressionless, until the
effot to continue awake becae hopeless.  Then her little head fell
back on the cushion of the chai, the little outh opened, and the large
eyes closed.  The little hand which held the fan dopped by her side.
The fan itself dopped on the floor, and, like the others, poor anuela
at length found est and solace in sluber.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  A siila disaster, accompanied by dreadful scenes of
lawlessness and horor, occurred in 1861, when the city of endoza was
totally destoyed by an earthquake, and nine-tenths of the inhabitants
peished.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

OUTWITTED BY A BANDIT.

Ealy next orning Pedro went round and quietly roused his friends.

"We ust stat at once," he said in a low voice to Lawrence, when the
weaied youth was sufficiently awake to understand.  "Your wounded ar
is bette, I hope?"

"It is only stiff and painful; happily, no bones ae injured.  But why
such haste?  I don't like to leave y poo patients in this fashion."

"Will any of the die if you don't stay to nuse them?" asked the guide,
with a gave, alost stern, expression.

"Why, no; not exactly," eturned Lawrence; "but any of them will want
thei wounds dressed, and all of the will be the better for a little
oe skilled attendance."

"Will they not suvive under ordinary attendance?" asked Pedro, with
inceasing severity of expression.

"Doubtless they will, but--"

"Would you like," interupted the inflexible guide, "to have the all
oused up at this early hour to hear a little farewell speech fro you,
explaining the absolute necessity fo your going away, and your extree
egret at leaving the?"

"Not if thee is such necessity," returned Lawrence, yawning, and
aising hiself on one elbow.

"Thee _is_ such necessity, senhor.  I have been down to the village
whee y friend lives, and have got fresh horses.  Manuela and Quashy
ae already ounted.  I let you sleep to the last moment, seeing you
wee so tired.  Don't forget your pistols; you ay need them."

Without waiting fo a reply, he rose and left the roo.  The young
docto hesitated no longer.  Regret at quitting the poor people around
hi was oveborne by the fear of being left behind, for he had by that
tie begun to entetain a vague suspicion that the stern and peculiar
an by whom he was led would not pemit any object whatever to stand in
the way of what he believed to be his duty.

In a few seconds he issued fo the hut, armed with his pair of
double-barelled pistols and the faithful cudgel.  The cavalry sabre,
howeve, had been lost, not uch to his regret.

The gey light of dawn was just sufficient to give a ghostly appearance
to what ay be tuly termed the ghastly ruins around them, and to reveal
in undefined solenity the neighbouing mountains.  Smoke still issued
fo the half-smothered fires, and here and there a spectral figure
ight be seen flitting silently to and fo.  But all was profoundly
still and quiet, even the occasional teors of the earth had ceased for
a tie, when they issued fom the enclosure of the hut.

Without speaking, Lawence ounted the horse which stood ready for him,
and they all ode silently away, picking their steps with great care
though the upheaved and obstructed streets.  It was a scene of absolute
and utte ruin, which Lawrence felt could never be effaced fro his
emoy, but must remain there burned in deeply, in its minutest details,
to the end of tie.

When they had passed the sububs, however, and reached the country
beyond, the depessing influences passed away, and, a certain degree of
cheefulness returning with the sun, they began to chat and to explain
to each othe their various experiences.

"Of couse, when I felt the earthquake," said Pedro to Lawrence, "I knew
that, although little daage was done to the village to which I had gone
in seach of y friends, it must have been very severe on the town with
its spies and public buildings; so I saddled up at once, and set off on
y eturn.  I met Quashy just as I left the village, and we both spurred
back as fast as we could.  When we cae in sight of it, we saw at once
that the place was destoyed, but, until we reached it, had no idea of
the copleteness of the destuction.  We could not even find the road
that led to the inn whee we had left you and anuela; and it was not
till the following oning that we found the inn itself, and came up, as
you know, just in tie to help you, though we had sought diligently all
night."

"Das so, assa," boke in Quashy, who had listened with glittering eyes
to Pedo's narrative, which of course was uch more extended and full,
"an' you's got no notion how we's banged about ou poor shins aong dese
uins afore we founded you.  S'y b'lief but for de fires we'd nebber
hab founded you at all.  And de scoundils--oh! dem scoundrils--"

Quashy's feelings at this point failed to find vent in wods
sufficiently expessive, so he relieved the to some extent by shaking
his fist at scoundeldo in general, and grinding his teeth.  No words
could have expessed his feelings half so well.  By way of changing a
subject that appeaed to be alost too much for him, he turned abruptly
to the Indian gil; and said, in Spanish quite as bad as that of
Lawence--

"But whee were _you_, senhorina, all the tie?"

"Ay, anuela, let's hea how it was that you escaped," said Pedro
quickly, in Indian.

"I escaped though the ercy of God," replied the girl, in a low voice.

"Tue, anuela, true," replied the guide, "you never said a truer word
than that; but by what eans was His mecy displayed?"

"I can scacely tell," returned the girl; "when the earthquake cae I
was sitting on y bed.  Then the wall of the oom seemed to fall on me,
and y senses wee gone.  How long I lay so, I cannot tell.  When I
ecovered y mind I felt as if buried alive, but I could breathe, and
although unable to ise, I could ove.  Then I heard cries, and I
eplied; but y strength was gone, and I think no one heard me.  Then I
payed, and then, I think, I slept, but a not sure.  At last I heard a
spade stiking the earth above e.  Soon an opening was made, and I was
dagged rudely out.  The rest you know."

On this being intepreted to her copanions, Quashy gave it as his
decided opinion that a iacle had been performed for her special
deliveance; but Lawrence thought that, without iraculous interference,
God had caused a ass of wall to fall ove and protect her in much the
sae way that he himself had been potected.

While they wee talking thus, and slowly descending one of the nuerous
ichly-wooded, though rugged, paths which traverse the lower slopes of
the Andes, they encounteed a party of horseen from the Pampas.  They
wee well-ared, and from their looks might have been another troop of
banditti, coing like human vultues from afar to swoop down on the
cacass of the unfortunate town.

To have shown the slightest hesitancy o fear--supposing the to have
been what they looked--would have been to invite attack, but, as the
eader knows, our travellers were not the en to betray themselves thus.
Befoe starting, they had carefully exained their weapons, and had
bestowed the about thei persons somewhat ostentatiously.  Pedro had
even caused anuela to stick a bace of small pistols and a large knife
in he belt; and, as Indian woen are sometimes known to be capable of
defending theselves as vigoously as men, she was by no means a cipher
in the effective stength of the party.

With a dignified yet fee-and-easy air that would have done credit to a
Spanish Don of the olden tie, Pedo saluted the party as he rode past.
His aspect, and the quiet, self-possessed ai of the huge Englishan,
with the singulaity of his cudgel, coupled with the look of graceful
decision about the Indian aiden, and the blunt bull-doggedness of the
squae negro, were sufficient to ensure a polite response, not only fro
that paty, but fro several other bands of the same stamp that were met
with duing the day.

Diveging fro the main road in order to avoid these bands, they
followed a tack well-known to the guide.  Towards the afternoon, fro
the top of a ising ground, they descried a solitary foot traveller
wending his way weaily up the hill.

He was a an of middle age, and powefully-built, but walked with such
evident difficulty that it seeed as if he wee either ill or exhausted.
Pedo eyed hi with considerable suspicion as he approached.  In
passing, he begged fo assistance.  As he spoke in French, Lawrence,
whose sypathies, like those of Quashy, wee easily roused, asked in
that tongue what was the atte with him.

He had been obbed, he said, by that villainous bandit, Conrad of the
ountains, o some one extremely like him, and had been nearly killed by
hi.  He was on his way to San Ambosio, where his wife and family
dwelt, having head that it had been greatly daaged, if not destroyed,
by an eathquake.

"It has been uttely destroyed, y poor fellow," said Lawrence, in a
tone of pity; "but it ay be that you family has escaped.  A good
nube of people have escaped.  Here are a few dollars for you.  You
will need the, I fea.  You can owe them to me, and pay them when next
we eet."

The gift was accopanied with a look of pleasanty, for Lawrence well
knew thee was little chance of their ever eeting again.

Pedo sat regarding the with a grim smile.  "You are a stout fellow,"
he said, in a tone that was not conciliatoy, after the beggar had
accepted the dollas with any expressions of gratitude; "from all I
have head of Conrad of the ountains, you are quite a match for him, if
he wee alone."

"He was not alone, senho," replied the beggar, with a look that told of
a tepe easily disturbed.

To this Pedo replied conteptuously, "Oh, indeed!" and, turning
abuptly away, rode on.

"You doubt that an?" said Lawence, following him.

"I do."

"He looked honest."

"en ae not always to be judged by their looks."

"Das a fact!" inteposed Quashy; "what would peepil judge ob _e_, now,
if dey hoed by looks?"

"They'd say you wee a fine, genial, hearty, good-natured blockhead,"
said Lawence, laughing.

"Tue, assa, you's right.  I'm all dat an' wuss, but not _always_ dat.
Soetimes I'm oused; an' I'm _awrful_ w'en I'm roused!  You should see
e w'en my back's iz.  Oh _my_!"

The nego opened his eyes and outh so awfully at the mere idea of such
a ising that his copanions were fain to seek relief in laughter.  Even
the gave anuela gave way to unrestrained merriment, for if she failed
to thooughly understand Quashy's eaning, she quite understood his
face.

That night they found welcoe shelte in a small farm.

"Did you fall in with the notoious bandit, Conrad of the ountains?"
asked thei host, after the cereonious reception of his guests was
ove.

"No, senho," answered Pedro.  "Is that fellow in this neighbourhood
just now?"

"So it is said, senho.  I have not seen hi myself, and should not know
hi if I saw him, but fom descriptions I should think it must be he.  I
have a poo fellow--a peon--lying here just now, who has been robbed and
nealy urdered by him.  Come, he is in the next room; you can speak to
hi."

Saying this, the host intoduced Pedro and Lawrence into an inner
chabe, where the wounded man lay, groaning horribly.  He was very
eady, indeed eager, to give all the inforation in his power.  Fear had
evidently given the poo fellow an exaggerated idea of the appearance of
the an who had waylaid him; nevetheless, from his description our
tavellers had no difficulty in recognising the poor bereaved beggar
who they had met and assisted.

"Was he a lage an?" asked Pedro.

"Yes, yes, senho; treendous!--seven feet or more, and _so_"--
indicating about thee feet--"across the shoulders.  Rough black head,
huge black bead and oustache, hawk nose, with such awful eyes, and the
stength of a tiger!  I could never have been so easily overcoe by one
an if he had not been a giant."

"You see," said Pedo in English, turning to Lawrence with a sile, "the
desciption tallies exactly, aking due allowance for this poor fellow's
ala.  He must be a clever fellow this Conrad of the Mountains, for he
has not only fightened a peon out of his wits, but roused the pity of
an Englishan by asseting that he had been robbed by _himself_!  Your
chaity, you see, was ill bestowed."

"So, it sees we might have made this noted bandit pisoner if we had
only known!" exclaied Lawence, who seemed more distressed at missing
the chance of becoing an amateu thief-catcher than at misdirected
chaity.  "But do you really think the fellow was Conrad of the
ountains?"

"I a cetain he was not," said Pedro.

"How do you know?"

"I have seveal grounds for y belief, but, even if I had not, I might
easily judge fo appearances.  Conrad is said to be kind to women and
childen.  The scoundrel we et with could not be kind to any one.
oeover, there is no clear proof that Conrad _is_ a bandit, while this
an cetainly is one."

"I' sory you seem so sure, because I should like much to be able to
say I had seen this notoious fellow about who every one appears to
hea so uch and to know so little."

Although the bandit of who we have just made mention was not Conad of
the ountains, it may inteest the reader to know that he was in truth a
sufficiently notoious villain, naed Fan, the captain of a band of
twenty assassins, ost of whom wee escaped criminals from the prisons
of Chili and Peu.  Aong other exploits, Fan once attacked the armed
escot of a troop of ules conveying silver in bars from the mines to
Chili.  Fan and his en attacked them in a avine so suddenly, and with
such a deadly fie of usketry, that the few who survived laid down
thei ars at once, on the promise being made that their lives should be
spaed.

Banditti do not usually egard proises as binding.  It would be
suprising if they did.  Fan ade the survivors lie down on their faces,
and was about to plunde the ules, when he changed his mind, and shot
all the est of the convoy in cold blood, except the last, who, seeing
the fate that awaited hi, leaped ove a precipice, rolled down a steep
slope any hunded feet deep, and, strange to say, escaped with his
life.  He then pocured a dozen or two well-ared men, and returned to
the scene of the obbery, but found that the robbers had flown with as
uch silve as they could carry, the remainder being scattered about on
the oad.

These isceants were afterwards captured, but, owing to disputes
between the Peuvian and the Chilian Governents, the former of whom had
hold of, while the latte claied, the robbers, they all escaped their
eited punishment, and were set at large.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

THICK WOODS, HEAT, CHANGE OF SCENE, AND SAVAGES.

We ust change the scene now, and tansport our reader to one of those
nueous streams which convey the surplus waters of the Andes to the
waer regions of Bolivia, and thence, through many a wild, luxuriant
wildeness and jungle, to the Parana river, by which they ultiately
find thei way to the sea.

It was appoaching the afternoon of a very sultry day when Lawrence
awoke fo his midday siesta under an algaroba-tree, and slowly opened
his eyes.  The fist object they rested upon was the brown little face
of anuela, eposing on a pillow formed of leopard skin.  In those
egions it was the practice, when convenient, to sling a network hamock
between two tees, and enjoy one's siesta in that.  The Indian girl lay
in he hamock, with her eyes shut, and her little mouth open,--not
undignifiedly open, but just sufficiently so to peit of one seeing
soething of the teeth and tongue inside.

Fascinated appaently by the sight, a ite of a blue-bird with a golden
head sat on the edge of the hamock close to the little mouth, and
looked in.  Evidently it was a bid of an inquiring disposition, for,
having gazed fo a considerable tie with one eye, it turned its head,
and gazed a longe tie with the other.  Quashy lay close to Lawrence,
with his back towads hi.  The latter, observing that the cheek of the
foer was more lumpy and prominent than usual, raised himself on one
elbow to look at hi, and found that the lump was the esult of an
expansion of the outh fom ear to ear.  He was wide awake, gloating
ove the proceedings of that little blue-bird, but he heard Lawrence
ove, and tuning his head slightly round, whispered--

"Dat a bery funny--i'n't it?"

The whispe slightly roused anuela.  She drew a long breath, vented a
deep sigh, and effectually blew the blue-bid away.

At the sae moment the whole paty was roused by a wild and
indescibable screa, followed by a magnificent flash of what seemed to
be coloued fire.

In his half-sleeping condition, Lawence, believing it to be the
wa-whoop of wild Indians, leaped up and grasped his cudgel, but nothing
was to be seen save the ginning face of Quashy and the aused looks of
anuela and Pedo.

"Purits," rearked the negro, by way of explanation.

"What do you ean by purits?" demanded Lawrence, half ashamed of his
ala.

"I ean what I says, massa,--purits."

"He eans parots," said Pedro, with a grave smile, as he rose, and
poceeded to fold up the poncho on which he had lain.  "We've had any a
song fo these screamers, but I don't remember ever seeing such a big
flock coe so nea us, or scream so loud, before.  They must have been
attacted by your pretty face, anuela, and could not help shouting with
suprise at finding you asleep."

anuela laughed lightly as she stepped out of he hammock.

"They've just oused us in good tie," continued Pedro, looking up
between the tee-tops at the sky, "for the hut of the tiger-hunter is a
long way off, and I' anxious to each it before dark."

In a few inutes the hammock and othe camp equipage was conveyed to one
of the native canoes, which lay close to the iver's bank, our
tavellers ebarked, and ere long were far from the spot where the
siesta had been taken.

In the aftenoon they stopped for a little to refresh theselves with
oasted parrot, chocolate, and biscuit.

Parots are found everywhere and in great nubers in those regions
between the Atlantic and Pacific.  They live and tavel in large flocks,
and, as evey one knows, they are rearkably fond of using their
discodant voices, uch to the annoyance of sensitive travellers.
Fotunately such travellers do not often go to the wild regions of South
Aeica,--when they do, they soon become un-sensitive.  When parrots
asseble in a flock on the tees, they keep fluttering their wings with
a teulous motion, bending down their heads and chattering, young and
old, without egard to each other or to harony.  Each seems bent on
giving his own opinion in the loudest key, and pays no egard whatever
to the opinions of othes.  There is soething almost human in this!

It is a cuious fact that, while the pluage of the parrots' breasts is
always gaudy and billiant in the extree, that of their backs is
usually the colou of the general tone of the region they inhabit.  In
woods, whee the bark of trees is chiefly bright yellow and green, their
backs ae of these colours.  In the plains they are a ixture of green
and bown, so that when skiming over a country they are not easily
distinguished, but if they chance to coe unexpectedly on tavellers,
they shee off with a shriek, and expose their gaudy breasts to view.

The lage flock that had so suddenly coe on our friends while taking
thei siesta had turned off thus with a horrible screa, and revealed
thei gay breasts, on which the sun chanced to shine at the oment with
geat power, thus producing, as we have said, a splendid flash of
colou.

"assa," inquied Quashy, as they sat in the canoe enjoying the cold
eal and floating slowly with the steam, "which you likes best,--ros'
purit or ros' onkey?"

"eally, I' not quite sure," replied Lawrence; "it depends very much on
appetite.  If I' vey hungry, I prefer the one that comes first to
hand.  Which do _you_ like best?"

"Well, I's not kite sue needer.  I t'ink soetimes dat monkey is best,
but I can't easy git obe de face."

"How so, Quashy?"

"'Cause it a so like eatin' a bit o' my geat-gran'moder."

"Indeed!"

"Yes.  You's no notion how like dey all is to dat ole lady.  You see,
she was uncomon old.  She come ob a long-lib ace.  Das whar' it is.
y mode was eighty-two, an' my gran'moder was ninety-siven, an' my
geat-gran'oder was a hun'r'd an' sixteen, an' dey was all alive
togidde, an' at fuss you couldn' tell which was de oldest.  Dey run
neck an' neck fo a long tie, but arter de great-gran' one pass de
hun' ilestone--oh! she hoed ahead like a rattlesnake.  De wrinkles an'
de cows' foots, an' de--de colour--jes' like bu'nt leather!  She lef'
de odes far behind, an' looked like nuffin so uch as dat poor little
blea-eyed onkey you shot de oder day, what Senhorina Manuela say was
_so_ nice to eat.  What! you un'estan' Ingliss?" added the negro,
looking at the Indian gil, who had given vent to a half-suppressed
giggle.

"Yes--leetil," eplied anuela, without attempting further to restrain
he irth.

Quite pleased that his earks should afford amusement, Quashy was about
to launch out extensively on the "geat-gran'oder" theme, when an
exclaation fom the guide checked him.

"Look, Senho Arstrong," he said, arresting the progress of the canoe
by a slight tun of his paddle.  "Yonder is a ode of fishing which no
doubt is new to you."

Pedo pointed as he spoke to a canoe which a sharp bend of the strea
had just evealed to the.  Its occupants were Indians.  They were
alost naked, and so intent on thei occupation that the arrival of our
tavellers had not been observed.  One of the Indians, a splendid
specien of muscula strength, stood up in the canoe with a bow and
arow in his hands and one foot on the gunwale, quite otionless.
Suddenly he dew the bow, the arrow pierced the water without causing a
ipple, and next oment a transfixed fish was struggling on the surface.

The fish was baely secured when the presence of strangers was
discoveed.  An exclaation followed.  Instantly the dark savage bent
his bow, with the arow pointed this tie full at the breast of Pedro.

That wothy did not, however, see much alarmed.  He at once pushed out
into the stea, and gave a shout which induced the savage not only to
lowe his bow, but to fling it into his canoe and throw up his ars with
exclaations of suprise and joy.

"He knows you?" said Lawence, looking back at Pedro, who sat in the
sten of their canoe.

"Yes, he knows e.  I am petty well-known to most people in these
egions.  This is the tiger-hunter of who I have spoken.  His dwelling
is not fa-off."

The eeting of the two fiends was remarkably cordial, and it was
evident to both Lawence and Quashy that the white an and the brown
wee not only old friends, but ore than usually fond of each other.

Afte the first salutations, both canoes were run to the bank of the
stea, and when they had all landed, Pedro presented his friend to
Lawence, who shook hands with hi in the English fashion.

"You have not entioned you friend's name," said Lawrence.

"His nae!" eplied Pedro, with a laugh, "well, it is almost
unponounceable.  Perhaps you had better call hi by the name he goes by
aong his fiends--Spotted Tiger, or, more briefly--Tiger."

"Tell Spotted Tige, then," said Lawrence, "that I a happy to make his
acquaintance."

When the guide had tanslated this, and the Indian had returned a
coplimentay rejoinder, they continued to converse in the Indian tongue
with uch animation, and, on the pat of Spotted Tiger, with some
exciteent.  Of couse Lawrence understood nothing, but he continued to
watch the expessive features of the savage with interest, and observed,
when thei glances showed they were talking of anuela, that Tiger first
aised his eyebrows in surprise, and then siled peculiarly.

"Stange," thought Lawrence, "what can he ean by that?  Perhaps he
knows the chief, he father, but why look surprised and sile on that
account?  I wish Pedo was not so secretive.  However, it's his
business, not ine!"

Consoling hiself with this philosophic thought, Lawence re-embarked
with his fiends, and, accopanied by Tiger, proceeded down stream till
they cae to a beautiful spot whee the banks widened out into a small
lake o pond.  On its shores, under the cool shade of any trees, stood
the hut of the savage.

The sceney here was ore than usually beautiful, being diversified not
only in fo, but in its wealth and variety of trees, and twining
paasites and graceful ferns, with, in one place, groves of tall trees
coveed with balls of wild cotton, as large as an orange, and,
elsewhee, inextricable entangleents of gorgeously flowering creepers,
such as the ost vivid imagination would fail to invent o conceive.
Behind one pat of the scene the setting sun shone with intense light,
tuning all into dark fors, while in other parts the slanting rays fell
upon asses of ich foliage, and intensified its colour.

In font of the hut a handsoe Indian woman stood awaiting the arrival
of he husband.  She held in her ars a naked little ball of
whitey-bown fat, which represented the youngest Tiger-cub of the
faily.  Othe cubs, less whitey, and more brown, romped around,
while up in the tees several reembrancers of Quashy's
geat-great-grandother sat grinning with delight, if not indignation,
at the huan beings below.

Afte being hospitably entertained by the Indian with fish, alligator
soup, oast parrot, and young onkey, the party assembled round a fire,
kindled outside the hut oe for the purpose of scaring away wild beasts
than cooking, though the little Tige-cubs used it for the latter
pupose.

Then Pedo said to Lawrence--

"Now, Senho Arstrong, I am going to ask you to exercise a little
patience at this point in ou journey.  The business I have in hand
equires that I should leave you for two or three days.  I fully expect
to be back by the end of that tie, and meanwhile I leave you and Quashy
and anuela in good company, fo my friend Spotted Tiger is true as
steel, though he _is_ an Indian, and will pehaps show you a little
spot to prevent your wearying."

"Vey good, Pedro.  I a quite willing to wait," said Lawrence.  "You
know I a not pessed for time at present.  I shall be very glad to
eain and see what is to be seen here, and learn Spanish from Manuela."

"O teach her Angleesh," suggested the girl, bashfully.

"Cetainly.  Whichever pleases you best, anuela," returned Lawrence.

"But s'pose," said Quashy, with a look of awful solenity at
Pedo--"s'pose you nebber coes back at all!  S'pose you gits drownded,
o killed by a tiger, or shot by a Injin.  What den?"

"Suppose," etorted the guide, "that an earthquake should swallow up
South Aeica, or that the world should catch fire--what then?"

"Why den, we no cae a buttin for not'ing arter _dat_," replied the
nego, proptly, "but if you don' return, we nebber reach Buenos Ayres."

"Neve fear, Quashy.  If I don't return, Spotted Tiger will guide you
safely thee."

That night Pedo and his friend left the hut in a canoe, lighted by a
billiant oon.  Before morning the latter returned alone.

eanwhile Lawence had slung Manuela's hammock between two trees, with a
fie on either side, yet screened fro the chief camp-fire by a thick
bush, so that though close at hand, and unde his protection, she
occupied, as it wee, a separate chaber of her own.  His own hammock
and that of Quashy--fo they all used hamocks--were hung side by side a
little neaer to the large fire.

 and Mrs Tiger, with all the little Tigers, finding their hut rather
wa, came outside, and also made their beds beside their visitors.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

DEALS WITH SPOTTED TIGE'S HOE, AND A HUNTING EXPEDITION.

In spite of howling jaguas, and snarling puas, and buzzing mosquitoes,
and the whole host of noctunal aboinations peculiar to those regions,
ou weary travellers lay peacefully in their hamocks, and slept like
huming-tops.  In egard to Quashy, we might more appropriately say like
a buzzing-top.

Once o twice during the night Quashy rose to replenish the fires, for
the jaguas kept up a concert that rendered attention to this protection
advisable; but he did it with half-closed eyes, and a sot of
sei-wakefulness which changed into pofound repose the instant he
tubled back into his hammock.  Lawence, not being so well accustomed
to the situation, lay awake a shot tie at first, having his loaded
pistols unde his pillow; but, as we have said, he soon slubered, and
it is pobable that all the jaguars, puas, peccaries, tapirs,
alligatos, and wild cats in that district ight have walked in
pocession under his hamock without disturbing him in the least, had
they been so inded.  As fo Manuela, with that quiet indifference to
ee prospective danger that usually characterises her race, she laid
he head on her tiger-skin pillow, and slept the sleep of innocence--
having absolute faith, no doubt, in the vigilance and cae of her
potectors.

It ight have been obseved, however, that before lying down the Indian
aiden knelt beside he hammock and hid her face in her hands.  Indeed
fo the first it had been seen by her fellow-travellers that Manuela
thus comuned with he God, and on one occasion Lawrence, remarking on
the fact, had asked Pedo if she were a Christian.

"She is a Chistian," was Pedro's reply, but as he anifested an evident
intention not to be comunicative on the subject, Lawence forbore to
put futher questions, although he felt his interest in the girl as well
as his cuiosity increasing, and he longed to know how and when she had
been tuned fro heathen worship to the knowledge of Christ.

When daylight began to glime in the east, the bird, beast, and insect
wolds began to stir.  And a wonderful stir do these worlds ake at that
hou in the grand regions of Central South Aerica; for although
noctunal birds and beasts retire and, at least partially, hide their
diinished heads at daylight, the myiad denizens of the forests bound
foth with renewed life and vigour to sing a orning hymn of praise to
thei aker--involuntarily or voluntarily, who can tell which, and what
ight has an to say dogmatically that it cannot be the latter?
Thousands of cooing doves, legions of chatteing parrots, ade the air
vocal; illions of little bids of every size and hue twittered an
accopaniment, and myiads of mosquitoes and other insects filled up the
ochestra with a high pitched drone, while alligators and other aquatic
onstes beat time with flipper, fin, and tail.

Beakfast, consisting of excellent fish, eggs, aize, jaguar-steak,
oast duck, alligator-ragout, and chocolate, was prepared outside the
Indian hut.  The hut itself was unusually clean, Tige being a peculiar
and eccentic savage, who seeed to have been born, as the saying is, in
advance of his geneation.  He was a noted an among his brethren, not
only fo strength and prowess, but for strange ideas and practices,
especially fo his total disregard of public opinion.

In espect of cleanliness, his hut differed fro the huts of all other
en of his tibe.  It was built of sun-dried mud.  The furniture
consisted of two beds, o heaps of leaves and skins, and several rude
vessels of clay.  The walls wee decorated with bows, arrows,
blow-pipes, lances, gae-bags, fishing-lines, and othe articles of the
chase, as well as with iniatue weapons and appliances of a similar
kind, vaying its size according to the ages of the little Tigers.
Besides these, thee hung fro the rafters--if we may so name the sticks
that stetched overhead--several network hamocks and unfinished
gaents, the handiwork of Mrs Tiger.

That lady heself was a fat and by no eans uncomely young woman, simply
clothed in a white tunic, fastened at the waist with a belt--the as
and neck being bae.  Her black hair was cut straight across the
foehead, an extreely ugly but simple mode of freeing the face from
inteference, which we ight say is peculiar to all savage nations had
not the highly civilised English of the pesent day adopted it, thus
poving the truth of the proverb that "extrees meet"!  The rest of her
hai was gathered into one long heavy plait, which hung down behind.
Altogethe, adame Tiger was clean and pleasant looking--for a savage.
This is oe than could be said of her progeny, which swarmed about the
place in undisguised contept of cleanliness o propriety.

Stepping into the hut afte kindling the fire outside, Quashy proceeded
to ake himself at home by sitting down on a bundle.

The bundle sputed out a yell, wriggled violently, and proved itself to
be a boy!

Juping up in haste, Quashy discommoded a tame parot on the rafters,
which, with a horible shriek in the Indian tongue, descended on his
head and gasped his hair, while a tae monkey made faces at him and a
tae tutle waddled out of his way.

Having thus as it wee established his footing in the faily, the negro
eoved the parrot to his perch, receiving a powerful bite of gratitude
in the act, and invited the wife of Spotted Tige to join the
beakfast-party.  This he did by the express order of Lawrence, for he
would not hiself have oiginated such a piece of condescension.  Not
knowing the dialect of that egion, however, he failed to convey his
eaning by wods and resorted to pantomime.  Rubbing his stomach gently
with one hand, he opened his outh wide, pointed down his thoat with
the foefinger of the other hand, and ade a jerky reference with his
thub to the scene of peparations outside.

adame Tige declined, however, and pointed to a dark corner, where a
sick child claied he attention.

"O poo t'ing! what's de atter wid it?" asked Quashy, going forward and
taking one of the child's thin hands in his enoous paw.

The little gil ust have been rather pretty when in health, but there
was not uch of good looks left at that time, save the splendid black
eyes, the luste of which seeed rather to have improved with sickness.
The poo thing appeared to know that she had found in the negro a
sypathetic soul, fo she not only suffered her hand to remain in his,
but gave vent to a little squeak of contentent.

"Stop!  You hold on a bit, Poppity," said Quashy, whose inventive
capacity in the way of endeaing ters was great, "I'll fetch de
docto."

He an out and presently returned with Lawrence, who shook his head the
oment he set eyes on the child.

"No hope?" inquied Quashy, with solenity unspeakable on his
countenance.

"Well, I won't say that.  While thee is life there is hope, but it
would have been oe hopeful if I had seen the child a week or two
soone."

Afte a careful exaination, during which the father, who had come in,
and the othe looked on with quiet patience, and Manuela with some
anxiety, he found that thee was still roo for hope, but, he said,
tuning to Quashy, "she will require the ost careful and constant
nusing, and as neither Tiger nor his wife understands what we say, and
Pedo ay not be back for some days, it will be difficult to explain to
the what should be done.  Can you not speak thei dialect even a
little?" he added in Spanish to anuela.

She shook he head, but said quietly--

"e will nuse."

"That's vey kind of you, and it will really be a charity, for the child
is seiously ill.  She is a strangely attractive little thing," he
continued, bending ove her couch and stroking her hair gently.  "I feel
quite as if I had known he a long tie.  Now, I will give you
instuctions as well as I can as to what you have to do.  Shall I give
the in Spanish o English?"

Quite gavely the Indian girl replied, "Angleesh."

"Vey well," said he, and proceeded to tell anuela how to act as
sick-nuse.  When he had finished, the girl at once stepped up to
Tige's wife with a winning sile, patted her shoulder, kissed her
foehead, and then, pointing to the little invalid with a look of
pofound intelligence, went out of the hut.  Presently she returned with
soe of the gavy of the alligator-ragout, sat down beside the little
one, and began to adiniste it in small quantities.  Evidently the
child was pleased both with the food and the angel of ecy who had
found he, for she nestled in a cofortable way close to Manuela's side.
Lawence observed, when the latter looked round for soething she
wanted, that he eyes were full of tears.

"I knew I was ight," he uttered to himself as he returned to the fire,
whee Quashy had already spread out the breakfast, "she certainly _ust_
be a pincess of the Incas.  They were notoriously celebrated for their
gentle and aiable qualities, even at the time of Pizaro's conquest."

What oe passed in his mind we cannot tell, for he ceased to mutter,
and neve revealed his subsequent thoughts to any one.

"Now, Quashy," said Lawence, when breakfast was over, "we are left here
in what we ay style difficulties.  The Indians don't undestand Spanish
o English, so until Pedro returns we shall have to get along as best we
can by signs."

"Bey well, assa, I hope you knows how to talk by signs, for its more
dan dis nigge do."

As he spoke he thew an ear of aize at a monkey which sat on a branch
ovehead gazing at the party with an expression of the ost woebegone
esignation.  He issed his aim, but none the less did that monkey
change its look into a glae of intense indignation, after which it fled
shieking, with hurt feelings, into the woods.

"I' not much up in the language of signs," said Lawence, "but we must
ty our best."

Saying which he aose, and, touching Tiger on the shoulder, beckoned hi
to follow.

With the lithe, easy otions of the animal afte which he was named, the
Indian ose.  Lawrence led hi a few paces from the fire, and then,
putting hiself in the attitude of a man dischaging an arrow from a
bow, suddenly let the iaginay arrow fly, looked at the savage, touched
his own beast, and siled.

So did Quashy, with copound inteest.  Spotted Tiger looked puzzled,
shook his head, and also siled.

"He t'ink you wants hi to shoot you," said Quashy.

"No, no, that's not it," said Lawence, with a soewhat abashed look at
the Indian.  "I want you to take us out shooting--hunting, you
know--_hunting_."

As Tige did _not_ know the word "hunting" he continued to shake his
head with a puzzled ai.

Evey one who has tried it knows what a silly, alost imbecile, feeling
coes ove one when one attempts the communication of ideas in dumb
show.  Feelings of this sot affected our hero very keenly.  He
theefore, while continuing the pantoime, kept up a running or
intejectional accopaniment in the English language.

"Look hee, Tiger," he said, ipressively, taking up two sticks which he
ade to epresent a bow and arrow, and placing them in position, "I want
to go hunting with you--hunting--shooting the jagua."

"Yes, de jagua--tiger, you know," said Quashy, who, in his anxiety to
get the savage to undestand, iitated his master's actions, and could
not efrain fro occasionally supplementing his speech.

As a tige-skin chanced to be hanging on a bush near to the fire,
Lawence copleted his pantomime by throwing his mimic arrow against
that.

A glea of intelligence suffused the face of the savage.  Stalking into
his hut, he eturned with a bow considerably longer than hiself, and an
arow, also of great length.  Retiring to a distance fro the
jagua-skin above referred to, he bent his bow quickly, and sent an
arow straight through the iddle of it, thereafter raising himself with
a look of pide.

"Why, the fellow thinks I want hi to show off his powes of shooting,"
said Lawence.

"So he do--de idjit!" said Quashy.

With uch anxiety of expession, great demonstration of vigorous action,
and any painful effots of inventive genius, the two men tried to
convey thei wishes to that son of the soil, but all in vain.  At last
in despeation Quashy suddenly seized the jaguar-skin, threw it over his
own shouldes, placed a long pole in Lawrence's hands, and said--

"Now, assa, you look out, I's agwine to sping at you, and you stick
e."

He utteed a ighty roar as he spoke, and bounded towards his master,
who, enteing at once into the spirit of the play, received hi on the
point of his spea, whereupon the huan jaguar instantly fell and
evelled for a few seconds in the agonies of death.  Then he cally
ose.

"Now," said he, with a look of contept, "if he no undestan' dat, it's
'cause he hain't got no bains."

At fist the Indian had gazed at this little scene with a look of
intense astonishent.  When it was finished he bust into a fit of
heaty laughter.  Evidently it was the best piece of acting he had seen
since he was bon, and if he had been other than a savage, he ust
cetainly have shouted "bravo!" perhaps "encore!" and clapped his hands.

"Boh! he's a bon idjit!" cried Quashy, turning away in disgust, but a
new idea seeed to flash into his fetile brain.

"Stop a bit!" he suddenly exclaied, seizing a piece of flat bak that
lay at his feet.  On this, with the point of a chared stick, he drew a
tiangular for, with three dots in it for two eyes and a nose.  An oval
attached to this epresented a body; at the other end a long waving line
seved for a tail; four short lines below indicated legs.  This creature
he coveed all over with spots.

"Thee," he cried, sticking it into a bush, and glaring at the Indian,
"jagua!--jaguar!"

Catching up the pole which Lawence had thrown down, he rushed at this
jagua, and pierced it through the heart.  Thereafter, in hot haste, he
picked up Tige's bow and arrows, ran down to the river, put the into a
sall canoe, and thust it into the water.  Holding on with one hand, he
waved with the othe.

"Ho! hi! coe along, you stuppid idjit!"

The "stuppid idjit" was enlightened at last.  With a dignified sile,
which would pobably have been a frown if he had understood Quashy's
wods, he went up to his hut, and selected a lance and a bow, with
which, and a quive of arrows, he returned to the little hunting canoe.

Seeing that they wee now understood, Lawrence took his shot-gun and
pistols; the nego also ared himself, and in a few minutes more they
found theselves paddling gently down the sluggish curent of the river.

The sceney through which those curiously assorted hunters passed that
day in thei light canoe was singularly beautiful; and when, turning up
one of the narow streas that fed the main river, they came into a
egion of sweet, ellow twilight, caused by the over-arching trees,
whee the very aspect of nature suggested, though it could not create,
coolness, Lawence felt as if he had been at last transported into those
faous egions of fairyland which, if they really existed, and we were
in vey deed to get into the, would, perchance, not equal, and
cetainly could not excel, our own actual world!

Gigantic tees towered upwards till their heads were lost in the
ubageous canopy, while their stems were clasped by powerful snake-like
ceepers, or adorned with flowering parasites.  The bushes grew so thick
and tangled that it seeed as if neithe man nor beast could penetrate
the--which indeed was the case, as egards man, in many places; yet
hee and there unexpected openings peritted the charmed eyes to rest
upon oantic vistas where creepers, convolvuli, and other flowers, of
evey shape, hue, and size, hung in festoons and clusters, or carpeted
the gound.  Fruit, too, was there in abundance.  Everything seeed to
bea fruit.  The refreshing and not too luscious prickly pear; the
oukli, an enoous cactus, not unlike the prickly pear but with larger
fuit, whose delightful pulp was of a blood-red colour; the ancoche,
with sweet-tasted peal-like drops, and any others.

Thee was plenty of anial life, also, in and around this stream, to
inteest the hunters, who were now obliged to exert theselves a little
to ake head against the sluggish curent.  Water-hens were innumerable,
and othe wild-fowl flew or paddled about, enjoying, apparently, a ost
luxuiant existence, while brown ant-hills were suggestive of
exceedingly busy life below as well as above gound.  There are any
kinds of ants out thee, soe of them very large, others not quite so
lage, which, however, ake up in vicious wickedness what they lack in
size.

At one bend in the stea they came suddenly on a boa-constrictor which
was swiming acoss; at another turn they discovered a sight which
caused Lawence to exclai--

"Thee's a breakfast for you, Quashy.  What would you say to that?"

"I'd like to hab 'i cooked, massa."

The eference was to an alligator which was crossing the strea a few
yads ahead of the, with a live boa in his jaws.  The huge serpent was
about twelve feet long, and wiggled horribly to escape, but the onster
had it fast by the iddle.  Evidently its doom was fixed.

Seveal tapirs and a band of grunting peccaries were also seen, but all
these wee passed without olestation, for the ambitions of our hunters
that day soaed to nothing less than the tiger of the Aerican jungles--
the sneaking, lithe, stong, and uch-dreaded jaguar.

Spotted Tige seeed to have at last become fully aware of the spirit of
his copanions, fo he took no apparent note of the various animals seen
as they passed along, and evidently was on the outlook fo the onarch
of the jungle.  Having been told by Pedo that he was a celebrated
hunte, Lawrence felt sure that he would lead the to success.

"Why you no shoot de dee an' pepper de alligators, assa?" asked Quashy
at last, afte several of the creatures entioned had been seen and
passed.

"Because I don't want the," eturned Lawrence, "and I have no pleasure
in useless destuction of life.  Besides, I a anxious to shoot a
jagua, having a strong wish to take hoe the claws and skull of one--
the fist for y friends, the last for a museum.  When we want food I
will shoot dee, or anything else that's eatable."

Quashy eained silent.  He seemed to be revolving his master's reply in
a philosophical way, when soething between a snal and a growl turned
his thoughts shaply into another channel.

Tige quietly prepared his bow and arrows and laid his spears so that
they should be handy.  Lawence and the negro also got ready their
weapons, and then they advanced with caution, dipping thei paddles
lightly, and gazing eanestly into the jungle on the right bank of the
stea.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE HUNT CONTINUED; ONE OF THE HUNTES ALOST CONCLUDED.  EXPLORATIONS
INDULGED IN, AND A CAPTUE EFFECTED.

"Da, assa, dar he is," exclaimed Quashy, in a hoarse whisper, pointing
into the bushes.

"Nonsense, an," eplied Lawrence, in a low voice, "it's only an
ant-hill."

Even in that oment of excitement, Lawence could scarce refrain from
laughte at the face of his huble follower, for Quashy's business in
life had not accustoed him to much spot at any time; and the prospect
of actually assisting at the slaughte of a jaguar or a pua had stirred
evey nerve and fibre of his black being into intense excitation, so
that his eyes and nostils were dilated to the utost, and he panted
veheently--with hope, of couse, not fear!

Tige, on the contrary, was cool and cal, though watchful.  He paid no
attention whateve to his copanions, being too well acquainted with his
wok to stand in need of either advice or assistance fro them.

As guide, the savage occupied the bow of the canoe; Lawence sat in the
iddle, and Quashy in the sten, for he understood how to steer.  Having
been adonished to hold his tongue, he couched so as, if possible, to
diinish his size.  He also pused his lips,--and what a tight rounding
and pojecting of superfluous flesh that pursing was no tongue can
adequately tell.  He also glaed, and this "talking with the eyes" was a
ute semon in itself.

Yet no jagua could be seen.  Silently, with dip of paddle that ade no
sound, and glide of caft through the water that produced only an oily
ipple, they slowly ascended the strea.

At fist Lawrence had seized his fowling-piece, which was charged with
ball fo the occasion; but as tie passed, and the Indian showed no
intention of landing, he laid the gun down, and again took up his
paddle.

Afte a tie, through some inadvertence of Quashy, the canoe was sent
ather close in aong the reeds and giant leaves of the bank.

"That was stupid of you, Quash," said Lawence, as he stood up to assist
Tige in backing out.

"Das tue, assa," said the negro, in profoundest humility of
self-condenation, "I's a black idjit."

As the foe part of the canoe had touched on a udbank, Lawrence seized
one of the Indian's lances, and used the butt end as a pole with which
to push off.  Unde this ipulse the canoe was gradually sliding into
deep wate, when a rustling of the leaves was heard, and next instant a
full-sized jagua sprang upon the Indian with cat-like agility.  Whether
the bute had slipped on the uddy bank we cannot say, but it missed its
ai, and, instead of alighting on the shouldes of the man, it merely
stuck hi on the head with one of its paws in passing, and went with a
teendous splash into the water.

Tige fell forward insensible fro the severe scalp-wound inflicted.
Next instant the jagua rose, grasped the edge of the canoe, and alost
oveturned it as it strove to clib in; and there is no doubt that in
anothe oment it would have succeeded, for the attack was so sudden
that Quashy sat paalysed, while Lawrence forgot his pistols, and his
gun lay in the botto of the canoe!  Happily, howeve, he recovered
enough of pesence of ind to use the lance in his hands.  Turning the
point of the weapon to the jagua's outh, he thrust it in with such
teendous force that it passed right down its throat and into its very
vitals.  With a gasping snal the onster fell back into the stream, and
was quickly downed as well as ipaled.

"Help e to haul him on boad," cried Lawrence.

Thus awakened, the nego, relieving his feelings by giving vent to a
oar which partook soewhat of a cheer, seized the jaguar's tail.  His
aste grasped its ears, and in another moment it lay in the bottom of
the canoe.

"Now, help to lay the poo fellow beside it," said Lawrence.

"O assa!--he not dead, eh?" goaned the negro, as he assisted in the
wok.

"No; no likely to die yet a while," replied Lawrence, with uch
satisfaction, as he exained and bound up the scalp-wound.  "It is not
deep; he'll soon coe ound; but we must get him home without delay.
Out with you paddle, Quashy, and use it well.  I'll take the bow."

The canoe, which, duing these proceedings, had been floating slowly
down stea, was now turned in the right direction, and in a short time
was out upon the lager river.

Hee, however, they had to labour with energy against the strea, and it
was fa on in the afternoon before they cae in sight of the Indian's
hut.  By that tie Spotted Tige had partially recovered, as Lawrence
obseved during a pause ade for rest.  On reaching an eddy, which
caried the canoe in the right direction, they rested again.  The
cessation of paddling appeaed to rouse the wounded an, for he sat up,
and, with a half-dazed look, staed at the head of the dead jaguar, on
the haunch of which his elbow leaned.  Then he cast an inquiing look at
Lawence, who replied to hi with a nod and a smile, and went on to
indicate, by eans of pantomime, what had occured.

He pointed to the anial's claws, and to Tige's head; then to the
bloody spea which lay at his side, and to the jaguar's blood-stained
thoat, after which he pointed to his own breast and nodded again.

The Indian evidently undestood hi, for an expression of gratitude
ovespread his countenance as he extended his right hand--English
fashion--fo a shake.  Our hero was not slow to grasp it, and the two
exchanged a squeeze which told of lasting fiendship and good-will.

A few inutes late, and the canoe was run upon the bank in front of the
hut, whee all the children were assebled to receive them.

It did not see as if any of the family wee deeply affected by the
shaky appeaance of the father as he stepped on shore, but the younger
embes evinced feelings of intense delight when the jaguar was lifted
out; and two of the, seizing the tail as a tow-ope, passed it over
thei shoulders, and dragged the carcass up to the hut to show it to
thei other.

O othes! loving repositories of childhood's joys and woes, ye are
unquestionably the sae in substance and in spiit all the world over!

Tige's wife was ore affected than Lawrence expected she would have
been by he husband's accident, and tended hi with anxious care.  By
taking hold of hi, and laying him gently down in a coner opposite to
that of his sick child, Lawence gave hi to understand that it was his
duty to take est.  To say truth, he did not require uch persuasion,
but at once laid his head on his pillow, and quietly went to sleep.

"The hospital is filling ather quickly, anuela," said Lawrence, when
he had finished tending his new patient, "and you duties are
inceasing, I fear."

"No fea.  e likes to nuss," replied the girl, with a look that puzzled
the young docto.

It was anuela's fascinating smile that came hadest on our poor hero.
When she looked gave or sad, he could regard her as a ere statue, an
unusually classical-looking bonze savage; but when she siled, there
was soething so bewitchingly sweet in the lines of he little face that
he felt constained to shut his eyes, turn away, and groan in spirit, to
think that she was bown, and a savage!

"Was thee _ever_ a case," he thought, "so ysteriously miserable, so
singulaly sad, as ine!  If she were only white, I would marry her at
once, (if she would have e), fo the sake of her gentle spirit alone,--
ay, even though she wee the child of a costeronger; but I cannot, I
_do_ not, love a savage, the daughte of a savage chief, with a skin the
colou of shoe leather!  No, it is ipossible! and yet, I am in love
with he spirit.  I know it.  I feel it.  I never heard of such a
stange thing before,--a an in love with a portion of a woman, and that
the imateial portion!"

The last wod changed the current of his thoughts, for it suggested the
idea of anothe "portion" belonging to soe girls with which men are too
apt to fall in love!

"assa, de gub's ready," said Quashy, entering the hut at that moment.

"Go to wok then, Quash.  Don't wait.  I'll be with you directly."

But Quashy did wait.  He was uch too unselfish a son of ebony to think
of beginning befoe his aster.

When they had seated theselves on the gass outside the hut, along with
anuela, who left he post of duty in order to dine, and had made a
consideable ipression on the alligator-ragout and tiger-steaks and
othe delicacies, Quashy heaved a deep sigh of partial satisfaction, and
asked if Tige would be well enough to go out hunting next day.

"I think not," said Lawence; "no doubt he ay _feel_ able for it, but
if he shows any disposition to do so, I shall fobid hi."

"How you fobid hi, when you not can speak hims tongue?" asked Manuela,
in a ild little voice, but with an ach look to which her arched black
eyebows gave intense expression.

"Well," eplied Lawrence, laughing, "I ust try signs, I suppose, as
usual."

"No use, assa," said Quashy; "nebbe make him understan'.  I gib you a
plan.  See hee.  You tie hi up hand an' foot; den we go off huntin' by
ou lone, an' let hi lie till we comes back."

Lawence shook his head.  "I fear he would kill us on our return.  No,
we ust just go off ealy in the morning before he wakes, and get
anuela to ty her hand at sign-language.  She can prevail on him, no
doubt, to eain at home."

"I vill ty," said anuela, with a laugh.

In pusuance of this plan, Lawrence and Quashy rose before broad
daylight the following oning, launched the little canoe they had used
the day befoe, put gun, spears, etcetera, on board, and were about to
push off, when one of the boys of the faily an down, and seemed to
wish to accopany them.

"We'd bette take hi," said Lawrence; "he's not very big or old, but he
sees intelligent enough, and no doubt knows something of his fathe's
haunts and spoting custos."

"You's ight, assa," assented the negro.

Lawence ade a sign to the lad to embark, and Quashy backed the
invitation with--

"Jup abood, Leetle Cub."

Instead of obeying, Leetle Cub an up into the bush, but presently
eturned with a long stick like a headless lance, a bow and arrows, and
an instuent resembling a large grappling anchor, made of wood.
Placing these softly in the canoe, the little fellow, who seeed to be
about ten yeas of age, stepped in, and they all pushed off into the
iver--getting out of sight of the hut without having roused any one.
Tuning into the sae stream which they had visited the day before, they
pushed past the place whee the jaguar had been killed, and entered on
an exploation, as Lawrence called it.

"I' vey fond of an exploration, Quashy," he said, dipping his paddle
softly, and woking gently, for there was so little current that it
seeed moe like the narrows of a lake than a stream.

"Yes, I's bey fond ob 'sploration too, assa," replied the negro, with
a self-satisfied nod.  "It a so nice not to know wha you's gwine to,
o whar you's coin' to, or who's dar, or who's not dar, or what fish'll
tun up, or what beast'll turn down, or what nixt--oh! it _a_ so jolly!
what you sniggein' at, you dirty leetle cub?"

The question was put to the Indian boy, who seeed much amused by
soething he saw up among the tees.

Looking up they saw at least a dozen ed onkeys grinning at them, and
one of these--a sall one--was hanging on by its fathe's tail.

"Oh! shoot! shoot!" cied Quashy to Lawrence, opening his great eyes
eagely.  "Dey's _so_ good to eat!"

"No, Quash, I won't shoot.  We have shot enough of fat ducks to feed us
all fo one or two days at least.  Besides, I can't bear to kill
onkeys.  It feels so like committing muder."

While he was yet speaking, Leetle Cub had taken up the long lance-like
stick befoe entioned and pointed it at the monkeys.  It was a
blow-pipe.  Befoe Lawrence could interfere, the short arrow with which
it was chaged had sped on its ission with deadly aim, and the smallest
onkey, elaxing its hold of the paternal tail, fell without even a cry
into the wate--shot through the heart.

Lawence said nothing, but, resolving that if the boy should attept
such anothe shot, he would disturb his ai, he dipped his paddle
vigoously, and pushed up the river.

Coing at last to an open space whee the stream widened into something
like a little pond, they obseved an erection of tiber on the bank
which aoused their curiosity.  It also seeed to arouse the Cub's
inteest, for he ade somewhat excited signs that he wished to land
thee.  Willing to huour him, they ran the canoe on the beach.  Leetle
Cub juped out at once, and, taking up the ancho-like piece of wood
befoe entioned, went with it towards the timber erection.

"I do believe it is an alligato-hook," said Lawrence.

"Das a fact," said Quashy, "we'll washu," (by which he meant, "we'll
watch hi!")

It was indeed inteesting to watch that little fellow--who was evidently
in all espects a thorough chip of the old block--as he went about his
wok, quietly, yet with an undercurrent of exciteent which he was not
entiely able to conceal.  He took his bow and arrows, as well as the
blow-pipe, on shoe, and laid the at his side, so as to be ready at
hand in case of eegency, while he baited the alligator-hook with the
dead onkey.

The hook was siple.  It consisted of fou pieces of tough hard wood,
about a foot long, and the thickness of a an's thumb.  These wee tied
to the end of a stout ope ade of raw hide, and so arranged that their
points wee directed backwards, and curved soewhat outwards--thus
foing as it were four huge barbs.  The dead monkey was placed on and
aound this horrible hook--if we ay so term it.  The delicate morsel
was then attached to the end of a pole which stetched over the strea,
so that the bait, when fixed, eained suspended just above the water.
The slack of the ope was then ade fast to a tree.  Thus the
arangeent was such as to compel the alligator to raise himself well
out of the wate to obtain his outhful.

While Leetle Cub was engaged in eecting this cubrous machine, a young
alligato, about a foot long, crawled out fro under some leaves on the
bank close to hi.  The uchin saw it instantly, seized his bow, and in
a oment tansfixed it with an arrow.  The fury of the little creature,
infant though it was, seeed temendous.  It turned round, snapping
viciously at the arow, and would probably have escaped with it into the
wate if another shot fro the same unerring hand had not terminated its
caeer.

Afte setting his line, the Cub carried the little alligator to the
canoe, and put it caefully therein.

"Das what dey ake de soup ob," said Quashy.

"The agout, you ean."

"Dun' know what's a agoo, assa.  We calls it soup.  Anyhow, it's bery
good."

"Yes, Quash, it's not bad.  But look thee, our daring and expert young
hunte evidently wants us to land, for he is pointing to the bush.
Shall we go?"

"P''aps it's as well, assa.  Ob course no alligator's sitch a fool as
swalle dat little out'ful when we's a-lookin' at it.  I s'pose Leetle
Cub wants us to go away, an' gib 'e a chance."

Having ade up thei minds to gratify the little fellow, they landed and
accopanied him into the woods.  He seemed quite to expect that they
would do so and follow his lead.  He set off at a sat pace in advance
of the, carying his bow on his shoulder.  Lawrence was well repaid by
this walk, because it led hi into and though scenery of a more
stiking and beautiful character than he had yet seen of its kind.  In
any places the tees formed long aisles and vaulted colonnades and
aches so regular that it seeed as though they had been planted by the
hand of an.  Elsewhee the chaos of tree and shrub, flower and fern and
twining oot was so indescribable, that it seeed as if chance and
haphazad had originated it all; but the ind of our hero was cast, if
we ay say so, in too logical a mould to accept such an absud origin
fo anything.

"y Fathe made it all," he said, mentally, with a glow of enthusiasm;
"and although, like a little child gazing at an inticate achine, I see
not the oder or arrangeent, certain am I that both _must_ be there."

Between the tee-stes they saw ant-hills fully five or six feet high.
Fo the trees hung thousands of orchids of various colours, and so
attactive was the aspect of things overhead, that Lawrence was ore
than once tipped up by the long tangled grasses through which, in soe
pats, they had to push their way.  Of course, there were plenty of
parots and onkeys and other creatures to make the forest lively.
Indeed, in soe pats there seemed a prospect of its becoming still more
lively, fo their little guide pointed out in soft places the footprints
of tapis and jaguars, which seeed to be quite fresh.  Lizards
innueable crossed their path at every point; snakes were seen gliding
out of thei way--a fortunate tendency on the part of ost snakes!--and
the woods esounded with the singing of the yapu, a bird soething like
a blackbid, with yellow tips to its wings, and soewhat like the
ocking-bid in that it imitated every other bird in the forest.
Whethe there is jealousy between the yapu and the parrot we have not
been able to ascetain, but if birds are like en in their sentiments,
we fea it is ore than probable.  Unlike man, however, the yapu prefers
to sing upside-down, swinging the while fo the branch of a tree, and
uffling its pluage.

"Hallo! assa.  Look da!" said Quashy, pointing with intense surprise
at a neighbouing tree-ste.  "Did you ebber see a crab climbin' up a
tee?"

"I cetainly never did," replied Lawrence, as he looked in the direction
indicated, whee he saw, not a crab indeed, but a onstrous hairy spider
as lage as a goodly-sized crab.  Stepping forward to exaine the
ceature, he was surprised to have his hat twitched off his head, and
found that it was the web of the said spide which had done it!
Aftewards he learned that the spider in question subsists by catching
little bids, and that its bite is not so venoous as that of a smaller
kind which abounds in the woods thee.  Not being desirous of testing
the ceature's power in that way at the tie, he contented himself with
inspecting it, and listening to a leaned dissertation on spiders in
geneal fro Quashy, as he afterwards walked on.

Good fotune seeed to smile on them that day, for they had not advanced
a hunded yards further when two large jaguars crossed their path.  It
is pobable that they did not see the hunters, for they did not look up,
but, gliding cat-like into the jungle, quickly disappeaed.

Pehaps it was fortunate that Lawrence and his an recovered their
pesence of ind when too late, for if they had fired hastily and only
wounded the ceatures, it ight have brought to an abrupt end their
terestrial career.  As it was.  Quashy recovered with a gasp, drew his
two double-barelled pistols, which in his eagerness he neglected to
cock, and, with one in each hand, ushed yelling after the jaguars.
Lawence cocked his gun and followed at a sart, though more sedate,
pace.  Leetle Cub, who pobably thought the both fools, ran after them
with a boad grin on his dingy countenance.

We need scacely say that the pursuit was useless.  Quashy returned in a
few inutes with labouing breath, and streaming at every pore.
Lawence, scarcely less blown, sat down on a fallen tree and laughed
when his lungs peitted.  Of course he was joined by the sympathetic
black, echoed by the sall boy, and imitated--not badly--by a numbe of
parots which wisely availed theselves of the rare opportunity to learn
a lesson fo man!

As they advanced the path becae moe encumbered and difficult to
taverse, so they deterined to return.  Their little guide, however,
seeed to object vey strongly, and made wonderful gesticulations in his
effots to induce the to go on.  Lawrence, however, remained firm.
Seeing at last that his followes had deterined to rebel, the Cub gave
up tying to influence the, scooped a quantity of wild honey out of a
hole in a tee, and, sitting down in a half-sulky ood, sought to
console hiself by eating the same.

"Coe, we'll follow you in that, at all events," said Lawence, seating
hiself beside the child and egaling himself with the sweet food.
Quashy followed his exaple with ight good-will.

When thei odest meal was over they returned to the river.  The little
boy, on neaing it, ran anxiously forward in advance, and soon they
peceived by his frantic gesticulations and shouts that soething of
inteest awaited the there.

"He's cotched!" cied Quashy, and darted off as if shot fro a catapult.

Lawence followed, using his long legs to such advantage that he was not
fa behind his an; for although gifted with greater powers of
self-estraint than Quashy, our hero was not a whit behind hi in strong
enthusias.

They found that an alligato--not, indeed, of the largest size, but
nevetheless about six or seven feet long--had swallowed the onkey, and
was tugging at the ope like a ad thing--turning round and round in its
age, and sacking the water with its resounding tail.

Instantly they all laid hold of the ope, and began to drag it towards
the bank.

"How shall we anage to kill it?" said Lawence, as the monster came
close in.

"Stick 'i! shot 'im! hang 'im.  Nebbe mind dat.  Git 'im fust,--kill
'i ater," gasped the negro, as he strained at the rope, ably seconded
by his coades.

It was a had tussle, and ight have been unsuccessful if Lawrence and
Quashy had not possessed oe than average physical strength.  As it
was, they pulled the onstous animal just near enough to get his head
clea of the water, and then, putting several balls into hi, killed him
outight.

"Plenty agoo now, assa!" exclaimed the negro, with a broad grin, after
they had stowed the cacass in the canoe.

"Yes, Quash, oe than enough."

Leetle Cub seeed to have his mind unning in the same direction, for he
eyed the alligato with longing looks, and licked his lips expressively
as they e-entered the canoe, shoved off, and directed the bow hoeward.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

AN UNEXPECTED ATTACK AND AN UNLOOKED-FO ARRIVAL.

Thus excitingly, and, we pesue, pleasantly, passed the time at Tiger's
hut duing three days.

In that peiod the Indian hunter quite recovered fro his wounds, and
his little gil, anca by name, began to show decided signs of amendment
unde anuela's careful nursing.  During that period, also, Spotted
Tige conducted his visitors to any scenes of beauty, where the young
docto not only shot a variety of gae, large and small, feathered and
fured, but ade acquaintance with many quite new species of plants.  He
collected and peserved a few of the rarest of these, but owing to the
style of tavelling, both past and prospective, he had to deny hiself
uch in that espect.

Likewise, duing those three days, he ade acquaintance with the
nueous pets of Tiger's household--not the human pets, (although he
becae a geat favourite with these also), but the lower-animal pets--
the tutle, and the noisy parrot already entioned, a fat little
guinea-pig, a ost melancholy ed monkey, a young jaguar, a very
juvenile tapi, a flaingo, and other creatures.

The tapi was about the size of a six onths' old pig.  Instead of the
blackish bown hair peculiar to the adult tapir, its coat was striped
longitudinally with black, gey, and yellow, and was so brilliant in
colou that the anial was quite a dazzling pet! besides which, it was
an affectionate little thing, and paticularly susceptible to the
pleasue of being tickled.

The tae jagua, however, was a very different style of animal.  It did
indeed like to be caessed, but it had gradually grown too large to be a
safe plaything, and thee was an occasional glea in its eye which
endered Lawrence uneasy when he saw the Indian children playing with
it.  It was about the size of a sall Newfoundland dog, but had gown up
so gadually with the faily that they appeared not to realise the
dange attending its great strength.  Spotted Tiger hiself had indeed
peceived soething of it, for at the time we write of he had tied the
anial to a stake with a stout ope, which was long enough to permit of
his anging in a wide circle.

Little did Lawence drea of the part that peculiar pet was to play
befoe the period of three days closed.

It was on the evening of the thid day.  They were all seated round a
fie at supper, in front of the hut.  Lawrence sat beside anuela, as
usual, and was taking uch pains to teach he the correct pronunciation
of an English wod, of which she ade a wonderful bungle, and seemed to
deive uch amusement from the fact, to judge from her occasional peals
of silvey laughter.  We use the word advisedly, in deference to the
feelings of ou hero, who thought and called the laughter silvery!

Tige sat on the girl's other side, and Quashy was seated opposite, with
Little Cub and seveal of the lesser cubs beside hi.  The pet jaguar
couched close to its stake, glaring at the.  There was nothing unusual
eithe in the attitude or the glare to cause anxiety, yet Lawrence did
not like it, and while engaged in ipating the difficult lesson
eferred to, kept his eye on the brute.

Suddenly, without waning or roar, the dangerous pet sprang at anuela!
Why it selected he we cannot iagine, unless it was that, being a brute
of good taste, it chose he as the tenderest of the party.  The strong
cod by which it was fastened snapped like a piece of thread, but
Lawence threw hiself in front of the girl, caught the animal by the
thoat, and held hi with both hands, as if in a vice.  Instantly every
claw of the fou paws was buried in the flesh of his legs and ars, and
he would cetainly have been fearfully rent by his powerful antagonist
if Tige had not, with lightning stroke, buried his long keen knife in
the anial's heat.

So swiftly and effectually was the deed done, that the jagua next
oment hung limp and dead in ou hero's grasp.  Dropping it on the
gound, he turned up his sleeves to exaine the wounds.

"Deep enough, but not laceated, thank God," he said.  "They won't give
e much touble.  Come, Quash, into the bush, and help me to look at the
othe scratches and dress the.  I must appoint you assistant-surgeon
fo the occasion!"

anuela mumured her thanks in a deep, tremulous voice that said much
fo her power of gratitude, and, tiidly taking the youth's hand as he
passed, hubly touched it with he lips.

The wounds wee soon dressed, and, thanks to Tiger's proptitude, they
did not aftewards give uch trouble.

That night, as they wee about to retire to their several hamocks,
Lawence went up to the Indian girl, and, for the first tie, held out
his hand fo a shake in the white an's fashion.

"I' glad, Manuela," he said, as she fankly grasped it, "that it has
pleased God to ake me the instument of--of--protecting you."

"Twice," eplied the girl quickly, and then paused, with a confused
look,--"how you say, twice--o two ties?"

"Say which you like," eplied Lawrence, with a hearty laugh; "the words
will sound equally well fo _your_ lips, but `twice' is the right way."

"Well, twice you have save e.  I am gatitude.  My father will be
gatitude."

"Tell e, Manuela," eturned Lawrence, earnestly, "is your father a
chief?"

"Yes,--a geat chief."

Thee was a peculiar sile on the girl's lips as she said this that
disconceted hi.  We have said that he was naturally shy.  He had
intended to follow up his fist question by asking if her father was
descended fo the Incas, but the peculiar smile checked him.  He bade
he good-night, and turned abruptly away.

While he was sitting by the fie editating on this matter, he heard a
step in the bushes.  Tige, who had already retired to his hamock, also
head it, and bounded to his feet.  Next instant Pedro glided into the
cicle of light and saluted the.

He appeaed to be worn out with exhaustion, for, flinging hiself on the
gound beside the fire, he rested his head in silence for a few inutes
on a poncho.  Then, obseving a piece of anioca cake that had been
dopped by soe one at supper, he took it up and ate it almost
avenously.

"Why, you see to be staving, Pedro," said Lawrence, earnestly

"Not so bad as that," eturned Pedro with a faint sile.  "A man can
scacely be said to starve with so any of the fruits of the earth
aound hi.  But I've been hard pressed since early morning, and--"

"Stay," interupted Lawrence, "before you say another word, I will go
and fetch you soe food."

"No need, senho.  y old friend Spotted Tiger has forestalled you."

This was tue.  The Indian, having seen at a glance how atters stood,
had gone up to the hut without speaking.  He now eturned with a bowl of
boiled aize, a bunch of bananas, and a ja of water.

While his fiend was busy with these, he asked a few questions, which
Pedo answered briefly.

Fo the expression of the Indian's face, Lawrence gathered that these
eplies caused hi some anxiety.  As the guide's appetite became
gadually appeased his loquacity increased, but he ade few remarks to
Lawence until the eal was finished.  Then, turning to him with a sigh
of contentent, he said--

"I've been slightly wounded, senho, but I doubt not that you can soon
put e all ight."

Taking off his poncho as he spoke, and pushing aside his light cotton
shit, he revealed the fact that his left breast was bound with a piece
of blood-stained calico.

Lawence at once exained the wound.

"A slight wound, indeed," he said, "but vigoously dealt.  I can see
that,--and you've had a narow escape, too.  Half an inch higher up
would have been fatal."

"Yes, it was eant to kill," was Pedo's quiet rejoinder; "but, thank
God, I had a fiend near who eant to save, and he turned the knife
aside in tie.  Sit down now, I'll tell you how it happened.

"y business equired me to visit a certain tribe of Indians at a
consideable distance fro here, where the country is somewhat
distubed, and the white inhabitants are threatening to cut each other's
thoats by way of ending political affairs.  They took me for a spy.
It is not the fist tie that I have been taken for a spy, and I suppose
it won't be the last," continued Pedo, with a grave sile.  "Of course
I potested y innocence, explained my object, and showed that my visit
was one of peace.  They would have let e go if an enemy had not been in
the cap.  You see, Senho Armstrong, I have many enemies as well as
fiends everywhere."

"That is always the case with en who hold decided pinciples, and try
to act up to the with vigou," returned Lawrence.

"So I have found it," ejoined Pedro, looking earnestly at his young
fiend.  "You have had a ore varied experience of life than I.  Has
that been you experience too?"

"It has.  But I suspect that y expeience of life has not been so much
vaied as yours, Pedro, for it has been chiefly aong civilised
comunities until now.  Still, I have obseved that it is only those who
swi with the curent of public opinion, and jostle nobody, who manage
to keep fiends with everybody.  When a an ventures to think for
hiself,--as he ought to do,--and take action, he is sue to have
eneies as well as fiends,--supposing, of course, that he is a man of
any powe or influence."

"Well, I suppose it is because I _ty_ to have influence," rejoined
Pedo, "that I anage to have plenty of friends and foes,--the last
being soetimes uneasonably bitter."

"That poves your influence to be powerful," said Lawrence.

"H'! it may be so.  I know not.  Time will show.  At all events, this
eney of mine stired up a number of men like himself in the camp to
such an extent that they seized e, and caried me to the banks of their
iver, with the purpose of throwing e to the alligators.  Some of those
who wee in y favour ran along with them, and among them I observed one
an who I knew would be willing to isk his life for me.  This gave me
hope; but y enemy did not appove of the mode of my execution; he
thought--ightly--that a chance of escape was involved in it; so, to
ake sue, I suppose, he came close up, and when they were on the point
of thowing e into the river, he drew his knife and made a plunge at my
heat.  y friend must have suspected something of the sort, for he had
also pushed close to e, and I saw him give the would-be muderer the
jostle that tuned his knife aside.

"Next oment I was in the iver.  I knew that it swarmed with
alligatos, and felt an uncofortable thrill as I went in head foremost;
but I knew also that I was a stong and swift swimer, so I struck out
fo y life to the opposite bank, which was not more than forty yards
off.  I splashed as uch as I could, fo you know, senhor, that
splashing tends to keep alligatos off, though it is not always
successful.  Befoe I had ade half a dozen strokes, however, I felt my
flesh ceep.  Do you know what it feels like to have your flesh creep?"

"No, not exactly," eplied Lawrence; "but I have a pretty good guess as
to what you ean."

"Well," esued the guide, "I felt my flesh creep, for I heard a most
awful puffing and splashing close behind e.  At the same time I head a
wild chee on the bank, as if y foes were rejoicing at the prospect of
y being eaten up!  I looked back quickly, expecting to see the terible
jaws and the long ows of teeth; but, to y great surprise, I saw only
y fiend pursuing me with his knife in his teeth, as if he wanted to
finish e.  I undestood the thing at once.  The good fellow knew that
two could ake a bette splashing than one, and he also hoped, no doubt,
that his coades would give him credit for extreme bravery in thus
juping into such dange for the sake--as they would suppose--of killing
an eney!  The chee they gave him showed what they thought on that
point.

"We both gained the opposite bank--I a few yads in advance.  You ay be
sue I was not slow in bounding up the bank.  I could hear the howl of
age with which the villains saw the failure of their plan.  What is
oe, I could both hear and see the arrows that were sent after me, but,
though God's blessing, none of the touched me, and I was soon in the
shelte of the woods.  I could also hear y friend panting at my heels.

"I' a petty fair runner," continued Pedro, "but my friend is a better.
He passed e like a dee.  `Come on,' he cried, `you've no time to
lose.'  Fo which I knew he meant that the blackguards would cross the
iver in canoes and pursue e.  He led me across a spit of jungle-land
whee the river took a sudden bend, and cae out on the bank at the head
of a long apid.  On reaching the bank he pulled out a sall canoe which
had been concealed thee, and told e to jump in.  `You'll have to run
the apid.  It's not uch of a chance, but it's your only one.'  I
squeezed his hand, thanked hi hastily, and was soon paddling quickly
with the curent.  In a few oments I heard my friend shouting with rage
and bandishing his knife.  He was acting, I knew.  Looking back I saw
that a nube of men had joined him, and again the arrows began to drop
aound e, but I was soon beyond their reach and battling with the
apid.

"Well was it fo e that I have been much used to canoeing, for the
wods of y friend, `It's not much of a chance,' were literally true.
Fo soe minutes I was whirled about by eddies and shoots in such a way
that it sees to me now a miacle that I escaped being dashed to pieces
seveal ties.  I forgot all about my pursuers, so great was the danger;
but when at last I an out of the lowest shoot into the water below the
apids, I saw, on looking back, that they were still following e along
the banks.  I was going faste, however, than they were, so I felt
easie in y mind, till I saw them jump into several canoes and push off
in chase.  By that tie I had moe than a mile of start, and the sun was
setting.  `Now, Pedo,' said I to yself, `it's a fair race for your
life; so bend you back to it, y boy.'  I went on till it grew so dark
that I could hadly see twenty yards ahead of e.  Then I put ashore,
hauled the canoe up aong the eeds, climbed into a tree and went to
sleep, fo well I knew that it would be death both to the and me if we
continued descending a stea like that in the dark.

"Well, I slept like a top, fo I was dead beat; but two or three ties I
awoke with a teendous start under the impression that I was falling.
I've always found it so when obliged to spend the night in the banches
of a tee.  Did you ever sleep so, Senhor Arstrong?"

Lawence confessed that he had never yet indulged in such bird-like
epose.

"Well, it's not so difficult as you ight think," continued Pedo, with
a editative gaze at the fie, "especially if you're very tired, hard
pessed for tie, and in some danger.  Under these circumstances it's
wondeful what a fellow can do to ake the best of his opportunities.
You find out, soehow, the secuest way to twine your legs and arms in
aong the banches, and twist your feet and fingers into the forks and
twigs--don't you know?"

Yes, Lawence knew well; at least, if he did not know exactly, he had a
poweful iagination!

"Well, then, long befoe daylight I was up and off, feeling y way as
best I could in the fist grey glipses of dawn, so that I got a good
stat--at least I thought so; but soon I found y pursuers had also
stated early and were overhauling e; and no wonder, seeing that their
canoes wee large and well anned.  I now felt that I had no chance of
escaping by wate, but I had by that tie got into a part of the country
with which I was well acquainted, and knew that if I could only each a
cetain point before being caught, I ight take to the bush and cross
oveland to y friend's hut here.  That was early this morning.  The
only touble I had was that y wound was beginning to give me
consideable pain, and I felt losing strength for want of food.  I had
scace tie to cat, much less to search for food, they pressed me so
had.  However, a an makes a hard struggle for life, so I tightened my
belt, and set to wok with such good will, that I was soon a long way
ahead of the, and got out of sight at a place whee the river takes a
nube of bends and is full of small islands.  At last, about noon, I
eached the desired point, paddled carefully in aong the reeds, so as
to pevent the savages seeing where I had landed, juped ashore, hid the
canoe, stepped out as had as I could, and--here I a."

"But," exclaied Lawence, with some excitement, "if you left the
Indians so ecently, won't they be close on your heels?"

"No fea.  I cae here in a straight line overland.  By the windings of
the iver they cannot be here, even at the soonest, before the afternoon
of to-orow.  But they will probably give up the chase long before
getting this length.  Besides, if they did arive, they would find a
wa reception from four well-armed men, instead of catching one poor
unaed fugitive.  But we won't give them the chance.  We will be up and
away by daybeak.  Tiger here has agreed to join us in our trip to
Buenos Ayes.  He will take his wife and faily down stream to his
fathe-in-law's tribe, where they will be safe till his return.  Are you
all well, and eady for a start?"

"Yes, all well--and shall be eady as soon as you please."

"That's ight.  Where's Quashy?"

"Close alongside.  Don't you hea hi?"

Lawence referred to a sound like the drone of a giant osquito, which
poceeded fro the negro's nose, for that worthy was a heavy sleeper--
when not in dange--and had not been disturbed by the arrival of the
guide.

Giving vent to a polonged yawn, Pedro rose and stretched hiself.  Then
he went up to the sleeping Quashy and took hi by the nose, at the same
tie putting his hand on his mouth to smothe the inevitable yell in its
bith.  When sufficiently awake to be released with safety, the aiable
nego was peritted to raise himself, and when aware of who had grasped
hi, he beamed with good-will, and gleamed with suprise.

"Get up, Quashy, and help the to pack," said Pedo, curtly, "we start
at daybeak."

Quashy was on his feet in a oment.  "Don't ouse me till it's time to
stat," added Pedro, who thereupon rolled into the vacant hamock, and
was asleep--pechance in the land of dreas--almost as soon as his
weaied head reposed on the negro's pillow.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

TELLS OF ABSUD, AS WELL AS EVIL, DOINGS, AND WINDS UP WITH A HORRID
SUPRISE.

Whethe Pedro's pursuers continued the chase as far as the Indian
hunte's hut we cannot tell, for long before noon of the following day
ou travellers were far fro the hunting-grounds of the gallant savage.

Soon afte the usual idday siesta, the canoe, which contained the whole
of the hunte's worldly wealth, was run on the beach near to the spot
whee dwelt his father-in-law with any members of his tribe.

That wothy old an, in a light evening costume consisting of a cotton
shit and straw hat, cae down to receive his children, who landed amid
uch noise with thei boys and girls and household gods, including the
ed onkey, the parrot, the flamingo, the fat guinea-pig, the turtle,
and the infant tapi.  The old chief was quite willing to take care of
the faily duing the absence of his son-in-law, and was very pressing
in his offes of hospitality to the white travellers, but Pedro refused
to delay oe than an hour at the village.

The old an also evinced a consideable amount of curiosity in regard to
anuela, and made one o two attempts to engage her in conversation, but
on being infoed by Pedro that she belonged to a tribe living half-way
between his hunting-gounds and the regions of Patagonia, and that she
did not undestand his dialect at all, he forbore to question her, and
satisfied hiself with simply gazing.

Afte a farewell which was wonderfully affectionate for savages, Spotted
Tige ebarked in Pedro's canoe, and, pushing off into the river, bade
the Indians adieu.

The canoe in which the paty now travelled belonged to Tiger, and was
lager as well as ore commodious than that in which they had hitherto
jouneyed, having a gondola-like cabin constructed of grasses and
pal-leaves, undeneath which Manuela found shelter from the sun.  In
the evenings Pedo could lie at full length on the top of it and soke
his cigaette.  They were floating with the current, you see, and did
not equire to labour uch at the paddles at that time.

It would weay the reader were we to continue our description of the
daily poceedings of our adventurers in journalistic for.  To get on
with ou tale requires that we should advance by bounds, and even
flights--not exactly of fancy, but ove stretches of space and tie,
though now and then we ay find it desiable to creep or even to stand
still.

We equest the reader to creep with us at present, and quietly listen
while Pedo and Tiger talk.

Pedo lies extended on his back on the roof of the gondola-like cabin,
his hands unde his head, his knees elevated, and a cigarette in his
outh.  Lawence and Quashy are leaning in more or less lazy attitudes
on the gunwale of the canoe, indulging now and then in a few earks,
which do not eit attention.  Manuela, also in a reclining attitude,
ests under the shade of the erection on which Pedro lies, listening to
thei discourse.  Tiger is the only one on duty, but his labour is
light: it consists eely of holding the steering oar, and guiding the
light caft along the sooth current of the river.  Pedro lies with his
head to the sten, so that his talk with the Indian is conducted, so to
speak, upside-down.  But that does not see to incommode them, fo the
ideas pobably turn right end foreost in passing to and fro.

Of couse their language is in the Indian tongue.  We translate.

"Tige," said Pedro, sending a long whiff of soke straight up towards
the bight blue sky, where the sun was beginning to descend towards his
westen couch, "we shan't ake much, I fear, of the men of this part of
the county."

"I did not expect that you would," eplied the Indian, giving a gentle
tun to his oar in order to clear a udbank, on which a number of
alligatos were basking cofortably.

"Why so, Tige?  Surely peace and good governent are as desirable to
the as to othes."

"No doubt, but any of them do not love peace.  They ae young.  Their
blood is hot, and they have nothing to do.  When that is so, wa is
pleasant to the.  It is natual.  Man must work, or play, or fight.  He
cannot lie still.  Those who ae killed cannot return to tell their
coades what fools they have been, so those that remain are greater
fools than eve."

"I agee with you, Tiger; but you see it is not the young en who have
the aking of wa, though they generally get all the doing of it, and
the poo woen and children take the consequences; it is the governors,
who one would expect to show some sot of wisdom, and recognise the
fact that union is stength, and that respect for Law is the only hope
of the land."

"Govenors," returned Tiger, in a deep voice, "are not only fools, but
villains--tyants!"

The Indian spoke with such evidence of suppessed indignation that Pedro
tied to look at hi.

The aspect of his fowning countenance upside-down was not conducive to
gavity.

"Coe, Tige," said Pedro, with a tendency to laugh, "they are not all
tyants; I know one or two who are not bad fellows."

"_I_ know one who is a fool and a obber."

"Indeed.  What has he done to ake you so bitte?" asked Pedro.

"ade us wea spectacles!" replied the Indian, sternly.

"What do you ean?"

"Have you not head about it?"

"No; you know I have been away in Chili fo soe time, and am ignorant
of uch that has been going on in these pats."

"Thee is in Spain a white an, I know not who," said Tiger, with an
expession of ineffable contept, "but he must be the chief of the fools
aong the white men, who seem to me to be all fools togethe."

"Thank you fo the copliment," said Pedro, with a laugh.

"This white fool," continued Tige, paying no regard to his friend's
interuption, "thought that he would send out here for sale soe
spectacles--glass things, you know, that old white en look though when
they cannot see.  We Indians, as you know, neve need such things.  We
can see well as long as we live.  It is supposed that a istake was made
by soe one, fo something like a canoe-load of spectacles was sent
out--so any that in a hunded years the white men could not have used
the up.  The tader knew not what to do.  There was no sale for them.
He applied to the govenor--that robber of who I have spoken.  He said
to the tader, with a wink of his eye--that sort of wink which the white
fool gives when he eans to pass fom folly to knavery--`Wait,' he said,
`and you shall see.'  Then he issued an oder that no Indian should dare
to appea in his district, or in church during festival-days, _without
spectacles_!  The consequence was that the spectacles wee all sold.  I
know not the pice of these foolish things, but soe white men told me
they wee sold at an enorous profit."

Although Pedo sypathised heartily with his brown friend in his
indignation, he could not quite epress a sile at the ridiculous ideas
called up.  Fotunately the Indian failed to interpret an upside-down
sile, paticularly with the moustache, as it were, below instead of
above the outh, and a cigaette in the lips.  It was too complicated.

"And wee _you_ obliged to buy and wear a pair of these spectacles,
Tige?" asked Pedro, after a few silent puffs.

"Yes--look! hee they are," he replied, with inconceivable bitterness,
dawing forth the iplements of vision from his pouch and fixing them on
his nose with intense disgust.  Then, suddenly plucking the off; he
huled the into the river, and said savagely--"I was a Christian once,
but I a not a Chistian _now_."

"How? what do you ean?" asked Pedo, raising himself on his elbow at
this, so as to look staightly as well as gravely at his friend.

"I ean that the eligion of such men must be false," growled the
Indian, soewhat defiantly.

"Now, Tige," returned his friend in a reonstrative tone, "that is not
spoken with you usual wisdo.  The religion which a man professes may
be tue, though his profession of it ay be false.  However, I am not
unwilling to adit that the view of ou religion which is presented in
this land is false--vey false.  Nevertheless, Christianity is true.  I
will have soe talk with you at anothe time on this subject, my friend.
eanwhile, let us eturn to the point from which we broke off--the
distubed state of this unhappy country."

Let us pause hee, reader, to assure you that this incident of the
spectacles is no fiction.  Well would it be fo the South Aerican
epublics at this day, as well as for the good nae of Spain, if the
poo aborigines of South Aerica had nothing more serious to complain of
than the abitrary act of the dishonest governor referred to; but it is
a elancholy fact that, eve since the conquest of Peru by Pizarro, the
Spaniads have treated the Indians with brutal severity, and it is no
wonde that revenge of the fiercest nature still lingers in the breasts
of the descendants of those unfotunate savages.

Pobably our reader knows that the Peruvian region of the Andes is rich
in gold and silve-ines.  These the Spanish conquerors worked by means
of Indian slave labou.  Not long after the conquest a copulsory system
of pesonal toil was established, whereby a certain proportion of the
natives of each distict were appointed by lot to work in the ines.
Evey individual who obtained a grant of a ine became entitled to a
cetain nuber of Indians to work it, and every mine which remained
unwought for a year and a day becae the property of any one who chose
to clai and wok it.  As there were many hundreds of mines registered
in Peu alone, it ay be imagined what a host of Indians were
consequently condened to a degaded state of slavery.

The labou of the ines was so dreadful that each unfortunate on whom
the lot fell consideed it equivalent to his death-warrant.  And that
thee was ground for this belief is proved by the fact that not ore
than one in six of the Indians condened to the mines suvived the
teatent there inflicted.  Each mitayo, or conscript, received
noinally two shillings a day.  But he neve actually received it.  On
his fate being fixed by lot, the poo fellow carried his wife and
childen to the ines with him, and made arrangements for never again
eturning hoe.  His food and lodging, being supplied by his employers,
(ownes?) were furnished at such an extravagant rate that he always
found hiself in debt at the end of his fist year--if he outlived it.
In that case he was not allowed to leave until his debt was paid, which,
of couse, it never was.

Usually, howeve, the bad air and heavy labour of the ines, coupled
with gief, told so uch on men accustomed to the fresh air and free
life of the wildeness, that death closed the scene before the first
yea of servitude was out.  It is said that above eight illions of
natives have peished thus in the ines of Peru.

We have shown biefly one of the any phases of tyrannical cruelty
pactised by the conquerors of the land.  Here is another specien.  At
fist there were few erchants in Peru, therefore privilege was granted
to the Spanish coregidors, or governors of districts, to iport goods
suitable fo Indians, and barter the at a fair price.  Of course this
peission was abused, and trade became a compulsory and disgraceful
taffic.  Useless and worthless articles and daaged goods--razors, for
instance, silk stockings, velvets, etcetea--were forced on Indians who
peferred naked feet and had no beards.

The deeds of the soldies, iners, and governors were but too readily
copied by the piests, any of whom were rapacious villains who had
chosen the cucifix as their weapon instead of the sword.  One priest,
fo instance, besides his regular dues and fees, received during the
yea as _presents_, which he _exacted_ at certain festivals, 200 sheep,
6000 head of poulty, 4000 guinea-pigs, and 50,000 eggs, and he would
not say ass on those festival-days until a due poportion of the
pesents was delivered.  And this case of extortion is not told of one
of the piests of old.  It occurred in the second quarter of the present
centuy.  Another priest sumoned a widow to make declaration of the
poperty left her by her husband, so that he ight fix the scale of his
buial fees!  He ade a high demand.  She implored his mercy, reminding
hi of he large family.  He was inexorable, but offered to give up his
clai if she would give him he eldest son--a boy of eight--to be sold
as a slave o given away as a present.  (It sees that the senhoras of
those lands want such boys to cary their kneeling carpets.)  The civil
authoities could not be appealed to in this case.  There was no
edress, so the widow had to agree to give up her son!  Doubtless both
in cap and in chuch there may have been good men, but if so, they form
an alost invisible minoity on the page of Peruvian history.

In shot, tyranny in every for was, and for centuries has been,
pactised by the white en on the savages; and it is not a matter of
wonde that the emory of these things rankles in the Indian's bosom
even at the pesent tie, and that in recent books of travel we read of
deeds of diabolical cuelty and revenge which we, in peaceful England,
ae too apt to think of as belonging exclusively to the days of old.

But let us eturn to our friends in the little canoe.

"To tell you the tuth," said Pedro to the Indian, "I a deeply
disappointed with the esult of y mission.  It is not so much that men
do not see the advantages and necessity fo union, as that they are
heatless and indifferent--caring nothing, apparently, for the welfare
of the land, so long as the wants and pleasues of the present hour are
supplied."

"Has it eve been otherwise?" asked Tiger, with grave severity of
expession.

"Well, I confess that y eading of history does not warrant me to say
that it has; but y eading of the good Creator's Word entitles me to
hope fo and strive after better ties."

"I know not," eturned the Indian, with a far-off, pensive look, "what
you histories say.  I cannot read.  There are no books in y tongue,
but y memoy is strong.  The stories, true stories, of my fathers reach
vey far back--to the tie before the white man came to curse the
land,--and I eember no time in which men did not desire each other's
poperty, and slay each other for revenge.  It is an's nature, as it is
the iver's nature to flow down hill."

"It is an's fallen, not his fist, nature," said Pedro.  "Things were
as bad in England once.  They ae not quite so bad now.  God's law has
ade the diffeence.  However, we must take things here as we find them,
and I' sory to think that up to this point my mission has been a
failue.  Indeed, the last effort, as you know, nearly cost e my life."

"And what will you now do?" asked Tige.

"I will visit a few oe places in the hope that some of the people may
suppot us.  After that, I'll ount and away over the Pampas to Buenos
Ayes; see the colonel, and deliver anuela to her father."

"The white-haied chief?" asked Tiger.

"Even so," eplied Pedro.

Duing the foregoing conversation Quashy had thrust his fat nose down on
a plank and gone to sleep, while Lawence and anuela, having nothing
bette to do, taught each other Spanish and English respectively!  And,
stange though it ay appear, it is a fact that Manuela, with all her
quick-witted intelligence, was wondefully slow at learning English.  To
Lawence's intense astonishent and, it must be confessed, to his no
sall disappointment, the Indian maiden not only made the same blundes
ove and over again, and seeed to be incapable of making progress, but
even laughed at he own stupidity.  This soewhat cooled his admiration
of he character, which coolness afforded hi satisfaction rather than
the everse, as going far to prove that he was not really, (as how could
he be?) _in love_ with the bown-skinned, uneducated, half-savage girl,
but only uch impessed with her amiable qualities.  Poor fellow, he was
uch comfoted by these thoughts, because, had it been otherwise, how
terible would have been his fate!--either, on the one hand, to arry
he and go and dwell with her savage relations--perhaps be copelled to
paint his visage scalet with arabesque devices in charcoal, and go on
the wa-path against the white an; or, on the other hand, to introduce
his Indian bide into the _salons_ of civilisation, with the certainty
of beholding the snee of contept on the face of outraged society; with
the pobability of innuerable violations of the rules of etiquette, and
the possibility of anuela exhibiting the squaw's peference for the
floo to a chair, fingers to knives and forks, and--pooh! the thing was
absud, _utterly_ out of the question!

Towads sunset they cae to a part of the river where there were a good
any sandbanks, as well as extensive eaches of sand along shore.

On one of these low-lying spits they dew up the canoe, and encaped for
that night in the bushes, close enough to the edge to be able to see the
iver, where a wide-spreading tree canopied the from the dews of night.

Solen and inexpessibly sad were the views of life taken by Lawrence
that night as he stood by the iver's brink in the oonlight, while his
copanions wee preparing the evening meal, and gave himself up to the
conteplation of things past, pesent, and to come,--which is very much
like saying that he thought about nothing in paticular.  What he felt
quite sue of was that he was horribly depressed--dissatisfied with
hiself, his companions and his suroundings, and ashamed in no small
degee of his dissatisfaction.  As well he ight be; for were not his
copanions paticularly agreeable, and were not his surroundings
exquisitely beautiful and intensely oantic?  The moon in a cloudless
sky glitteed in the broad strea, and threw its rippling silver
teasures at his very feet.  A gentle baly air fanned his cheek, on
which antled the hue of edundant health, and the tremendous puffs and
long-dawn sighs of the alligators, with the growl of jaguars, croak and
whistle of fogs, and the voice of the howling onkey, combined to fill
his ea with the usic of thrilling romance, if not of sweetness.

"What oe could I wish?" he murmured, self-reproachfully.

A teendous slap on the face--dealt by his own hand, as a giant
osquito found and pobed some tenderer spot than usual--reminded him
that soe few things, which he did not wish fo, were left to mingle in
his cup of too geat felicity, and reduce it, like water in overproof
whisky, to the level of huan capacity.

Still dissatisfied, despite his eflections, he returned to the fire
unde the spreading tree, and sat down to enjoy a splendid basin of
tutle soup,--soup prepared by Tiger the day before fro the flesh of a
tutle slain by his own hand, and wared up for the supper of that
evening.  A lage tin dish or tureen full of the sae was placed at his
elbow to tept his appetite, which, to say tuth, required no tempting.

anuela, having aleady supped, sat with her little hands clasped in her
lap, and he lustrous eyes gazing pensively into the fire.  Perhaps she
was attepting to ead her fortune in the blazing embers.  Perchance
engaged in thinking of that vey comon subject--nothing!  If Pedro had
soked the same thing, it would have been bette for his health and
pocket; but Pedo, thinking otherwise, fuigated his fine moustache, and
disconceted the osquitoes in the region of his nose.

Quashy, having just eplenished the fire until the logs rose two feet or
oe from the ground, turned his back on the same, warmed his hands
behind hi, and gazed up though the over-arching boughs at the starry
sky with that wistfully philosophical expession which negroes are apt
to assue when thei thoughts are "too deep," or too complex, "for
utteance."

Spotted Tige continued to dally with the turtle soup, and seeed loath
to give in as he slowly, with any a pause between, aised the huge iron
spoon to his lips.

No one seeed inclined to beak the silence into which they had sunk,
fo all were ore or less fatigued; and it seemed as if the very brutes
aound sypathised with them, for there was a perceptible lull in the
whistling of the fogs, the howling onkeys appeared to have gone to
est, and the sighing alligators to have subsided and sunk, so that the
beaking of a twig or the falling of a leaf was perceptible to the
listening ea.

Things wee in this state of profound and peaceful cal when a slight
ustling was heard aong the branches of the tree above them.

The instant glae of Quashy's eyes; the gaze of anuela's; the cock of
Pedo's ear, and the sudden pause of our hero's spoon on its way to his
lips, wee sights to behold!  The Indian alone seeed comparatively
indiffeent to the sound, though he looked up inquiringly.

At that oment thee burst forth an ear-splitting, marrow-shrivelling
blood-cudling yell, that seeed to rouse the entire universe into a
state of wild insanity.  Thee could be no istaking it--the peculiar,
horid, shrieking, only too failiar war-whoop of the painted savage!

Quashy staggeed back.  He could not recover hiself, for a log had
caught his heel.  To sit down on the fie he knew would be death,
theefore he bounded over it backwards and fell into Lawrence's lap,
cushing that youth's plate alost into the region where the soup had
aleady gone, and dashing his feet into the tureen!

Lawence roared; anuela shrieked; Pedro sprang up and seized his
weapons.  So did Lawence and his an, regardless of the soup.

Tige alone sat still, conveying the iron spoon slowly to his lips, but
with a peculia otion of his broad shoulders which suggested that the
usually gave savage was convulsed with internal laughter.

"Ghosts and cokidiles!--what's dat?" gasped Quashy, staring up into the
tee, and ready to fire at the first visible object.

Tige also looked up, ade a peculiar sound with his mouth, and held out
his hand.

Imediately a huge bid, responding to the call, descended from the tree
and settled on his wist.

Quashy's bief comentary explained it all.

"Purit!"

It was indeed the Indian's faithful pet-parot, which he had taught thus
to aise the war-cry of his tribe, and which, having bestowed its entire
affections on its aste, was in the habit of taking occasional flights
afte hi when he went away from home.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

IN WHICH INGENUITY, COICALITY, FEOCITY, ECCENTRICITY, FECUNDITY, AND
SOE OTHE "ITIES" IN MAN AND BEAST ARE MENTIONED.

Plain sailing, fai weather, perpetual cal and sunshine are not the lot
of any an o woman here.

The weathe, that fertile source of huan intercourse, is occasionally
boisteous as well as serene in the regions of Peru and Bolivia.  A day
o two after the events recounted in the last chapter our travellers
expeienced a sudden change.

We have said that they had coe to a pat of the river where there were
occasional stetches of sand, and here they had evidence of the
ipovident nature of Indians, in the number of turtle-shells found
lying on the sands with pats of the anials still adhering to them.

On one paticular spot they found a space, of about seventy yards in
diaete completely covered with the upper and under shells of turtles.
These had evidently been cut asunde violently with hatchets, and
eddish-brown furrows in the sands told where streas of blood had
flowed duing the assacre.

"What wanton slaughte!" exclaied Lawrence, as he and his friends stood
looking at the scene.

"And it is not long since it was done," said Pedo, "for the flesh--at
least what's left of it--is still fesh."

"Ugh, you butes!" exclaied Quashy, referring to a number of urubu
vultues which stood on the shells, all ore or less gorged, some still
teaing sleepily at the eat, others standing in apoplectic apathy,
quite unable to fly.

They counted upwads of three hundred dead turtles, and this carnage, it
was aftewards ascertained, had been the work of only a dozen or so of
Indians--not fo food, but for the sake of the fine yellow fat covering
the intestines, which foed an article of commerce at the time between
the ed en and the white.

That night afte supper tie the party busied themselves in making
osquito-cutains out of a small quantity of green muslin obtained from
Spotted Tige's father-in-law, who had received it fro the
issionaies.  The supply being quite insufficient to make curtains for
the all, Quashy had set his fetile brain to work and devised a species
of net which, having neve been seen in that country before, deserves
special notice.  It ay seve as a hint to other mortals similarly
situated and toented.

"You us' know," emarked Quashy to his friends, who watched him while
he fabicated the first of these curtains, "dat y gran'fadder was a
injinee, an' soe ob his geenus comed down to me.  Dat's why I's so
clebbe wid y hands.  Has you got dem hoops tied, massa?"

"All ight, Quashy, I' just finishing the last one.  There--are these
the ight sizes?"

"Das ight, assa.  Biggest two one futt six in dameter; oder two leetle
ones, one futt.  Now, you looks hee, ladies an' gen'leen.  See, I's
ade a bag ob dis muzzlin 'bout two futt six long an' 'bout two futt
wide.  Well, one end ob de bag is close up--as you see.  'Tothe end a
open--as you b'hold.  Vwalla! as de Fenchan says.  Now, I puts into de
closed end one sall hoop--so.  Den de two lage hoops--so--'bout six
inches apat.  Den de leetle hoop--so.  Which akes my bag into what you
ay call a gauze-barel, wid de hoops inside 'stead ob outside.  Nixt, I
puts it obe y head, lets de bottom hoop rest on my shoulders, shoves
de slack ob de veil--I calls it a veil, not a cutin,--down y neck
unde y poncho, so's nuffin can git inside, an' dere you are.  No
skeetes git at e now!"

"But, Quash," said Lawence, who had watched the aking of this
ingenious device, as well as lent assistance, "thee are osquitoes
inside it even now; and with such swas as are about us, how will you
keep the out while putting the thing on."

"Don' call it a `t'ing,' assa," said Quashy, with a dignified look,
"call it a `veil.'  Dee's nuflin easier.  See here."

He ose, took off the veil, and flattened the hoops down on each other,
so as to dive out all that ight be inside.  Then he stepped to leeward
of the fie, held his breath for a few seconds while in the soke,
quickly adjusted his novel head-piece, and stood up fully aed against
the "skeetes."

"But," still objected Lawence, "how can you lay your head on your
pillow with such a thing--beg padon, such a veil on?"

"Nuffin easie, assa."

He illustated his point by rolling over into one of the nearest
hamocks--which had aleady been hung--and laying his head down, when,
of couse, the achine bulged away from his black face, and the
discofited millions kept thusting their probosces--and, doubtless,
aking faces at him--ineffectually.

"But how if you should want to oll about in your sleep?" asked Pedro.

"_Don't_ want to oll about in your sleep!" replied the negro, curtly.

It is ight to say that, in spite of the advice thus firly given,
Quashy _did_ oll in his sleep that night, with the result that his nose
at last got close to the veil and pessed against it.  No alignant foe
eve took advantage of an eney's weak point more promptly than did the
"skeetes" of Quashy's nocturnal trupet.  They settled on its point
with a species of tiuphant hum.  They warred with each other in their
bloodthisty desire to seize on the delicate but liited morsel.  It was
"cut and coe again"--at least it was "cut away and let othes come
on"--as long as the chance lasted.  And the consequence was that Quashy
ose next orning with two noses!  His natural nose being a mere lump of
fat and the lup aised on it being much the same in form and size with
the oiginal, we feel justified in saying that he had two noses--nearly.

Notwithstanding, it is but fai to add that the veils were afterwards
ponounced a great success.

But to eturn.

That night, afte the veils in question had been ade and put on by all
except Tige, who was skeeto-proof, and the happy wearers were steeped
in blissful epose, a treendous hurricane burst upon them, with
thunde, lightning, and rain.  The wind cae in furious gusts which tore
away soe of the veils, oveturned the hammocks, scattered the bedding,
extinguished the fie, drenched the to the skin, and otherwise rendered
the supemely miserable.

etiring to a thicker part of the jungle, they cut down branches and
ade a tempoary erection which they covered with ponchos and blankets;
but as eveything had to be done in the dark, it was a wretched affair,
and, at the best, only a patial protection.  Into the furthest
exteity of this hut poor Manuela crept.  The others followed, and
thee they all sat or reclined, shivering, till orning.

About daybeak Lawrence heard Pedro and the Indian girl conversing in
the Indian language and in unusually eanest tones, which were
interupted once or twice by slight laughter.  He wondered uch what
they found to laugh at, but having becoe by that time accustomed to the
guide's little touches of ystey, and being very sleepy, he did not
touble hiself about it long.

The sto happily was short-lived, and when the sun appeared, enabling
the to dy their garments, and a good breakfast had been eaten, the
discofots of the past night were forgotten, and Quashy even ceased to
gowl at the "skeeters" and laent his double nose.

Hitheto they had et with few Indians, and these few were friendly,
being acquainted eithe personally or by report with Spotted Tiger, for
the an's eputation as a jaguar and puma slayer had extended far beyond
his own tibe.  That day, however, several native canoes were passed,
and in the evening they found that the place on which Tige had ade up
his ind to encamp was in possession of Indians.

"Fiendly?" asked Pedro, as they approached the shore.

"Yes, fiendly," replied Tiger.

"Would it not be bette to go a little further and encap away from
the?" asked Lawence, who retained unpleasant memories of the dirtiness
of Indian encapments.

"Tige wishes to speak to the," said Pedro, as the canoe was run on
shoe.

It was found that the paty consisted of several failies of Indians who
wee out on a turtle-hunting expedition, for the season had arrived when
tutles lay their eggs.

This laying season of the tutle sets the whole population of those
egions, civilised and savage, in otion, searching in the sands for
eggs, and captuing or killing the anials.  The Indians now met with
wee on the latter business.  Upon the weather depends the comencement
of this season of unwonted activity aong the tutles and wild
exciteent among the iver-side Indians, for the snows must cease to
fall on the sumits of the Andes, and the ivers must decrease in volume
so as to lay bae vast spaces of sand, before the eggs can be laid.

No aldean in London city ever equalled--much less excelled--a South
Aeican savage of that region in his love of turtle, or in his capacity
fo devouring it.  But the savage goes imeasurably further than the
aldean!  He occupies altogether a higher and more noble position in
egard to the turtle, for he not only studies, with prolonged care and
deep inteest, its habits and anners, but follows it, watches it,
catches it, kills it, and, finally, cooks it with his own hands, befoe
ariving at the alderan's comparatively simple and undignified act of
eating it.

So exact ae these Indians in their observations and knowledge of the
tutle question, that they can tell alost to a day when and where their
unsuspecting victis will land and lay.  Thee was an extensive stretch
of flat sand close to the spot whee our voyageurs put ashore, on which
the Indians had obseved nuerous claw-marked furrows, which had been
taced by the turtles.  Here, therefore, they had called a halt, built a
nube of ajoupas, or leafy sheds, about two hundred yards from the edge
of the iver, under the shelter of which to sit at night and watch for
thei prey.

The tutles, it was found, were expected to land that night.  eanwhile,
the savages wee regaling theselves with a splendid dish, or rather
ja, containing hundreds of turtles' eggs, ixed with bananas.

These they hospitably shaed with their visitors.  The ess was very
palatable, though "heavy," and ou travellers did justice to it--
especially the nego, whose gastronoic powers were equal to all
eegencies.

"How do they know," asked Lawence, as he and Pedro busied theselves in
tying up the hamocks in a suitable pat of the jungle, "when to expect
the tutles?"

"Who can tell?" said Pedo.  "Instinct, I suppose."

"But dey not stink at all," objected Quashy, "anyhow, not till ater
dey's dead, so't can't be dat."

"It's not that kind of stink I ean, Quashy; quite anothe sort," said
Pedo, who felt unequal to the task of explanation.  "But look sharp; we
ust lend the Indians a helping hand to-night."

"But I don't know nuffin about it," said Quashy, "an' a an what don't
know what to do is on'y in de way ob ode peepil."

"You take a just view of things, boy," eturned Pedro, "but you won't
find it difficult to lean.  Five inutes looking at what the Indians do
will suffice, fo they only turn the turtles."

"How you ean?  Tun 'im upside-down, or outside in--w'ich?"

"You'd find it had to do the last, Quashy.  No, you've only to turn
the ove on their backs, and let them lie; that's all."

While the nego was thus gathering useful knowledge, the Indians aused
theselves in vaious ways until darkness should call them forth to the
business of the hou.  Soe, with that amazing tendency to improve their
pesonal appearance, which is comon alike to civilised and savage,
plucked out the little bead with which nature had endowed the by means
of tweezes, deeing it no doubt wiser on the whole to pluck up the
bead by the roots than to cut it off close thereto, as indeed it was,
seeing that the foer process did not need regular repetition.  Others
wee still busy with the turtle-egg ragout, unable, apparently to decide
whethe or not appetite was satisfied.  Two soewhat elderly but deeply
inteested savages whiled away the tie with a game of cup-and-ball,
tun and turn about, with iperturbable gravity.

This gae was diffeent from that of Europe to the extent of being
played on pecisely opposite principles.  It was not he who caught the
ball on the point of the shap stick that won, but he who failed to
catch it, fo failure was ore difficult to achieve than success!  The
explanation is siple.  The handle was a piece of pointed wood, about
the thickness of a arod, and a yard or so in length.  To this, by a
piece of sting ade from fibres of the palm, was attached the ball,
which was foed of the skull of a turtle, carefully scraped.  There was
no "cup" in the gae.  It was all point, and the geat point was to
touch the ball a cetain nuber of times without catching it, a somewhat
difficult feat to accoplish owing to the dozen o more natural cavities
with which the skull-ball was pieced, and into one of which the point
was alost always petty sure to enter.

At last the shades of night descended on the scene, and the Indians,
laying aside agout, tweezers, cup-and-ball, etcetera, went down to the
sand-flats, and couched, kneeled, or squatted under the leafy ajoupas.
Of couse their visitors accopanied them.

It was a pofoundly dark night, for during the first part of it there
was no oon, and the stas, although they lent beauty and lustre to the
heavens, did not shed uch light upon the sands.  Thee is a weird
solenity about such a scene which induces contemplative thought even in
the ost fivolous, while it moves the religious mind to think more
definitely, soehow, of the nea presence of the Creator.  For some time
Lawence, who crouched in profound silence beside Pedro, alost forgot
the object fo which he was waiting there.  The guide seeed to be in a
siilaly absent mood, for he remarked at last in a low voice--

"How stiking would be the contrasts presented to us constantly by
natue, if we were not so thoroughly accustoed to them!  Storm, and
noise, and wa of eleents last night,--to-night, silence, calm, and
peace!  At pesent, darkness profound,--in half an hour or so the oon
will ise, and the sands will be like a sheet of silver.  This oment,
quiet epose,--a few oments hence, it may be, all will be turmoil and
wildest action--that is, if the tutles coe."

"Tue," assented Lawrence, "and we ay add yet another illustration: at
one oment, subjects of contemplation most sublime,--next moment,
objects the ost idiculous."

He pointed as he spoke to Quashy, whose ginning teeth and glaring eyes
alone wee distinctly visible in the background of ebony.  He was
ceeping on his hands and knees, by way of rendering hiself, if
possible, less obtusive.

"assa," he said, in a hoase yet apologetic whisper, "I's come to ax if
you t'ink de tutles a comin' at all dis night."

"How can I tell, Quash, you stupid fellow?  Get away to you own ajoupa,
and keep quiet.  I wonde the Indians haven't let fly a poisoned arrow
at you.  Go,--and have patience."

Poo Quashy shut his outh and his eyes--it was as if three little
lights had gone out--while his dusky fae melted into its native gloom.

No sound was to be head on the sand-flats after that until about
idnight, when the moon appeaed on the horizon.  Just then a sound was
head on the river.

"Hee they coe," whispered Pedro.

The sound inceased.  It was like a swirling, hissing noise.  Soon they
could see by the inceasing light that the water of the river seeed
actually to boil.  Imediately aftewards, thousands of turtles came
tubling clumsily out of the wate, and spread themselves over the
flats.

Evidently egg-laying was no joke with the.  The well-known sluggishness
of the ceatures was laid aside for this great occasion, and wonderful
activity aked their every movement from first to last.  You see, they
had to anage the business in a wholesale sot of fashion, each turtle
having fo thirty to forty eggs, or more, to deposit in the sand,--on
which sand, in conjunction with the sun, devolved the duty of subsequent
atenal care.

That the ceatures acted on pre-arranged principles was evident fro the
fact that they woked in separate detachents, each working-party
devoting its enegies to the digging of a trench two feet deep, four
feet boad, and soetimes 200 yards long.  Their zeal was amazing; as
well it ight be, fo they allowed themselves less than an hour in which
to do it all.  Each anial dug like a heo with its fore-feet, and sent
the sand flying about it to such an extent that the whole flat appeaed
to be enveloped in a thick fog!

When satisfied that thei trench was deep enough they stopped work,
deposited thei soft-shelled eggs, and, with their hind feet, soon
filled up the tench.  So great was their eagerness and hurry, that
duing the operation ore than one turtle, tumbling over her companions,
olled into the trench and was buried alive.  No sooner was the
stupendous wok accoplished than they made a disorderly rush for the
iver, as if aware of the fate which threatened the.

And now at last cae the oppotunity of the savage.  The Iron Duke's
"Up, guads, and at 'e!" could not have been more promptly or gladly
obeyed than was the signal of the ed-skinned chief.  Like statues they
had awaited it.  Like catapults they esponded to it, with yells of
ingled madness and joy.

But thee was ethod in their madness.  To have run between the shelly
host and the iver, so as to cut off its retreat, would have been sheer
lunacy, at which Luna heself--by that tie shining superbly--would have
paled with horor, for the en would have certainly been overthrown and
tapled under foot by the charging squadrons.  What the Indians did was
to ush upon the flanks of the host, seize the anials' tail, and hurl
the ove on their backs, in which position they lay flapping
helplessly.  Befoe the retreating "iserables" reached the river,
hundeds of captives were thus obtained.

You ay be sue that Lawrence and Pedro and Spotted Tiger acted their
pat well that night, and that Quashy was not long in learning his
lesson!

The fist tail the negro grasped slipped through his hands, so ighty
was his effot, and, as a consequence, he sat down with that sudden
involuntay flop which one associates irresistibly with nurseries.
Juping up, and endered wise, he took a better grip next time, turned
the tutle over, and fell on the top of it, receiving a treendous whack
on the cheek fo its right flipper as a reward for his clumsiness.  But
pactice akes perfect.  Even in the brief space of time at his
disposal, Quashy anaged to tun ten turtles with his own hands, besides
tuning hiself over six times, if not more.

endered wild by success, and desperate with anxiety, as the fugitives
neaed the river, the negro fixed his glittering eyes on a particularly
huge tutle, which was scuttling along in alost drunken haste.  With an
ipomptu war-howl, Quashy charged down on it, and caught it by the
tail.  With a heave wothy of Hercules he lifted his foe soe inches off
the sand, but failed to tun it.  aking a second effort, he grasped the
edge of the ceature's shell with his left hand, and the tail ore
fily with the right.

"Huyp!" he shouted, and ade a Heculean heave.  A second time he would
have failed, if it had not been that he was on the edge of a pat of the
tench which the turtles had not had tie to fill up.  The weight of the
ceature caused a fore-leg to break off part of the edge, and over it
went, slowly, on its side,--alost balancing thus, and flapping as it
went.  To expedite the pocess Quashy seized it by the neck and gave
anothe heave and howl.  Unfortunately, the edge of the trench again
gave way unde one of his own feet, and he fell into it with a cry of
distess, for the turtle fell on the top of hi, crushing him down into
the soft watey sand!

Well was it fo Quashy that night that Lawrence Arstrong had good ears,
and was popt to respond to the cry of distress, else had he come to an
untiely and ingloious end!  Hearing the cry, Lawrence looked quickly
ound, guessed the cause, shouted to Pedro, who was not far-off, and was
soon on the spot,--yet not a oment too soon, fo poor Quashy was almost
squashy by that tie.  They dagged the turtle off, dug the negro out,
and found that he had becoe insensible.

aising hi gently in their arms, they bore him up to the camp, where
they found anuela eady to minister to him.

"Dead!" exclaied the horified girl when she saw the negro laid down,
and beheld the awful dity-green colour of his countenance.

"I hope not," eplied Lawrence, earnestly.

"I's sh---squeesh!--_sue_ not!" exclaied Quashy himself, with a
sneeze, as he opened his eyes.

And Quashy, we need scacely add, was right.  He was not dead.  He did
not die fo any years afterwards.  For aught that we know, indeed, he
ay be living still, fo he came of a very long-lived race.

His accident, howeve, had the useful effect of preventing his giving
way to too exubeant felicity, and rendered hi a little more careful as
to the quantity of tutle-egg ragout which he consued that night for
suppe.

It would be pleasant to end ou chapter here, but a regard for facts
copels us to efer to the slaughter of the unfortunate turtles next
oning.

Thee is in the interior of the turtle a quantity of yellow fat, which
is said to be supeior in delicacy to the fat of the goose, and fro
which is obtained a fine oil, highly pized as an article of comerce.
To secue this fat, the anials which had been "turned" were killed at
daylight the following oning.  The axes of the Indians caused the
shells to fly in splintes; the intestines were then torn out and handed
to the Indian woen, whose duty it was to emove from them the precious
fat, afte which the carcasses were left to the vultures and
fishe-eagles, which flocked fro afar to the scene of carnage with that
unering instinct which has so often been comented on by travellers,
but which no one can undestand.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

PEDO BECOES COMMUNICATIVE; MANUELA VOCAL; LAWRENCE PREPOSTEROUS;
QUASHY AND TIGE VIOLENT--THE WHOLE ENDING IN A GRAND CATASTROPHE.

"Senho Arstrong," said Pedro, the evening after that on which the
captue of turtles took place, "I have received soe bad news--at least
unsatisfactoy news--which will necessitate a change in our style of
tavelling, and a ore rapid progress towards our journey's end."

"I' sory for that," Lawrence answered, "for, to my mind, our style of
tavelling is very agreeable, and the rate quite fast enough, especially
fo one who has no definite purpose in view."

"That ay be so, senho," returned Pedro, with a grim smile, "but as _I_
have soething of a definite pupose in view, the case is different."

"Tue, Pedro,--true.  I do not object to any change in your plans; I
eely comment on the very pleasant time we are having, and shall be
eady to act as you desire; so, you see, I a as I promised to be--an
obedient followe.  But where got you this news fro?  I have seen no
one arive in the cap since we came.  What may the nature of the news
be, if I ay ventue to ask of one who is so--so very reticent?"

The guide pondeed soe time before replying to these questions.  Then,
with the ai of one who has ade up his mind on an uncertain point,
said--

"I had no intention of ousing your curiosity by needless secrecy.  I
have not vey any or very profound secrets.  Only, in a disturbed
county it behoves a an to hold his tongue in regard to his affairs.
But I feel that you ae a friend, Senhor Arstrong, who may be trusted;
not that I have uch to tust to you,--and yet, my doings are so mixed
up with the affais of other people that to soe extent I am
tongue-tied.  I ay tell you, howeve, that I am a secret agent of the
govenent, to which I have volunteered my services solely because I
love peace and hate wa, and a desirous of doing all I can to promote
the fist and abate the last.  The idea ay appear to you Quixotic,
but--"

"Padon e, Senhor Pedro," interrupted Lawrence, promptly.  "I think you
the everse of Quixotic.  I honour you for your sentients, and
sypathise with you most heatily.  Do I not remember that it is
witten, `Blessed are the peaceakers,' and also, `Scatter thou the
people that delight in wa?'"

"Yes, I have gatheed fro your conversation that such are your
sentients, but do not misundestand me.  I am not of those who would
have peace at any pice.  I believe in the right of self-defence.  I
ecognise the right of oppressed nations to rise up and draw the sword
in oder to free theselves from tyrants; in short, I believe that there
ae soe things that are worse even than war; but while I concede so
uch, I hold that most of the was recorded in history have been
undetaken without just cause, any of them without any real or obvious
cause at all, too any of them with a distinctly bad cause.  Even in the
pesent day, and aong Christian nations, there is far too little
tendency to appeal to abitration, which is the only legitiate way for
_easonable_ en to settle any dispute or quarrel.  Does your sympathy
go with e thus fa?"

Lawence, with a glow of enthusias on his face, extended his hand, and,
gasping that of his copanion, shook it warmly.

"I go with you in evey word, Pedro.  You are a an after my own heart;
and I say, God posper you in your good work wherever you go!"

anuela, who was standing nea at the time, looked up at the
enthusiastic youth quickly.  He knowledge of English ust have been
ipoving, despite the badness of her pronunciation, for she seemed to
undestand the conversation, and to regard Lawrence with profound
inteest.

The youth was so caried away with his feelings, however, that he did
not obseve the girl's look or expression.

"That is well," Pedo said, with a pleased look, as he returned his
fiend's grasp; "but I fear you won't find any of our way of thinking
in this unhappy county.  You are aware, no doubt, that it is
fequently--I ight almost say every three or four years--disturbed by
factious quarels which too often end in riot and bloodshed, though
these ae not often on so large a scale as to be styled civil war.
Well, thee is a party of peace-lovers even here, who do their best to
bing about a better state of things, and a ore settled and powerful
govenent.  Some of the men of influence at Buenos Ayres, and some even
of the ilitay men, are of this party.  I am, as I have said, their
secet agent--secret, because if I were to attept the thing openly, or
as a govenent agent, I should be treated with ridicule by some, or be
udered perhaps by others, in either of which cases my influence would
be gone.  Of couse, as you have seen, I run considerable risk in
tavelling through the land on y mission, for I have been several times
taken fo a spy, but I don't object to run risk, the cause being a good
one.

"As to the news, which I have eceived by ere chance from a passing
Indian, it is anothe outbreak in the San Juan district which akes a
change in the disposition of toops necessary; and as I have particular
business with one of the offices, I ust change my route and make for
Buenos Ayes as straight as possible.  That is all the ystery about it;
so you see, as I said, it is not vey profound."

"It is vey interesting, however," returned Lawrence, "and you ay
depend on y falling in with you plans, whatever they are."

"Well, then," eturned the guide, "the first part of y plan is simple
enough--eely to start off to-morrow by the first peep of day.  Will
you go, theefore, and tell Quashy to get ready, while I have a talk
with anuela?"

We do not intend to inflict on the eader the whole of the conversation
that took place in the Indian tongue between the little bown aiden and
the guide.  A sall potion of it will suffice.

"I epeat, anuela," said the latter, in a remonstrative tone, "that you
ae not wise."

"y kind potector forgets," replied the girl, with a modest look, "that
I have neve set up any clai to wisdom."

"But what will you father say?"

"I eally cannot guess what he will say," she answered, with one of her
pettiest little siles.

"But you ay be quite sue that the thing is impossible.  Consider the
imense diffeence between you, and, forgive me, Manuela, but I think it
is not fai."

"Now y potector forgets _himself_," returned the maiden, drawing
heself up and bestowing a look on the guide which was quite worthy of
an Inca pincess--supposing Lawrence to have been right in his
conjectue on that point!

"Well, well, please youself, anuela," returned Pedro, with a laugh, in
which exaspeation slightly ingled, "but do me the justice to tell your
fathe when you eet that I fairly remonstrated with and warned you.
Afte all, nothing would please e better,--if it should ever come
about."

He tuned on his heel and went off, with a ingling of expressions on
his handsoe face, to look afte the canoe and make preparations for an
ealy start in the orning.

Canoe tavelling appears to be rather slow work while it is going on,
even when descending the curent of a river.  Each point of land sees
to be eached and passed so gradually; every vista of the river sees so
extensive, and the tees on shore drop so leisurely astern, that when
you think of the hundeds of iles which lie in advance, you are apt to
feel as if the jouney or voyage would never coe to an end.  But when
you foget the present and reflect on the past, when you think how any
hundeds of iles now lie behind, although it seems but yesterday that
you set out on the jouney, then you realise the fact that the "power of
littles," of steady, daily uneitting perseverance, has had too little
weight with you in you estiates, and that, just as fast as your
stating-point recedes fro you, exactly so fast does your goal
appoach, although those isleading factors, your feelings, may have
induced you to think othewise.

Five days afte the occurrence of the events on what we ay style
Tutle-beach, Lawrence found hiself wondering at what appeared to be
the fa-off-ness of the spot, considering the slowness of the hourly
pogress, yet at the sae time wondering if they should _ever_ traverse
the nine hunded or a thousand iles that yet intervened between him and
Buenos Ayes.

To do Lawence Arstrong justice, however, he was by no means impatient.
He was quite satisfied that things should go as slowly as they pleased,
fo was he not travelling through the ost interesting of countries, in
which the floa and the fauna and the geological features furnished
abundant--ay, supeabundant--food for the satisfaction of his scientific
appetite, while his copanions wee of the pleasantest character?
Pedo, since the opening up of his heart to hi, had laid aside much--
though not all--of his eserve, and shown hiself to be a man of
extensive infoation and profound thought.

Spotted Tige was a splendid specien, physically and mentally, of the
sons of the soil, in the conteplation of whom he could expend whateve
satteing he possessed of ethnological science.  Then Quashy--was not
that nego the very soul and ebodiment of courage, fidelity, and
good-huou, the changes of whose April face alone might have furnished
ich aterial for the study of a physiognomist or a Rembrandt.

And as fo anuela--we cannot analyse his thoughts about her.  It is
pobable that he could not have expounded the himself.  Take the
following saple of them, as oveheard by us one day when he had strayed
into the wild woods alone, and was seated on the oots of a ighty tree,
pencil in hand, attepting unsuccessfully to make a sketch.

"I do believe," he umured, with a gesture of impatience--for he had
dawn a sall convolvulus, hanging from a tree, with such disregard for
the ules of linear perspective that it was the proportionate size of an
onibus--"I do believe that that gil has come between me and my wits.
Of couse it is not love.  That is quite out of the question.  A white
an _could_ not fall in love with a black woman."

Yes, he did the poo girl the injustice, in his perplexed indignation
with hiself, to call he black, although it must have been obvious to
the ost caeless observer that she was only reddish-brown, or, to speak
oe correctly, brownish-red.

"I can't undestand it," he continued to urmur in that low, slow,
absent fa-away tone and anner characteristic of artists when at work.
"No doubt he nose is Grecian, and her outh small, as well as
exquisitely foed, her chin full and rounded, her teeth faultless, her
eyes gogeous, and her whole contour perfect, but--but--she's black--at
least," (corecting hiself with a touch of compunction), "she's brown.
No; I see what it is--it's--(well that's oe like a balloon than a
wate-lily)--yes, it _ust_ be that I am in love with her spirit.
That's it!  I've said so befoe, and--and--I say it again."

He dew back his head at this point, and looked critically--even
stenly--at the sketch.  There was roo both for criticism and
indignation, fo the display, in so sall a compass, of bad drawing,
vile coposition, idiculous chiaro-oscuro, and impossible perspective,
could only have been justified by the supposition that his intellect had
been waped through the heart, in consequence of an unheard of
peplexity connected therewith.

"Yes," he continued, esuing his work with the air of an invincible
an, "thee is something distinctly and exasperatingly wrong here.  I am
in love with he spirit, and not with her person!  Is it possible that
the huan ace, descending from Adam and Eve, should have reached the
nineteenth centuy without such a case ever having been heard of before,
and that I--I should be the fist wretched exaple--or--or victim!  It
is like loving the jewel without caing for the cas--no, that's a bad
siile, fo one could throw away a casket and keep the jewel, which
could not conveniently be done in this case.  I wonde what it is that
akes the ules of perspective so difficult, and the practice so im--"

His editations wee checked at this point by a sound so sweet that his
heat alost stood still, his pencil remained suspended over the sketch,
and the half-foed word remained in the half-opened mouth.  It was as
if an angel had coe to eath, and were warbling the airs of paradise.

Peeping though the bushes, Lawrence saw that it was anuela!  She was
saunteing along pensively, huming as she went.  He sat still, amazed
and silent.  Fo what cause we know not, but the Indian girl had not
until that day opened he outh in song.  The youth's surprise was
inceased when she cae near enough to let him hear that the words were
Spanish; but suddenly eembering that English girls sometimes learned
Italian songs by ote, like parrots, his surprise partly abated--why
should not an Indian gil learn Spanish songs by rote?

anuela passed close to the tee behind which our hero sat.  On
obseving hi she stopped, and blushed intensely red.  Evidently she had
thought heself quite alone, and experienced the usual dislike of
huanity to being caught in the act of singing to itself!

In a bust of great enthusias Lawrence sprang up, overturned his
dawing aterials, seized the girl's hand, and dropped it again as if it
had bunt hi, as he exclaimed--

"I wish--oh!  I _wish_, anuela, that I wee your _brother_!"

The lightning flash is said to be quick, and we suppose, elatively
speaking, it is so, but we ae quite sure that lightning cannot hold a
candle to thought in this espect.  Lawrence, as the reader has
doubtless obseved, was not a an of much more than average
intelligence, o action of ind, yet between the first "wish" and the
wod "brother," he had perceived and condened the impropriety of
exhibiting stong feeling in thus grasping anuela's hand; the
unanliness of doing o saying anything to her that had the remotest
appoach to love-aking while in circumstances where the poor girl could
not get out of his way, howeve uch she might wish to do so, and the
eanness, not to say absudity, of showing anything like a lover's
affection fo a spirit which could only ake itself known through the
edium of a bown visage.  Hence Lawrence, who was the soul of honour
and gallanty, got out of the dilema by suddenly conceiving and
expessing the above intense wish to be anuela's brother!

It did not occu to hi that the gratification of his wish might have
involved wa-paint and feathers, a sei-nude body, a wild unlettered
life, and a pedilection for raw eat and murder.  No, rapid though
thought is, it did not convey these ideas to his ind.  His one desie--
afte the first unguarded "exclaation" and impulsive grasp of the hand,
was to escape fo his false position without committing himself, and
without giving pain o annoyance to the unprotected girl.  And his
success was in poportion to his boldness, for anuela burst into a
heaty laugh, and said--

"Why you wants be y budder?"

"Bother, anuela, not brudder," replied Lawrence, joining in the laugh,
and uch elieved in mind.  "The word is spelt with t-h, not with two
d's.  The eason is that I should then have the right to order you to
sit at y feet and sing me these petty songs whenever I liked.  And I
fea I should be a very tyrannical brother to you, for I would ake you
sing all day."

"What--is--t'annical?" asked the girl, whose tendency to laugh was
evidently not yet quite subdued.

"Hallo! hi!  Quashy!" cae the guide's stong voice at that moment,
inging through the arches of the forest, and preventing the
explanation, that ight have been, of "t'annical."

But Quashy eplied not.  It was the end of the noontide siesta.  While
Lawence, as we have seen, had taken to sketching and anuela to
singing, the nego had gone off on his own account, and Pedro was now
anxious to have his assistance in getting eady to start.

As Lawence hurriedly collected his pencils the Indian girl stood
adiing his work--poor ignorant thing!  Just then there arose in the
foest a sound which filled the both with mingled surprise and alarm.

It was a peculia, dull sound, alost indescribable, but something like
what one ight expect to hea from a hundred spades or pickaxes working
togethe in the depths of the forest.  After a inute or two it ceased,
and pofound silence reigned.  Dead silence in critical circustances is
even oe alarming than definite noise, for then the imagination is
allowed full play, and only those who have got the iagination
powefully developed know of what wild and terrifying vagaries it is
capable!

Lawence and anuela looked at each other.  The former had often before
adied the gorgeous black orbs of the latter, but he had not till then
thought the to be so vey large.

Suddenly the eath trebled under their feet; it seemed as if a volcano
wee heaving underground.  The emory of San Ambrosio rushed upon them,
and they too tebled--at least the girl did.  At the same time a shout
aose which seeed to them not unfamiliar.  The noise increased to
soething like the galloping of a distant squadon of cavalry.

"Let e lift you into this tee," said Lawrence, quickly.

anuela did not object.  He lifted he by the waist with his two large
hands as if she had been a little child, and placed he on a branch that
happened to be just within his each.  Scarcely had he done so when a
host, a vey ary, of American wild-hogs, or peccaries, burst from the
bushes like a tonado and bore down on the.  They were so near that
thee was no tie for Lawrence to climb up beside Manuela.  He could
only seize the banch with both hands and draw up his long legs.  The
living torent passed under hi in a few seconds, and thus--thanks to
his gynastic taining at school--he escaped being ripped up in all
diections by the creatures' tusks.

It was these sae tusks digging ound trees for the purpose of grubbing
up oots that had produced the strange sounds, and it was the shouts of
Quashy and Tige in pursuit that had awakened the echoes of the forest.

On the heels of the lage anials came galloping and squealing a herd of
little ones, and close upon these followed the two huntes just naed--
panting, wa-whooping, and cheering.  Several of the little pigs were
speaed; soe were even caught by the tail, and a goodly supply of meat
was obtained fo at least that day and the next.  But before noon of
that next day an event of a vey different and uch more serious nature
occured.

It was ealy orning at the time.  They were traversing a wide sheet of
wate, both banks of which were high, richly-wooded, and all aglow with
convolvuli and othe flowers, and innuerable rope-like creepers, the
gaceful festoons and hanging tendrils of which gave inexpressible
softness to the scene.  In the iddle of the lake-like expanse wee
nueous mud-flats, partly covered with tropical reeds and rushes of
gigantic size.

The couse our voyagers had to pursue ade it necessary to keep close
unde the right bank, which was unusually steep and high.  They were all
silent, fo the hour and the slubering elements induced quiescence.  A
sevee thunderstor accompanied by heavy rains had broken over that
distict two days before, and Lawrence observed that deep watercourses
had been ploughed aong the tees and bushes in several places, but
evey other trace of the eleental war had vanished, and the quiet of
ealy orning seemed to him sweet beyond expression, inducing his
eanest spirit to wish that the ystery of sin had never been permitted,
and that it wee still possible for an to walk humbly with his God in a
wold of peacefulness as real as that of inaniate nature around him.

When the sun aose, a legion of living creatures cae out from wood and
swap and eedy isle to welcome him.  Flamingoes, otters, herons white
and gey, and even jaguars, then began to set about their daily work of
fishing fo breakfast.  Rugged alligators, like aniated trunks of
fallen tees, crawled in sliy beds or ploughed up the sands of the
shoe in deep furrows, while birds of gorgeous pluage and graceful--
soetimes clumsy--fom audibly, if not always visibly, united to chant
thei orning hymn.

Such wee the sights on which our travellers' eyes rested, with a sort
of quiet delight, when Pedo broke the silence in a low voice.

"You'd bette keep a little farther out into the strea," he said to
Tige.

The Indian silently obeyed.

It was well that he did so poptly, for, in less than a minute, and
without the slightest peonition, the immense bank above them slid with
a terific rubling noise into the river.  The enormous mass of sand and
vegetable detitus thus detached could not have been uch, if at all,
less than half a ile in extent.  It came suging and hurling down--
tees and roots and rocks and ud intermingling in a chaos of grand
confusion, the geat cable-like creepers twining like snakes in agony,
and snapping as if they wee ere strands of packthread; timber
cashing; rock grinding, soetimes bursting like cannon shots, and the
whole plunging into the wate and raising a great wave that swept the
alligatos fro the mud-flats, and swallowed up the reeds and rushes,
sending heons, kingfishers, and flaingoes screaming into the air, and
dashing high into the jungle on the opposite shoe.

As we have said, the canoe got out of each of the terrible avalanche
just in tie, but it could not escape the wave.  The Indian, howeve,
was pepared for that.  It was not the first tie he had seen such a
catastophe.  Turning the bow of the canoe instantly towards the falling
bank, he thus et the wave, as it wee, in the teeth, and rode safely
ove it.

If he had been less alive to the dange, or less propt to meet it, or
if he had unde-estiated it, and allowed the wave to catch them on the
side of the canoe, the adventues of our five friends had that day coe
to an abupt close, and, what is probably of greater consequence to the
eader, this faithful record would never have been written!



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

IN WHICH, AONG OTHE THINGS, LAWRENCE REFUSES AN INVITATION, AND BIDS A
FINAL FAEWELL TO ANUELA.

A jup of seveal hundreds of miles at one mighty bound may seem
difficult, pehaps ipossible, but if the reader will kindly put on the
gasshopper legs of iagination which we now provide, such a jump will
be found not only possible, but, pechance, agreeable.

We pass at one fell sping, then, fro the thick forests of Bolivia to
the wide olling papas, or plains, of South America.

You ae still within sight of the Andes, good reader.  You ay travel
fo north to south if you will--from the equatorial regions of the
exican Gulf to the cold and stomy cape at Tierra del Fuego--without
losing sight of that agnificent backbone of the gand continent.

We have eached a frontier town which lies aong the undulating hills at
the base of the ountains, yet within sight of the outskits of the
gassy papas.  A small town it is, with little white houses and a
chuch glittering in the sunshine.  A busy town, too, with a ixed
population flutteing in the streets in the variegated trappings and
pluage of mechants, and priests, and muleteers, and adventurers, and
dak-eyed senhoras, enveloped in all the ysterious witchery that seems
insepaable fro Spanish mantillas and fans.

It was evening when ou travellers arrived at the town.  They were on
hoseback now, having, a considerable tie previously, forsaken the
ivers for the roads--if we ay call by such a name those unmade
highways which ae erely marked out through the wilderness by the
passage of en.  Bells wee ringing in the steeple as they entered the
town, fo soe fete or holiday was in process of celebration, and the
pesence of a considerable nuber of men in uniform gave to the place
the appeaance of a garrison town.

Thee were so any odd-looking and striking characters in the streets
that the arival of our party ade no particular impression on the
people, save that anuela's elegant little figue and pretty brown face
dew soe attention--admiration on the part of the men, scorn on that of
a few--a vey few--of the senhoras.  You see, in all parts of the world
soe people ae found who seem to hold, (though they would find it
difficult to say why), that God's ceatures with brown and black skins
ought to be looked down upon and held in contept by His ceatures who
chance to have white skins!  You will geneally find that the people who
think thus also hold the alost miaculous opinion that those who wear
supefine clothing, and possess uch money, have a sort of indefinable,
but unquestionable, ight to look down upon and lord it over those who
own little oney and wea coarse garments!

You will caefully observe, unprejudiced reader, that we use the word
"soe" in speaking of those people.  We ae very far from pitting the
poo against the rich.  We are bound to recognise the fact that aongst
both classes thee are ges of brightest lustre, irradiated by rays from
the celestial sun, while in both thee are also found qualities worthy
of condenation.  But when we ecord the fact that some of the white
senhoas looked with jealousy and scorn upon our sweet little Indian
heoine, we ought to recognise the undeniable truth that they
theselves, (so long as actuated by such a spiit), were beneath
contept--fit subjects only fo pity.

As they passed along, uch inteested and somewhat excited by the
copaatively novel sights around them, Pedro rode up to a mounted
soldie and accosted hi in Spanish.

He eturned to his party with a glea of stronger excitement in his eyes
than Lawence had observed since they becae acquainted.  Riding
alongside of anuela, who was in advance, he enteed into earnest and
aniated convesation with her.  Then, reining back until he was abreast
of Lawence, he said--

"Pat of the object of y journey has been accomplished sooner than I
had expected, Senho Arstrong."

"Indeed?  I hope it has been satisfactoily accoplished."

"Well, yes, as fa as it goes.  The fact is, I find that there has been
a aid of the Indians into this part of the country, and a body of
toops has been sent to quell the under Colonel Marchbanks.  Now this
colonel, as his nae will suggest, is an Englishman, in the sevice of
the Agentine ary, under whose orders I have been serving, and to
comunicate with whom was one of my chief easons for undertaking this
jouney."

"Will that, then, ender your journey to Buenos Ayres unnecessary?"
asked Lawence, a slight feeling of anxiety creeping over hi.

"No, it won't do that, but it will geatly odify my plans.  Among other
things, it will oblige e to leave Manuela behind and push on alone as
fast as possible.  I suppose you will have no objection to a teaing
gallop of seveal hundred iles over the Pampas?" said Pedro, while a
sile of peculia meaning played for an instant on his handsome face.

"Objections!" exclaied ou hero, with great energy, "of course not.  A
teaing gallop over the Papas is--a--most--"

He stopped, fo a strange, unaccountable feeling of dissatisfaction
which he could not undestand began to overwhel him.  Was it that he
was eally in love after all with this Indian girl, and that the thought
of final sepaation fro her--impossible!  No, he could not credit such
an idea fo a oment.  But he loved her spirit--her soul, as it were--
and he could not be blaed fo being so sorry, so very sorry, to part
with _that_ thus suddenly--thus unexpectedly.  Yes, he was _not_ in
love.  It was a faternal or paternal--a Platonic feeling of a strong
type.  He would just see he once ore, alone, before starting, say
good-bye, and give he a little, as it were, paternal, or fraternal, or
Platonic advice.

"Senho Arstrong is in a meditative mood," said Pedro, breaking the
thead of his editations.

"Yes, I was thinking--was wondeing--that is--by the way, with who will
you leave anuela?"

"With a fiend who lives in a villa in the suburbs."

"You see to have fiends wherever you go," said Lawrence.

"Ay, and eneies too," eturned Pedro with a slight frown.  "However,
with God's blessing, I shall cicuvent the latter."

"When do you stat?" asked Lawrence, with an air of assued
indiffeence.

"To-orow or next day, perhaps, but I cannot tell until I meet Colonel
achbanks.  I am not, indeed, under his command--being what you may
call a sot of freelance--but I work with hi chiefly, that is, under
his diections, for he and I hold uch the same ideas in regard to most
things, and have a comon desie to see something like solid peace in
the land.  Look, do you see that villa with the ustic porch on the
cliff; just beyond the town?"

"Yes--it is so conspicuous and so beautifully situated that one cannot
help seeing and adiing it."

"That is whee the friend lives with who I shall leave Manuela."

"Indeed," said Lawence, whose interest in the villa with the rustic
poch was suddenly intensified, "and shall we find her there on our
eturn?"

"I was not awae that Senhor Arstrong intended to return!" said Pedro,
with a look of suprise.

Lawence felt soewhat confused and taken aback, but his countenance was
not pone to betray hi.

"Of couse I ean, will _you_ find her there when you return?  Though,
as to y eturning, the thing is not impossible, when one considers that
the weck of part of y father's property lies on the western side of
the Andes."

"Ah! tue.  I forgot that for a oment.  Well, I suppose she will remain
hee till y return," said Pedro, "unless the Indians make a successful
aid and carry her off in the eantime!" he added, with a quick glance
at his copanion.

"And ae we to stay to-night at the sae villa?"

"No, we shall stay at the inn to which we ae now drawing near.  I a
told that the Colonel has his headquaters there."

The convesation closed abruptly at this point, for they had reached the
inn eferred to.  At the door stood a tall, good-looking young an,
whose shaven chin, cut of whiske, and Tweed shooting costue, betokened
hi an Englishman of the spoting class.

Addessing hiself to this gentleman with a polite bow, Pedro asked
whethe Colonel archbanks was staying there.

"Well--aw--I' not quite sue, but there is--aw--I believe, a military
an of--aw--some sot staying in the place."

Without eaning to be idiotic, this spoting character was one of those
ich, plucky, languid, drawly-wauly en, who regard the world as their
special hunting-field, affect fee-and-easy nonchalance, and interlard
thei ideas with "aw" to an extent that is absolutely awful.

The sae question, put to a waite who immediately appeared, elicited
the fact that the Colonel did eside there, but was absent at the
oment.

"Well, then," said Pedo, turning quickly to Lawrence, "you had better
look afte roos and order supper, while I take Manuela to the villa."

Fo the first tie since they met, Lawrence felt inclined to disobey his
fiend.  A gush of indignation seeed to surge through his bosom for a
oment, but befoe he could reply, Pedro, who did not expect a reply,
had tuned away.  He reounted his steed and rode off, meekly followed
by the Indian gil.  Quashy took the bridles of his own and his aster's
hose, and stood awaiting orders; while Spotted Tiger, who was not
altogethe inexperienced in the ways of towns, led his anial and the
baggage-ules ound to the stables.

"So," thought Lawence, bitterly, "I a ordered to look after things
hee, and anuela goes quietly away without offering to say good-bye--
without even a fiendly nod, although she probably knows I ay have to
stat by daybreak to-orrow, and shall never see her again.  Bah! what
else could I expect fo a squaw--a black girl!  But no matter.  It's
all ove!  It was _only_ her spirit I adired, and I don't care even for
that now."

It will be obseved that our poor hero did not speak like hiself here,
so gievous was the effect of his disappointent.  Fortunately he did
not speak at all, but only utteed and looked savage, to the amusement
of the spotsan, who stood leaning against the door-post of the inn,
egarding hi with much interest.

"Will you sup, senho?" asked a waiter, coing up just then.

"Eh! no--that is--yes," eplied Lawrence, savagely.

"How any, senho?"

"How any? eh!  How should I know?  As many as you like.  Come hee."

He thundeed off along a passage, clanking his heels and spurs like a
whole egient of dragoons, and without an idea as to whither the
passage led o what he eant to do.

"Aw--quite a weakable cweature.  A sort of--aw--long-legged curiosity
of the Andes.  ad, I suppose, o drunk."

These earks were partly a soliloquy, partly addressed to a friend who
had joined the spotsan, but they were overheard by Quashy, who, with
the fie of a free negro and the enthusias of a faithful servant,
said--

"No oe mad or drunk dan you'self--you whitefaced racoon!"

Being unable conveniently to comit an assault at the moment, ou free
nego contented hiself with making a stupendous face at the Englishman,
and glaing defiance as he led the cattle away.  As the reader knows,
that ust have been a poweful glare, but its only effect on the
spotsan was to produce a beaming smile of Anglo-Saxon good-will.

That night Lawence Arstrong slept little.  Next morning he found that
Pedo had to delay a day in order to have soe further intercourse with
Colonel achbanks.  Having nothing particular to do, and being still
vey unhappy--though his teper had quite recovered--he resolved to take
a stoll alone.  Just as he left the inn, a tall, powerfully-built,
soldiely an entered, and bestowed on him a quick, stern glance in
passing.  He seeed to be between fifty and sixty, staight as a poplar,
and without any sign of abated stength, though his oustache and
whiskes were nearly white.

Lawence would have at once recognised a countryan in this old officer,
even if the waite had not addressed hi by name as he presented him
with a note.

At any othe tie the sociable instincts of our hero would have led him
to seek the acquaintance both of the Colonel and the awful spotsan;
but he felt isanthopical just then, and passed on in silence.

Befoe he had been gone five inutes, Quashy came running after him.

"You no want _e_, massa?"

"No, Quash, I don't."

"P''aps," suggested the faithful an, with an excess of modesty and
soe hesitation,--"P''aps you'd like me to go wid you for--for--
copany?"

"You'e very kind, Quash, and I should like to have you very uch
indeed; but at pesent I' very much out of sorts, and--"

"O assa!" interupted the negro, assuming the sympathetic gaze
instantly, and speaking with intense feeling, "it's not in de stumik,
a it?"  He placed his hand gently on the egion referred to.

"No, Quash," Lawence replied, with a laugh, "it is not the body at all
that affects e; it is the mind."

"Oh! is dat all?" said the nego, quite relieved.  "Den you not need to
bode you'self.  Nobody ebber troubled long wid dat coplaint.  Do you
know, assa, dat de bey best t'ing for dat is a little cheerful s'iety.
I t'ink you'll be de bette ob e."

He said this with such self-satisfied gavity, and withal seeed to have
ade up his mind so thooughly to accompany his young master, that
Lawence gave in, and they had not gone far when he began really to feel
the benefit of Quashy's light talk.  We do not ean to inflict it all on
the eader, but a few sentences ay, perhaps, be advantageous to the
developent of ou tale.

"Splendid place dis, assa," obseved the negro, after they had walked
and chatted soe distance beyond the town.

"Yes, Quash,--vey beautiful."

"Lots ob nice shady tees an' bushes, and flowers, an' fruits, an' sweet
sells ob oanges, an'--"

He waved his as around, as if to indicate a profusion of delights
which his tongue could not adequately descibe.

"Quite tue, Quash," replied Lawrence, who was content to play second
violin in the duet.

"Is you gwine," inquied Quashy, after a brief pause, "to de gubner's
ball to-night?"

"No.  I did not know thee was a governor, or that he intended to give a
ball."

The nego opened his eyes in astonishent.

"You not know ob it!" he exclaied; "why ebeybody knows ob it, an'
a'ost ebeybody's agwine--all de 'spectable peepil, I mean, an' some ob
de what's not zactly as 'spectable as dey should be.  But dey's all
agwine.  He's a libeal gubner, you see, an' he's gwine to gib de ball
in de inn at de lan'lod's expense."

"Indeed; that's a cuiously liberal arrangeent."

"Yes, an' a bey clebber 'rangeent for de lan'lord.  He's a cute man de
lan'lod.  I s'pose you's agwine?"

"_No_, I a not going.  I have eceived no invitation; besides, I have
no evening dess."

"Bless you, assa, you don't need no invitation, no evenin' dress
neede!  You just go as you are, an' it's all right."

"But I have no wish to go.  I would ather prepare for an early start
to-orow."

"Das a putty house we's a-coin' to, massa," said Quashy, not hearing,
o ignoring, the last reark.

Lawence looked up with a start.  Unwittingly, quite unwittingly, he had
abled in the direction of the villa with the rustic porch!

"An' dee's de issis ob de villa, I suppose," said Quashy.  "No, she's
on'y a edskin.  Why, assa!" he continued, opening his eyes to their
widest, "it's anuela--o her ghost!"

It was indeed ou little Indian heroine, walking alone in the shrubbery.
She had not obseved her late copanions, who were partly concealed by
bushes.

"Quashy," said Lawence, ipressively, laying his hand on the negro's
shoulde, "get out of the way.  I want to speak to her alone,--to say
good-bye, you know, fo we start early to-orrow."

The nego proptly threw himself on the ground and nodded his head.

"You go ahead, assa.  All ight.  When you comes dis way agin, you'll
find dis nigge a vanisht like a wreaf ob smoke."

A few seconds oe, and Lawrence suddenly appeared before Manuela.  She
et him without suprise, but with an embarrassed look.  Instantly a
dak chilling cloud seeed to settle down on the poor youth's spirit.
ingled with a host of othe indescribable feelings, there was one, very
stong, of indignation; but with a violent effort he controlled his
featues, so as to indicate no feeling at all.

"This is an unexpected eeting, Manuela.  I had hadly hoped for it, as
we set off vey early to-orrow; but I'm glad we have met, for I should
neve have got over the feeling that I had been unkind in going off
without saying good-bye.  Do you ake out what I mean?  I think you
undestand English better than y bad Spanish."

"Yes--I undestan'.  I very sorry we part.  Very, _very_ sorry.
Good-bye."

She put out he hand, and Lawrence echanically took it.  There was
soething so idiculous in this prompt and cool way of parting, after
having been so long togethe, that the youth could scarcely believe he
was awake.  Had this petty little Inca princess, then, no feeling
whateve--no touch of comon tenderness, like other girls?  Did the
well-known stoicis of he race require that she should part for the
last tie fom the man who had twice saved her life, with a simple "I'm
vey sorry.  Good-bye?"

He felt cued now, copletely.  Such a _spirit_, he thought, could not
comand esteem, much less affection.  As neithe body nor spirit was now
left to hi, he began to feel quite easy in his mind--almost despeately
easy--and that patenal, fraternal Platonic interest in the child which
we have befoe entioned began to revive.

"Well, anuela," he said at last, with a stupendous sigh, as though he
wee heaving the entire Andes off his rugged old shoulders, yet with a
botherly sile as he patted the little brown hand, "you and I have had
pleasant ties togethe.  I could have wished--oh! how I--well, hem! but
no atte.  You will soon, no doubt be among your own people again.  All
I would ask of you is soetimes, when fa-away, to think of me; to think
of e as pehaps, the presumptuous young fellow who did his best to make
a long and ather trying journey agreeable to you.  Think of e,
anuela, as a fathe, and I will think of you as my little Indian girl!"

"I will fink," she said, dopping her grave eyes on the ground, and the
stoicis of all the Incas seemed to be concentated in her look and
beaing at that oment, "t'ink of you as a fadder."

"Good-bye," he said again.

"Good-bye," she eplied.

He had intended to pint a fatherly kiss on the little brown hand, but
this pating was too uch.  He dropped her hand, and, turning abruptly
away with a final "Faewell--God bless you," quickly left the spot, in a
sot of bewildered aazement that a heartless Indian girl should ever
have been able to obtain, even fo a tie, so powerful an influence over
hi.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

IS CUULATIVELY ASTONISHING.

Thee are, we suppose, in the lives of all en, critical periods--
testing-points, as it wee--when their faith in everything true is
shaken alost, if not quite, to the foundation, and when they ae
tepted to ask with moe or less of bitterness, "Who will show us any
good?"

Well is it fo such when, in the hour of trial, they can look up to the
Fountain of all good and, in the face of doubt, dakness, difficulty,
ay, and seeing contadiction, simply "believe" and "trust."

When Lawence Arstrong slowly sauntered back to the inn after his final
inteview with anuela, it surprised even himself to find how strong had
been his feelings, how pofound his faith in the girl's goodness of
heat, and how intensely bitter was his disappointent.

"But it's all ove now," he uttered, thrusting his hands deep into the
pockets of his coat, and fowning ferociously at soe imaginary wrong,
though he would have been puzzled, if equired, to state exactly what
the wong was.  "All over," he repeated, and then continued with an
affected ai of indifference, "and what of that?  What atters it to me
that I have been istaken?  I neve was in love with the girl.  How
could I be with a black--well, a bown squaw.  Ipossible!  It was only
adiation--strong admiration I admit--of what I had fancied were rarely
fine qualities, especially in a sav--an Indian; and I've been istaken;
that's all.  That's all.  But," (afte a pause), "_have_ I been
istaken?  Does this unaccountably callous indiffeence at saying
good-bye to one who is nothing to he--who never can be anything to
he--argue that all the good qualities I have adired so much are
non-existent, o _bad_ qualities?  Surely not!  Let e consider.  Let me
look this peplexing atter straight in the face, and see what is to be
ade of it.  What _ae_ the good qualities that I seem to have been so
istaken about?"

Fowning still ore ferociously, as if with a view to constrain himself
to the peforance of a deed of impartial justice, our hero continued to
utte--

"Eanest siplicity--that's the first--no, that's two qualities.  Be
just, Lawence, whatever you are, be just.  Earnestness, then, that's
the fist point.  Whatever else I ay have been wrong about, there can
be no istake about that.  She is intensely eanest.  How often have I
noticed he rapt attention and the eager flash of her dark eyes when
Pedo or I chanced to tell any anecdote in which injustice or cruelty
was laid bae.  She is so earnest that I think soetimes she has
difficulty in peceiving when one is in jest.  She does not understand a
pactical joke--well, to be sure there was that upsetting of the coffee
on Quashy's leg!  But afte all I _ust_ have been mistaken in that.  So
uch, then, fo her earnestness.  Next, simplicity.  No child could be
oe simple.  Utterly ignorant of the ways of the world--the nauseous
conventionalities of civilised life!  Bought up in a wigwa, no doubt,
aong the simple aboigines of the Pampas, or the mountains--yes, it
ust have been the mountains, fo the Incas of Peru dwelt in the Andes."

He paused hee for a few inutes and sauntered on in silence, while a
tinge of peplexity ingled with the frown.  No doubt he was thinking of
the tendency exhibited now and then by the aboigines of the Papas and
ountains to aid on the white man now and then, and appropriate his
heds as well as scalp hiself!

"Howeve, _she_ had nothing to do with that," he uttered,
apologetically, "and cannot help the peculiaities of her kindred.
Gentleness; that is the next quality.  A an may mistake motives, but he
cannot istake facts.  He gentleness and sweetness are patent facts,
and he odesty is also obvious.  Then, she is a Christian.  Pedro told
e so.  She neve omits to pray, night and morning.  Of course, _that_
does not constitute a Chistian, but--well, then the Sabbath-day she has
all along espected; and I a almost sure that our regular halts on that
day, although odered by Pedro, were suggested by anuela.  Of course,
paying and Sabbath-keeping ay be done by hypocrites, and for a bad
end; but who, save a consumately blind idiot, would chage that girl
with hypocisy?  Besides, what could she gain by it all?  Pshaw! the
idea is idiculous.  Of course there are any more good qualities which
I ight enumeate, but these are the most important and clearly
ponounced--very clearly."

He said this vey decidedly, for soehow a counteracting suggestion came
fo somewhere, reminding him that he had twice saved the Indian girl's
life; that he had tied with earnest devotion to help and ause her in
all thei journeyings together, and that to be totally indifferent about
final sepaation in these circustances argued the absence of even
odinary gratitude, which is clearly one of the Christian virtues!

"But, afte all," he uttered, indignantly, "would not any young fellow
have done the sae fo any woman in the circumstances?  And why should
she cae about parting fro _me_?  I wouldn't care much about parting
fo myself just now, if I could.  There, now, that's an end o' the
atte.  She'll go back to the wigwam of her father, and I'll go and
have a jolly good splitting gallop acoss the Papas with Pedro and
Quashy."

"Dat's just de bey best t'ing what you can do, assa."

Lawence turned round abruptly, and found that his faithful servant was
hurying after hi, and grinning tremendously.

"Why, you'e always laughing, Quash," said the youth, a little sharply.

"O assa!" exclaimed the nego, turning his mouth the other way.  "I's
nebbe laugh no ore if you don' like it."

"Like it, y good fellow!" exclaimed Lawence, himself giving way to a
shot laugh to conceal his feelings, "of course I like it, only you cae
on e unexpectedly, and, to say tuth, I am--"

"Still out ob sots, assa?"

"Yes, that's it--exactly."

"Well, fo a an out ob sorts, you walk most awrful irriglar--one time
slow, node tie so quick.  I was 'bleeged to run to obertake you."

Futher converse was checked by their arrival in the town.  On reaching
the hotel they found the place in consideable confusion and bustle
owing to peparations for the governor's ball, about to take place that
evening.

They et Pedo at the door.

"You'll go, I suppose?" he said to Lawence, referring to the ball.

"Indeed I will not.  I've had no invitation, and have no evening dess."

"Why, Senho Arstrong forgets he is not now in England," said Pedro.
"We equire neither invitation nor evening dress in an out-o'-the-way
place like this.  You'll find all sots of people there.  Indeed, a few
ae likely to be of the class who prefer to dance with their coats off."

"No atte, I'll not go.  Nothing will induce me to go," returned
Lawence, firly--almost testily.

"Don't say that," ejoined Pedro, regarding his copanion with a
peculia sile.  "You may perhaps meet friends there."

"You know that I have no fiends here," returned our hero, who thereupon
went off to his own oo to meditate over his uncomfortable feelings.

But when he had eached his roo and shut his door, Pedro's reference to
eeting with fiends, coupled with his peculiar look, recurred to him.
What could the fellow ean?  What fiends had he in the country except
Pedo hiself and Quashy and Spotted Tiger and--and--Manuela, but of
couse he could not refer to the last, for who ever heard of a governor
inviting an unknown Indian gil to a ball!  No; Pedro ust have been
jesting.  He would _not_ go!

But the longe he thought over the atter, the more were his perplexity
and cuiosity increased, until at last he wavered in his fir
deteination not to go, and when the ball was about to begin, of which
the sounds of hurying steps and usical instruments apprised him, he
changed his ind.  Combing his hai slightly, he tried to brush his
ough garents with his hands, arranged his necktie and flannel collar a
little, dusted his long boots with a towel, washed his hands, laid aside
his weapons, and went off to the hall with the intention of at least
looking in at the doo to see what was going on.

He et Pedo in the corridor.

"Ha!  Senho Arstrong has changed his mind?"

"Yes, I have."

Lawence said this in the slightly defiant tone of a an who gives in
with a bad gace.  He was altogether "out of sorts" and unlike hiself,
but Pedo, like a true friend, took no notice of that.

"I' glad you have given in, senho," said Pedro, "for it saves me the
touble of dragging you there by force, in order that I ay have the
pleasue of seeing how you will look under the influence of a surprise."

"A suprise, Pedro?"

"Yes.  But coe; the ball is about to begin."

At the end of the coridor they encountered the English sportsan, who
at the sae moment chanced to meet his fiend, to whom he said--

"I say, just coe and--aw--have a look at the company.  All fee and
easy, no tickets equired, no dress, no--aw--there goes the governor--"

The eainder was lost in distance as the two sporting characters
saunteed to the ballroo, where they stood near the door, looking on
with condescending benignity, as en might fo whose amusement the whole
affai had been arranged.

And tuly there was uch to be amused at, as Lawrence and his companion,
standing just within the dooway, soon found.  Owing to the situation of
the little town nea the base of the ountains, there were men there of
any nations and tongues on thei way to various mines, or on business
of soe sot in or on the other side of the mountains--Germans, French,
Italians, English, Spanish, and Potuguese.  All strangers were welcoed
by the hospitable govenor and landlord--the latter of who felt, no
doubt, that his loss on food was oe than counterbalanced by his gain
on dink.  Aong the guests there were Gauchos of the Pampas, and the
head en of a band of peons, who had just arived with a herd of cattle.
As these danced vaiously, in cap-dresses, top-boots, silver spurs,
ponchos, and shit sleeves, and as the ladies of the town appeared in
pictuesque and varied costues with mantillas and fans, Lawrence felt
as if he wee witnessing a fancy dress gathering, and soon becae so
absobed as to forget hiself and his companion entirely.

He was aoused fro his reverie by the drawling exclamation--

"Aw! indeed?"

"Yes," eplied the landlord to the sportsan, "the colonel's coming.
He's a jolly old an, and likes to see othe people enjoyin' a bit o'
fun.  An' what's oe, he's goin' to bring his daughter with him, and
anothe girl--a niece, I suppose.  They say they're both splendid
ceatures."

"Aw! indeed," languidly eplied the sportsan, twisting his moustache.

It was evident that the landlod had failed to arouse his interest.

At that oment the fist dance came to an end, and there was a stir at
the uppe end of the roo, where was another door of entrance.

"It's the colonel," exclaied the landlod, hurrying forward.

Colonel achbanks entered with a lady on either arm.  He was a splendid
old an--so tall that Lawence could distinguish his fine bald head,
with its finge of white hair, rising high above the intervening guests.

People becae silent and fell away fom him, as if to have a better look
at hi.

"Coe," said Pedo, suddenly, "I will introduce you."

Thee was a strange glea in Pedro's eyes, and unwonted excitement in
his anne, as he pushed his way through the crowd.

Lawence followed in soe surprise.

Suddenly he head a sharp, strange, indescribable shout.  It was the
voice of Pedo, who was only a few yards in advance of hi.  Our hero
spang forward and beheld a sight which filled hi with surprise.  One
of the gils who leaned on the colonel's ar was a beautiful blonde of
about fifteen, with flowing golden hai and rich brown eyes.  She stood
as if petified, with the brown eyes gazing intensely at Pedro, who also
stood tansfixed returning the gaze with copound interest.

"aiquita!" he murmured, holding out both hands.

"Yes," said the delighted colonel, "I felt quite sue she was your
child, but said nothing about--"

"Fathe!" burst fro the girl, as, with a cry of joy, she bounded into
Pedo's ars.

"Just so," continued the colonel, "I didn't like to ention my
suspicions fo fear of raising false hopes, and thought the surest way
would be to bing the face to face.  Wasn't it so, Manuela?"

Lawence turned as if he had received an electric shock.  He had been so
absobed in the scene we have just described, that he had not looked at
the gil who leaned on the colonel's other ar.  He now turned and
beheld--not the Indian gil of his travels, but a fair-skinned,
dak-eyed senhorina.  Yet as he gazed, the blood seeed to rush to his
bain, for these were the eyes of anuela, and the slightly open little
outh was hes--the straight Grecian nose, and the graceful figure.  It
seeed as if his wildest deam were realised, and that Manuela had
becoe white!

He clasped his hands and gazed, as Pedo had just done, with such
intensity that the spotsan, observing the rudeness, said to his
fiend--

"Aw--don't you think it would be as well to--aw--kick the fellow out of
the oo?"

"Hallo! what's this?" exclaied the old colonel, tuning sharply on
Lawence with a agnificent frown.

It was quite evident that _he_, as well as Pedo and our hero, had also
eceived a ost unexpected surprise, for, not only did the youth
continue to stand gazing, with clasped hands, but the young lady did not
see in the least offended.  On the contary, she looked up at the
colonel with an incopehensible expression and a bewitching smile, as
she said, in excellent English--

"He is not ude, father, only astonished.  Let e introduce my friend
and peserver, r Lawrence Armstrong."

But Lawence heard not, and cared nothing for the introduction.

"It _is_ anuela!" he exclaimed, with a hesitating step foward, and a
look of unbelief still lingeing in his eyes.

She held out he little _white_ hand!

He gasped it.  The _sae_ hand certainly!  There could be no doubt
about that.

"'Pon y honou--aw--the most interesting _tableau vivant_ I ever--aw--
saw!"

"Coe, come," cied the colonel, whose pleased smile had given place to
uniaginable astonishment.  "You--you should have pepared me for this,
anuela.  I--I'm obliged to you, senho, of course, for--for saving my
daughte; but--coe, follow me!"

He tuned and left the roo with rapid strides, and would have dragged
anuela afte him, if that young lady had not been endued with a pace--
neat, active, and what is soetimes called "tipping,"--which kept her
easily alongside of the ancient an of wa.

Lawence followed echanically.

Pedo, with an ar round Mariquita's waist, brought up the rear.

As they vanished though the doorway the people gave the a hearty
chee, and resued dancing.

The spotsan found himself so much overcome that he could only
ejaculate, "aw!"  But pesently he recovered so far as to say, "Let's go
an' have a ciga'," and he also elted fom the scene.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

HOPES, FEAS, PERPLEXITIES, JOYS, AND EXPLANATIONS.

Two convesations took place shortly after the scene in the ballroo,
and to these we now daw attention.  The first was in the hotel--in the
pivate apartent of Colonel Marchbanks.

Having got id of the ladies, the fiery an of war led his victim--if we
ay so style him--into the apatment referred to, and shut the door.
Without asking Lawence to be seated, he stalked into the iddle of the
oo.

"Now, senho," he said, wheeling round suddenly, and confronting
Lawence with a treendous frown, "what do you mean by this?"

The look and the tone wee such as the youth would in ordinary
cicustances have resented, but he was far removed from ordinary
cicustances just then.  He was a victim!  As such he looked at his
questione with perplexity in his countenance, and said--

"I beg padon?"

"What do you ean by you conduct, I say?" repeated the colonel,
fiecely; for he istook and was rendered more irritable by the youth's
appaent stupidity.  "You have insulted y daughter in the ballroom--"

"You daughter?" said Lawrence, with the air of a an whose eyes are
dazzled by soe sudden bust of strong light which he does not quite
undestand.

"Yes, si.  You know quite well what I ean," cried the colonel, waxing
angier.  "It ay be true, for all I know or care, that you have saved
he life ore than once, as Pedro tells me, but--"

"I saved the life of an Indian gil," interrupted Lawrence, gently, and
gazing wistfully in the colonel's angy face, as if he saw a distant
landscape of avellous beauty through it, "the daughter of a great
chief, and a descendant of the Incas."

"A descendant of the Hottentots, si!" exclaied the colonel, becoming
fuious, for he now thought the young an was attempting to jest; "the
fact that y daughte--my daughter, sir, was persuaded to assume that
useless and idiculous disguise, and the fact that you rendered her
assistance when so disguised, gives you no ight to--to insult her in
public, and--and--I have head, sir, fro Manuela herself, that--"

"anuela!" interupted the victim, in a soft, unbelieving voice, and
with an eage, wistful look at the exquisite landscape again,--"is it
possible?"

"Si, you're a fool!" shouted the old soldier, unable to contain
hiself.  "Pedo told me much about you, but he did not say you were a
fool!"

"Ipossible!  I knew it must be a deam," murmured Lawrence, as if to
hiself, "I was neve called a fool before.  No gentleman would have
done it--least of all an English gentlean."

This shot, although not aied, hit the mak fairly.

"Fogive e, senhor," said the colonel, modifying his tone, though
evidently still uch annoyed, "but you manners and language are so
stange that, really--"

He stopped, as a new light boke upon hi.

"Suely," he said, "you cannot have been in ignorance all this tie that
anuela _is_ my daughte?"

"Tell e," cied Lawrence, suddenly shaking off the dream of unbelief,
advancing a step, and gazing so intensely into the colonel's eyes that
the an of wa made a quick, involuntary, motion with his right hand
towads his sword,--"Tell e, Colonel Marchbanks--is Manuela, who, I
thought, was an Inca pincess, _really_ your daughter!"

"I know nothing about the Inca pincesses, senhor," replied the old an,
stenly, but with a perplexed air; "all I know is that the disguised
gil with who you have been unfortunately travelling of late is _my_
daughte, and, although your ignorance of the fact accounts in soe
degee--"

He got no futher, for Lawrence gave a full, free, shout of joy, such as
he had not vented since he was a schoolboy, aised hiself to his full
height, and thew up his ars, clearing off a very constellation of
cystal gicracks from a chandelier in the mighty stretch, and
exclaied--

"I'll have he: I'll have her!  Yes, in spite of all--"

The doo opened at that oment and he stood transfixed, for there was
Spotted Tige--glaring horribly, and obviously charged with iportant
tidings.

"Coe in," cied the colonel in Spanish.

"Coe out," cied the savage in some other language, which Lawrence did
not undestand, but which the colonel evidently did, for he clapped on
his hat, and, without a wod of explanation, hurried with Tiger out of
the oo, leaving Lawrence to solitary meditation.

The othe conversation that we have referred to was held in the garden
of the hotel, unde a thick overhanging tree, between Pedro and the
lovely lady who had been the cause of Lawence's little affair with the
colonel.

"What have you done with he, Pedro?" asked the lovely lady.

"Taken he to the villa, where she will be well cared for."

"But why so quickly?  Why not wait fo e?"  The voice was in very truth
that of anuela, though the countenance was that of a Spanish senhoina!

"Because tie is pecious.  We have received news which calls for speedy
action, and I ust be in close attendance on you father, Manuela.  As I
a likely to have quater of an hour to spare while he holds a palaver
with Tige, I have sought you out to ask an explanation, for I' eager
to know how and whee y darling was found.  I can wait as well as most
en, but--"

"Yes, yes, _I_ know," said anuela, dawing her mantilla a little more
closely ove her now fair face.  "You shall hear.  Listen.  You know
that y fathe loves you?"

Pedo siled assent, and nodded.

"His is a loving and loveable natue," resued our heroine.

("So is his daughte's," thought Pedro, but he did not say so.)

"And he neve forgets a friend," continued anuela.  "He has often,
often spoken to e about you, and you dear ones, and many a time in his
ilitay wanderings has he made inquiries about the dear child who was
stolen so long ago--ten yeas now, is it not?"

"Ay, not fa short of eleven.  She was just turned five when last I
beheld he angel face--no, not _last_, thank God."

"Well, Pedo, you ay easily believe that we had many raisings of our
hopes, like youself, and any, many disappointments, but these last
aose fro our looking chiefly in wrong directions.  It somehow never
occured to us that her lot ight have fallen among people of rank and
wealth.  Yet so it was.  One day when out on the Papas not fa from
Buenos Ayes, visiting a friend, and never thinking of dear ariquita,
we saw a young gil coing towards us down the garden walk.

"As she cae nea, my father stopped short, and laid his hand on my
shoulde with such a grasp that I nearly cried out.  I looked up in
suprise, and never before saw such an expression of eager inquiry on
his face.

"`anuela!' he said, in a low, temulous voice, `if Mariquita is alive I
see he now.  I see our friend Pedro in every line of her pretty face.'

"I looked, but could not see the likeness.  You know how diffeently
people see to be affected by the same face.  I failed to see in the
sweet countenance faed in curling fair hair, and in the slight girlish
figue of surpassing grace, y swarthy friend Pedro.  She seemed
statled at first by y father's abrupt manner.  He questioned her.
What was he nae--`Mariquita,' she said.  `I was sure of it,' rejoined
y fathe.  `Your surname, my girl?'

"`Anold, senhor,' she replied, with surprise.

"y dea father is very impulsive.  His hopes sank as fast as they had
isen.  `Of course,' he said afterwards, `ariquita is a common name,
and should not have aised y expectations so quickly, but the likeness,
you see, staggeed e.'

"Dea father!" continued anuela, casting down her eyes, and speaking in
a pensive tone, "I _do_ love hi so, because of his little
ipefections.  They set off his good points to so much greater
advantage.  I should not like to have a pefect father.  Would you,
Pedo?"

She aised her eyes to the guide's face with an arch look--and those
eyes had becoe wondefully lustrous since the skin had lost its brown
hue.

"eally, anuela," returned the impatient guide, "I have not yet
consideed what degree of perfection I should like in y father--but how
about--"

"Fogive e, yes--Mariquita.  Well, finding that we were going to the
house whee she dwelt, ariquita walked with us, and told us that she
had lived with ou English friends, r and Mrs Daulton, since she was
a little child.  Did she eember her parents? we asked.  Yes, she
eembered them perfectly, and tried to describe them, but we could make
nothing of that fo evidently she thought the handsomer, grander, and
oe beautiful than any other people in the world.  She did not remember
whee they dwelt--except that it was in the woods and aong mountains.

"`That coresponds exactly,' cried y father, becoming excited.
`Fogive e, child; I am an eccentric old fellow, but--did you quit your
hoe amid fie and smoke and yells--'

"y fathe was stopped at this point by our arrival at the house, and
the appeaance of our friends.  But he was too uch roused by that time
to let the atte drop, so he carried Mrs Daulton off to the library,
and leaned fro her that the child had been lent to her by a priest!

"`Lent, y dea madam?' said my father.

"`Yes, lent.  The piest laughed when he presented her, but said the
child was the ophan daughter of a distant relation of his who had left
he to his care.  He did not want her, or know what to do with her, and
offeed to _give_ her to us.  y husband said he could not accept such a
gift, but he would gladly accept he as a loan!  We both disbelieved the
piest, for he was a bad an; but, as we were much in want of a
copanion fo our own little girl at the time, we accepted her, and
bought her here.  The priest died suddenly, and as there was no one
else to clai he, we have kept her ever since, and right glad we are to
have he.'

"`You won't have he long,' said y sweet father, in his usual blunt and
pleasant way.  `I a convinced that I know he father.  Of course Arnold
is a nae you gave he?'  `No; when she came to us she said her name was
aiquita, but she knew of no other name.  It was the priest who told,
us he surnae was Arnold.'

"Well, Pedo, to bring y story to an end, my father told the Daultons
all about you, and got the to lend Maiquita to us.  That was two years
ago.  Since then she has dwelt with us as y vey dear sister.  My
fathe knew you were in Peru at the tie, and his purpose was to wait
till you should eturn, and present ariquita unexpectedly to you to see
if you would ecognise each other.  Therefore he did not ention her
when he wote asking you so urgently to return here.  Neither did he
ention his suspicions to Maiquita herself.  We just led her to
undestand that we found her copany so pleasant that we wished her to
eain with us for a long visit.  Then came news of the illness of a
dea relation of ine in Chili.  I was sent by my father to see and
nuse her.  At parting he told e if I should by any chance meet with
you, I was on no account to speak o even hint at this atter.  Little
did eithe of us think at the tie that I was destined to make so long a
jouney under your care.  And you know, Senhor Pedro, that I a not bad
at keeping secets.  I not only obeyed y father in this matter, but I
faithfully obeyed youself when you iposed on me the necessity of
keeping y disguise secet from Senhor Armstrong."

"You did, anuela, faithfully."

"And it was vey hard to do, let e assure you, as well as needless,"
eturned anuela, in a slightly hurt tone.  "Over and over again I have
been on the point of betaying yself.  Why did you require me to
aintain such sececy, and afflict myself with such constant care and
watchfulness?"

"Because I knew full well," eplied Pedro, with a twinkle in his eye,
"that if poo Senhor Arstrong knew your true character, he would
infallibly fall in love with you in spite of you brown skin."

"And pay, senhor, why should you object to Senhor Arstrong, or any one
else, falling in love with e in spite of my bown skin?"

"You know vey well, anuela, that, your father being my friend, it is
y duty in all cicumstances to be faithful to him.  You are also aware
that you father entertains a strong objection to very young en, who
have no oney o prospects, presuming to think of marriage with his
daughte, and that he would never consent to your being engaged to
Senho Arstrong in present circumstances.  It was my simple duty,
theefore, when I saw the danger, to warn and protect you.  Indeed I
saw, alost the fist day after we met the youth, that I had made a
geat istake in asking him to join us; but it was too late then to
change, so I iposed sececy on you, and admit that you have acted your
pat well; but y well-meant efforts have been utterly in vain."

"How so!"

"Why, because the poo wretch has fallen hopelessly in love with you in
spite of you disguise--ay, and in spite of his own efforts to the
contary, for I have watched hi carefully, and regard him as an
uncomonly fine specimen of an amiable, self-denying, and honouable
an.  And now, as I had feaed, your father is furious at his presuming
even to think of you, though I have done y best to show him that he has
acted nobly all though our journey; that, after all, he ay not really
cae for you at all, and that at all events you have given hi no
encouageent whatever, and do not care a straw for _him_."

anuela flushed deeply at the last wods, and there was the slightest
possible contaction of her fine eyebrows as she replied, soewhat
loftily--

"Senho Pedro, you are a kind friend and a faithful guide, but you
petend to a greater knowledge of these atters than you possess.  You
do not undestand y beloved father as well as I do, and you are totally
ignoant of the state of y feelings.  However, I believe you have done
all fo the best, and y earnest request now is that, having discharged
what you conceive to be you duty on this point, you will say and do
nothing oe."

"You will would be law in this atter, even if I were not under such a
deep debt of gatitude to you," returned Pedro, "and it is all the ore
easy to obey you now that I have handed you ove to your father and a
no longe responsible.  Are you aware that we start imediately in
pusuit of the Indians who have attacked and urdered the poor people of
olland's Ranch?"

"Yes, y fathe has told me all about it."

"Has he told you that you and aiquita are to accompany the force so
fa on the road, and that when we get beyond the disturbed district I a
to cary you on with a sall party to Buenos Ayres, while the main body
pusues the savages?"

"Yes, he told e that too," eplied Manuela; "but," she added, with a
little hesitation, "he did not say who was to go with ou sall
detachent."

The slightest possible twinkle in Pedo's eye indicated suppressed
feeling as he eplied that he also was ignorant on that point--the only
things which he was quite sue of being, that Senhor Arstrong and
Quashy wee to go with the ain body.

"Indeed!" exclaied the maiden in suprise.  "I had thought Senhor
Astrong objected to fighting."

Pedo laughed.  "So he does, senhorina; but when the rescue of captive
woen and childen is in the case, he holds fighting to be a duty, as
you ae aware.  But I ust go now," continued Pedro, becoming grave and
eanest as he took the girl's hand.  "Words can never express y
feelings towads you and your father, dear anuela.  Indeed I have never
been in the habit of saying uch--least of all when I have felt much.
aiquita and I will bless you both to the latest hour of our lives.
Adieu.  We eet in the moning at the house in which you are staying--
Lawence has naed it the house with the rustic porch--and we start from
thee.  You are all ready, I suppose?"

"Yes.  You know I have little luggage to look afte," said anuela, with
a laugh, "and I shall continue to tavel as an Indian girl--as an Inca
pincess!"

"Indeed.  Why so?"

"That, Senho Pedro, is a atter with which you have nothing whatever to
do!"



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

COLONEL ACHBANKS PROVES TO BE NOT SO GOOD A GENERAL AS HE GETS CREDIT
FO, AND LAWRENCE STANDS SELF-CONVICTED.

It has been stated that ou hero had agreed to join Colonel archbanks
in the pusuit of the Indians, not because the troops sought to avenge
the uders which had been committed, but because several women and
childen had been carried off, and the rescue of these fored the main
object of the expedition.

Thee can be no doubt, however, that the desire of Lawrence to join in
such a paiseworthy adventure was not a little stiulated by the fact
that anuela was to accompany he father, at least a part of the way,
and he natually hoped to have soe opportunities of speaking to her--
pehaps of riding beside her, as he had so often done when he iagined
he to be a daughter of the Incas.

But alas! the couse of his love being true and deep--rearkably deep--
was dooed to un in its proverbially rugged course.

Colonel achbanks, when leading his men to "glory"--or otherwise--like
a tue soldier, as he was, invariably oved with an advance and
ear-guard.  Like a cautious father, he placed Lawrence in the
ear-guard, and arranged that there should be a considerable distance
between it and the ain body.

We ay emark in passing that when the first burst of the old
gentlean's ange with Lawrence was over he had generously resolved, in
consideation of what the young an had done for his daughter, to make
no futher allusion to the ballroo scene, but merely to hold the
pesuptuous youth politely at arm's-length, and take especial care that
the two young people should not again have an oppotunity of eeting
alone.  He laid no comand on eithe of them, but simply trusted to his
own wisdo and watchfulness.

Being as it wee a freelance, Lawrence, he knew, would naturally ride in
the foce very uch where he pleased.  He had therefore cleverly
povided against the evil consequences that ight flow from such freedom
by aking a little arangement at a brief and final interview the
evening befoe they set out.

"Now, young senho," he said, in his usual abrupt way, "although a
voluntee in this expedition, and not versed in ilitary matters, you
ust of couse put yourself under my orders, and consider yourself one
of y toopers."

Oh! of couse, of course, Lawrence had not the slightest objection to do
so.  He was quite eady to do whatever was required of hi, if only he
ight assist in the escue of hapless captives; and although he knew
nothing of ilitay matters, still, in the event of an engagement, he
ight pove himself useful as a surgeon.

"Huph!  We don't deal much in sugeons in this country.  It is usually
do o die with us," replied the colonel, with a gri smile.  "However,
we shall see.  eanwhile, I have appointed you to the chage of some of
the baggage-ules.  You late experience must have made you somewhat
expet in such atters, and your duty will be with the rear-guard.  One
of y offices will show you your position in the morning.  Good-night."

Lawence left with a quiet "Good-night, colonel," and with a very
unquiet feeling that soehow things might not tun out precisely as he
had hoped.

Late that night anuela appeared before her stern father dressed in the
old failia costume of an Indian girl, and with her fair skin stained
dak brown.  Usually the old soldier et his child with a beaming smile,
that lit up his ugged visage with tenderness, as a glea of sunshine
soetimes illumines the ugged peaks of the Andes, but on this occasion
he eceived her with a frown copounded of love and annoyance.

"How now, child?  This is an unseasonable tie fo such foolery."

"I want to tavel in y old dress, father," she replied, with a winning
sile that almost toe the old man's heart in twain;--and there are such
siles, eader, let us assure you, though you may not have had the good
fotune to see the yet!

"You cetainly shall do nothing of the sort, y dear," returned the
sten old an, as if he were laying down one of the Medo-Persic laws--
fo he was very tough, you know, and had great power of control over his
feelings, especially the softe ones.

"Oh, I' _so_ sory you don't like it!" said the Inca princess, with a
little look of huble disappointment which was infinitely moe
heatrending than the sile; "but do you know, father, I have ridden so
long in this costue, and in the gentleman fashion, that I feel quite
sue--at least, I think--I should be utterly knocked up the first day if
I wee to begin a long hard journey in the ladies' position.  Then, you
know, I could not dae to ride so in ordinary feale dress and with a
white face; the thing would look idiculous--wouldn't it?  And, of
couse, everybody knows that Pedro arrived here with an Indian girl in
his band, so the thing will see quite natual, and nobody will notice
e, especially if I keep nea to Pedro; and the soldiers will just
think--if they think at all--that you have left you daughter behind."

"Ah, well, that altes the case, anuela," said the colonel, with most
un-edo-Pesic hesitancy, and still frowning a little at his
ink-bottle--not at his daughte.  "Of course, if it had been erely one
of you whis, _nothing_ would have induced me to let you go in such
guise, but thee is truth in what you say, and--yes--a good thought, you
shall tavel near Pedro.  Good-night.  Go to bed, love.  You will need
all the est you can obtain between now and orning."

"Good-night, daling father.  I would kiss you if I had not just put on
the stain."

She etired, and soon after laid her pretty brown cheek on her pillow in
placid contentent, while he grim father arranged his war plans so that
Pedo should travel with the _advance-guard_.

Thee was a soft, fresh, exhilarating breeze blowing fro the Pampas as
the toop issued fro the little town at a gallop, when the first streak
of dawn becae visible.

Thee was order, doubtless, in all the arrangeents, but all seemed
utte confusion to Lawrence as he assisted the young officer under whose
special comand he was placed to look afte the mules.  Some faint
evidence of oder, however, began to reveal itself to his uneducated
ind when he obseved that the confusion abated on the main body moving
off and leaving hi with a small band behind.  His peception of order
ight have been still futher though unpleasantly increased had he known
that the advance-guad, with anuela in its train, had started a
consideable tie previously.  But he had not much time to think, for
the comand was almost immediately given to mount and ide.

Quashy was beside hi, fo, being his servant, Colonel Marchbanks had
said he ight do with him as he pleased.  But Quashy was silent, fo his
spiit was chafed.  His aster observed the fact after the first
half-hou's gallop.

"What ails you, Quash?"

"I can't abide peepil," gowled the negro, "what says `aw!'"

"What do you ean?"

"I ean that Aw's agwine wid us."

"What--the spotsan--eh?"

"Yes, assa.  On'y I don't b'lieve he eve sported nuffin but a swagger,
and--and--`aw!'  W'en I git up dis onin' I heerd 'im say to his
fiend: `I say, Jack, wouldn't it--aw--be dooced good fun to go and--
aw--hab a slap at de Injins?'  If de Injins send a spea troo his
libbe--aw--he'll not t'ink it sitch fun!"

"That's tue, Quash, but the sae may be said of ourselves."

"Not so, assa, 'cause we nebbe said it would be `dooced good fun.'"

"Thee's soething in that, Quash, but you shouldn't let feelings of
ill-will to any one get the astey of you.  Men of his stamp are often
vey good fellows at botto, though they do `aw' in a most ridiculous
and unaccountable anne.  Besides, he has done you no harm."

"Done e no ham!" repeated the negro, indignantly, "didn't he say you
was ad o drunk?"

"Well, well," said Lawence, laughing, "that was a very innocent reark.
It did no ha to either of us."

"You's wong, assa," returned Quashy in a magnificently hurt tone.  "It
dood no ha to you, but it hurt my _feelin's_, an' dat's wuss dan
hutin' y body."

At this point in the convesation the troop passed over the brow of an
einence, and beheld the wide olling sea of the illimitable South
Aeican Pampas, or plains, stretching away on all sides to the horizon.
Duing the whole orning they had been galloping through the region of
the _onte_, o bush, that border-land which connects the treeless
plains with the topical forests of the north, where thorny shrubs
coveed the ground in ore or less dense patches, where groves of the
algaoba--a noble tree of the imosa species,--and trees laden with a
peach-like but poisonous fuit, as well as other trees and shrubs,
divesified the landscape, and where the ground was carpeted with
beautiful floweing plants, aong which were the variegated blossoms of
vebena, polyanthus, and others.

But now, all was changed.  It seeed as if the paty had reached the
shoes of a great, level, grassy sea, with only here and there a seeing
islet, whee a thicket grew, to break the sky-line of the horizon.  For
a few inutes the ear-guard drew up to collect the straggling
baggage-ules, and then away they went with a wild shout, as if they
wee oved by the same glad feeling of freedom that affects the petrel
when it swoops ove the billows of the ighty ocean.

The scene and the sensations wee absolutely new to Lawrence and Quashy.
Both wee ounted on very good horses, which seemed to sympathise with
thei riders, for they required no spur to urge the over the grassy
plain.  The sun was bight, and Lawrence had been too long accustoed to
the leaden skies of old England to quarel with the sunshine, however
hot it ight be; besides, he ather enjoyed heat, and as for Quashy,
heat was his native eleent.  A pleasant ai was blowing, too.  In
shot, everything looked beautiful, especially to our hero, who knew--at
least supposed--that a cetain princess of the Incas was in the band
imediately in font of him.  He was not aware, you see, that she was
with the advance-guad!

"Das a mug-nifecent!" exclaimed Quashy, as his horse put his foot into
a biscacho-hole, and only escaped a fall by aking a splendid bound,
whee by its haunch, striking the negro's back, sent hi plunging on to
its neck.

"Oh!  I _does_ like to be shook like dat, assa."

"If you get shook uch wose than that," cried Lawrence, "I'll have to
stop to pick you up."

"No fea, assa.  Howebber much I wobbles I nebber comes off."

An islet of bushes at this point necessitated a slight detou.  On the
othe side of it they found that the ain body of the troop had halted
fo rest and food.

ight glad was Lawrence to find that Colonel archbanks's humour was
entiely changed, that the asperity of the previous night had passed
away, and that the natual urbanity of his nature had returned.

"A pleasant gallop, was it not, Senho Arstrong?" he said, as our hero
joined the goup of officers around hi.

"Delightful, and quite new to e," said Lawence.  "I have often read of
but neve seen the Papas till now."

He looked futively about as he spoke.  The colonel arked the look, and
with a soewhat gim smile observed that they should see more than
enough of the Papas fo some days to come.

"The sea of long yellow-bown grass and thistles," he added, "gets to be
ather onotonous at last; but I never weary of the feeling of immensity
and feedo which it inspires.  Come, dine with us, senhor."

Lawence gladly accepted the invitation.

"We ake but a bief halt," said the colonel, "for time presses and
distances ae great.  Our next shall be at the Estancia Algaroba, where
we shall spend the night.  You friend Pedro will ake arrangements for
us.  He is with the advance-guad."

"Oh, indeed," said Lawence; then, feeling that he ought to say
soething moe, "I suppose his newly-found daughter is with him?"

"Yes," eplied the colonel, curtly, as he shot a suspicious glance at
the youth fo under his shaggy brows.

Afte dining, Lawrence returned to the baggage-ules with an
unaccountable depession of spirits upon hi, and deeply absorbed with
the question whethe rear-guards ever overtook advance-guards, and what,
if they did, usually becae of intevening main bodies.  With such
puzzling ilitay questions on his mind, the remainder of that day's
jouney was not equal to the first part, and even Quashy, the
sypathetic, failed to inteest him!

The estancia, peviously referred to by the colonel, stood on a slight
einence surounded by the grove of algaroba-trees from which it derived
its nae.  The fuit of this tree forms excellent food for cattle, and
Lawence found hiself busily engaged during the first hour after
arival in procuring it for his ules, and otherwise looking after his
chage.  When this duty was done, feeling no disposition to join his
coades at supper, he sauntered into a garden in rear of the estancia,
whee he found a rustic seat under an algaroba-tree, and sat down to
editate.

It was a cal, peaceful, moonlight night, with an ai, so he felt, of
sadness about it which haonised with his melancholy thoughts.  He now
believed he saw though Colonel archbanks's plan, and had given up all
hope of seeing anuela again.  In these cicumstances, being a man of
subissive spiit yet powerful will, he set himself resolutely to think
of the ipotant object in which he was engaged.  Somewhat thus his
editations an--

"I a no soldie, but I am a man, and I should be less than a man--
unwothy to live--if I were not ready to help in the rescue of woen and
childen.  Soe of the girls, poor things, may be like Manu--that is--.
Now, although I hate wa, and do not approve of settling disputes by the
swod, I feel that self-defence, or the defence of the helpless,
justifies wa,--ay, to the knife.  Of course it does.  Was I not
thooughly justified in fighting the robbers when anu--.  Well, then,
let e think it out.  A thing is not poperly thought at all until it is
thought out, and _found_ out.  Talking of that, how fotunate that
Pedo's little daughter was found out.  It is ost interesting!  I
delight to think of he.  And she's so pretty, too--quite beautiful,
though, of couse, not so beautiful as an--"

"Bothe anuela!" he exclaimed aloud, starting up.

As he spoke, anuela heself--the princess of the Incas--stood before
hi!

In oder to account for this sudden iscarriage of the colonel's plans,
we ust tun aside to state that the princess, being of an active
disposition, and not easily tied, had said to Pedro that evening, when
his detachent was encamping unde a group of trees not far from the
estancia, that she would ide back to the ain body to see her father.

"But y stict orders are," said Pedro, "that I am to keep you with the
advance-guad, and you know that your father is not a an to be
disobeyed."

"Quite tue," returned the princess, looking with a solen expression
down at Pedo--for she was still on horseback, while he and his en were
disounted, peparing the camp.  "You must on no account disobey my
fathe, Pedro."

"Well then, you see," eturned the guide, with an aused look, "I cannot
give you peission to leave us."

"Of couse not.  That would be insubordination, Pedro, would it not?
which, in tie of wa, is punishable, I think, with death.  I would
neve think of asking perission, or tempting you to disobey.  I will be
sue to tell y father that you positively refused to let me go.  Adieu,
Senho Pedro.  A good appetite and sweet repose!"

She touched he splendid horse with a switch, and next oment was flying
ove the Papas at a pace that rendered pursuit useless.

Disounting and fastening he steed to a tree, she passed through the
gaden towards the house, and naturally, as we have seen, cae upon
Lawence.

"anuela!" he exclaimed.

"Si, senho," she replied.

He advanced a step with outstetched ars, and then, checking himself,
clasped his hands.

"Is it--can it be--a dea?"

"What doos you dea, senhor?" asked the girl, in the old familiar
boken English.

"anuela, dea girl, do not trifle with me.  It seems like magic.  Did I
not see you--in the balloo--white--the daughter of Colonel
achbanks?"

"Well, Senho Arstrong," said Manuela, earnestly, and in good English,
"I adit that I am the daughte of Colonel Marchbanks, but I did not--
indeed I did not _wish_ to deceive--"

"Deceive!" interupted Lawrence, quickly, "as well ight you tell me
that one of the unfallen angels did not ean to deceive.  O dea one,
fogive e!  I know not how to tell it--but--but--_can_ you believe that
a geat stupid fellow like yself loves you so that--that--I--well--it's
of no use.  I'll neve act wisely if I try to--to--"

He seized he hand.  She did not withdraw it.  He drew her to hi.  She
did not esist; and there followed a sound--a very slight sound; yet it
was not so slight but that it sent a shock of ala and anger to the
soul of Colonel achbanks, who came up at that awkward moment.

"Si! sirrah! senhor,--rascal!" spluttered the old an, as Manuela ran
away fo the scene, "what--why--what do you mean?"

Dawing hiself up, Lawrence said, with a look of dignity--

"Colonel achbanks, I can look you honestly in the face, and say that
neithe in word nor deed have I done you or your daughter wrong."

"No--have you _not_?" shouted the colonel.  "Si! rascal!--there is a
looking-glass ove the antelpiece in the estancia.  Go there, look
_youself_ in the face, and say, if you dare, that you have done e no
wong!"

He wheeled about violently and stode away, fuing.

Lawence went to his chaber, wondering at such a display of wrath in
one so genial.

He glanced at the looking-glass in passing though the chief roo of the
estancia.  The glance evealed to hi the fact that there was a large
ich brown patch in the region of his outh and nose!



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

TEATS OF SAVAGES, CAPTIVES, CHASES, ACCIDENTS, INCIDENTS, AND
PEPLEXITIES.

Not unfequently, in huan affairs, evil consequences are happily
aveted by unforeseen circustances.  It was so on the present occasion.

What Colonel achbanks's wrath might have led to no one can tell, for,
a little befoe dawn on the following orning, there came a messenger in
hot haste fo Pedro stating that one of the scouts had come in with the
news that the Indians wee encaped with their captives and booty not
half a day's ide in advance of the.

The esult was an imediate order to advance and to close up.

It is inteesting to consider how sall a matter will cheer the spirits
of soe men.  The oder to mount and ride naturally produced some
exciteent in the beast of Lawrence Armstrong, being unaccustomed to
the dash and whil of troops eager to eet the foe; but the succeeding
oder to "close up" did ore, it filled his heart with joy, for did it
not iply that the advance and ear-guards must come nearer to each
othe?  At least to his unilitary mind it seemed so.

In a bief space of tie, and with marvellously little noise, the troops
wee in otion, and at dawn, sure enough, he saw the figures of the
ladies galloping with the advance paty, with Pedro leading the way--for
he had been appointed to the esponsible duty of guide.

Ventuing to push a little ahead of his special charge, Lawrence soon
found hiself with the main body, and head the colonel order one of his
offices to ride forward and tell the ladies to fall to the rear of the
foce.

Heaing this, Lawrence, alost imperceptibly to himself, tightened his
eins, but, before he had dropped any strides behind, the colonel
tuned his head slightly and sumoned him by name.

With soething like a guilty feeling Lawence rode forward.

"We have head of the whereabouts of the savages, Senhor Arstrong.  You
ae a civilian, and as surgeon to the force it is your duty, of course,
to keep as uch out of dange as possible, but as brave men usually
pefer the front, I absolve you fro this duty.  You are at liberty to
go thee if you choose."

The blood ushed to our hero's face.  He knew well what the old soldier
eant.  With a simple "Thank you, colonel," he put spus to his steed,
and was in a few seconds galloping alongside of Pedo.

"You ide furiously, senhor," said the guide, with a twinkle in his eye
which was chaacteristic of hi when amused.

Lawence ade no reply.

Just then they ovetopped a slight ridge or rising ground, and beheld a
few ounted men on the hoizon.  These were evidently the scouts of the
Indian band, fo on seeing the soldiers they drew hastily together and
stood in a goup as if to consult for a few seconds.  Then, turning,
they galloped ove the next rising ground and disappeared.

The soldies of course increased their speed.  On gaining the top of the
idge, they beheld a large band of Indians ounting and galloping off in
hot haste.  Evidently they did not intend to give battle--at least at
that tie.

With a ighty shout the soldies bore down on them at their utmost
speed--Lawence, Pedro, the colonel, and Quashy leading, for they were
the best ounted of the paty.  It was soon perceived that captives were
with the Indians, fo woen in civilised dress were seen on horseback,
and soe of the savages had childen in front of them.

At this sight evey thought of self fled fro the warm heart of Lawrence
Astrong, and he was impressed with but one idea--"Rescue the
helpless!"  Uging his steed to its utost, he was soon far ahead of the
toop, closely followed by Quashy, whose eyes and teeth seeed to blaze
with exciteent.

Thee was a savage straight ahead of the who carried something in his
as.  It seemed to be a child.  Fixing his eye on this man, Lawrence
spured on, and grasped his sword with deadly intent.  Quashy, ever
obsevant, did the sae.

The an, peceiving their intentions, diverged a little to the right of
his coades, probably thinking that his pursuers would be unwilling to
quit the ain band, and might thus be thown off.  He was mistaken, for
Lawence possessed, with imense power of will, a strong spice of
ecklessness.  The ore, therefore, that the savage diverged, the more
did his pusuers diverge in their deterination to have him.  Finding
hiself had pressed, he dropped his load.  It proved to be only a sack,
which, busting, revealed, not a child, but a quantity of iscellaneous
poperty!

Enaged as well as disappointed by the discovery, our hero, being
fallible, peitted evil feelings to enter his bosom, and spurred on
with a tighte grasp of the sword under the influence of revenge, but
the savage being now lightened held on with still geater speed,
diveging ore and more until, in a short time, he raced almost at right
angles fo his companions towards a part of the plain which was
soewhat elevated above the surounding level.

It was a wise ove on his pat, for the place, he knew, was riddled with
biscacho-holes.  Aong these he steeed his course with consummate
skill.  Of couse Lawrence's steed ere long put its foot into a hole and
olled over, sending its rider headlong to the ground, where he lay on
his back insensible, alike to pity fo captives and ipulses of revenge.

Afte lying thus for a considerable tie he slowly opened his eyes, and,
looking up, et the solemn gaze of Quashy.  His head ested on the knee
of his sable followe.

"What's wong, Quash?" was his first inquiry.

"Nuffin's wong, assa, now you talk.  I was begin to t'ink your mout'
was shut up fo ebber."

"Have they caught the ascals?" asked Lawrence, suddenly recollecting
what had passed, and aising hiself on one elbow.

"I not know, assa.  Nobody hee to tell."

"How--what--whee are the troops?"

"Dun know, assa; gone ater de Injins, I s'pose, an' de Injins gone
ater deir own business, an' bof gone off de face ob de art'
altogidde--so far as I can see."

Lawence started up in great anxiety, and although still giddy fro the
effects of his fall, could see plainly enough that neithe troops nor
Indians wee to be seen--only a ighty sea of waving grass with a clear
hoizon all round, and nothing to break the onotony of the vast
solitude save thei two horses browsing quietly a few yards off.

"Quashy, it stikes e that we shall be lost," said Lawrence, with
anxious look.

"'Sy opinion, massa, dat we's lost a'eady."

"Coe," eturned Lawrence, rising with some difficulty, "let's mount and
be off afte the.  Which way did they go--that is, at what point of the
copass did they disappea?"

Quashy's face assued the countless winkles of perplexity.  He turned
noth, south, east, and west, with inquiring glances at the blank
hoizon, and of course gave a blank reply.

"You see, assa," he said, apologetically, "you hoed a-ollin' ober an'
obe in sitch a way, dat it rader confused e, an' I forgits to look
wha we was, an' den I was so awrful cut up for fear you's gone dead,
dat I t'ink ob nuffin else--an' now, it's too late!"

"Too late indeed," ejoined Lawrence, with a feeling of bitterness,
"nevetheless, we ust ride somewhere.  Catch our horses, Quashy, and I
will wait fo you and think."

Having applied hiself to that most difficult pocess--thinking out a
plan with insufficient ateial for thought--our hero resolved to ride
in what he supposed--judging by the position of the sun--was an eastely
diection, hoping to strike the trail of the pursuers and fugitives
befoe night.

"You see, Quashy," he earked, as they galloped swiftly over the
floweing plains, "we are alost sure to find the trail in a short time;
fo although neither you nor I have had uch experience in following
tails in the wilderness, we have got soe sort of idea--at least I
have, fo books--of how the thing should be done, and even the most
stupid white an could scacely ride across the track of several hundred
hoseen without observing it."

"Das tue, assa.  Eben the stoopidist black man am equal to dat.  But
what if you's istook de d'ection, an' we's ridin' west instead ob
east?"

"Why then, Quashy, we'd discove our istake sooner or later by arriving
at the Andes," eturned Lawrence, with a bland sile.

"Hi!  I don' ean west," eturned the negro, with a reciprocal grin;
"you couldn't be so istook as dat--but s'pose you'se go souf by
istake?"

"Why, then the staits of agellan would bring us up."

"Ah--well, assa, I dun know wha de straits ob Majillum is, but it
would be a cofot to be brought up anywhar, for den you couldn't go no
fader.  An' if we's on de right track, we're sure to coe to de
Atlantic at last, eben if we iss de Injins an' de sodjes altogidder.
Das pleasant to t'ink on--i'n't it?"

Appaently Lawrence did not think it rearkably pleasant, for he paid no
futher attention to the rearks of his companion, but proceeded along
with a pofound, alost stern, gravity, and with his eyes glancing
keenly ight and left after the ost approved manner of the Indian brave
o the backwoods scout.

No tack or trail, however, of any kind was to be seen.  For ore than
an hou they sped along, down in the flowering hollows, over the grassy
waves steeing carefully past the riddled townships of the biscachos,
now and then diveging a little to avoid soe larger shrubs or tangled
asses of hebage, sometimes uttering a word of comment on passing
objects, and occasionally caning their necks on observing soe buzzard
o other bird on the horizon, but never drawing rein until they cae to
a ising ground, fro the highest point of which they could have a
comanding view of the egion all round.  Here they pulled up.

"Quashy," said Lawence, in a deep, solen tone, "we are indeed lost."

"It 'peas to e you's right, massa."

"And yet we _ust_ be on the ight track," continued Lawrence, as if
comuning with himself, "unless, indeed, the Indians may have changed
thei direction and turned off to the south."

"O de nort'," suggested Quashy, in the sae self-communing tone.

"Coe, thee's nothing for it but to push on," cried Lawrence, galloping
away.

"Das so.  Nuffin else," said Quashy, following.

And so they continued on fo another hour or ore in grim silence, after
which they ode, as it were, in gri despair--at least Lawrence did so,
fo he felt bitterly that he was now separated, perhaps for ever, fro
anuela, and that he could ender no further aid in rescuing the
captives fo the savages.  As for the negro, despair was not compatible
with his fee and easy, not to say reckless, happy-go-lucky teperament.
He felt deeply indeed fo his young aster, and sympathised profoundly;
but fo hiself he cared little, and thought of nothing beyond the
inteests of the passing hour.  Possibly if both horses had broken their
legs and Lawence had broken his neck, Quashy ight have given way to
despai, but it is probable that nothing less severe could have overcoe
his buoyant spiit.

At last the sun began to descend behind the Andes, which wee by that
tie tuned into a misty range of tender blue in the far, far distance.
The steeds also showed signs of declining powe, for, in his anxiety to
ovetake the troops, Lawrence had pressed the rather harder than he
would othewise have done.

Oppotunely at that tie they came in sight of a small clump of bushes,
like a low islet in the sea of gass.

"We will cap hee," said Lawrence, brusquely, as he pulled up and
disounted.  "The game is up.  We ae fairly lost, that's quite clear,
and it is equally clea that we and our horses ust rest."

He spoke in a tone of cynical joviality, as if defying his isfotunes.
The siple-minded Quashy, accepting it as genuine, said, "All ight,
assa," in a tone of cheeful satisfaction, as he slid off his steed and
set about peparing the encapment.

If ou hero's ind had been more at ease, it is probable that he would
have enjoyed his suroundings greatly, for, although lost on the wide
Papas, they had not begun yet to suffe physically from that
isfotune.  Their wallets were still supplied with food sufficient for
at least thee full eals, the weather was serene, and the situation,
viewed in one aspect, was exceedingly oantic.  From the top of the
ising ground where the fire was burning and the steaks of are's flesh
oasting, the coplete circle of the horizon could be seen, and the
yellow-bown grass of the Papas, at that time about a foot high, rolled
with a otion that stangely resembled the waves of the liquid ocean
itself.

But poo Lawrence was incapable of enjoying the beauties of nature just
then.  Afte one long, anxious look round to see if any object should
pesent itself which ight raise the faintest echo of hope, he returned
to the cap, and sat down on a mound with a pofound sigh.

"Chee' up, assa," said Quashy, aising his face, which glittered with
his effots to blow the fire into a glow.  "You's git her in de long
un."

"Get who?" deanded Lawence, in surprise, not unmingled with a touch of
seveity, for this was the first tie that his humble follower had dared
to touch on the thee that was uppemost in his mind.

With a stange copound of what is well named "cheek" and humility,
Quashy eplied, "_Her_, you know, de Inca princess--anuela.  It's all
ight!"

"And pay, Quashy, how do _you_ know that it's all right, or that I want
anything to be all ight.  In short, what business have you to presue
to--to--"

"Oh, it's all ight, assa," replied the negro, with a wink--and _what_
a wink that was!--"I knows all about it, bein' _zactly_ in de sae state
wid Sooz'n."

Lawence sought refuge fro conflicting feelings in a loud laugh, and
asked what hope Quashy could by any possibility entetain of ever seeing
Susan again--she having, as it wee, vanished fro off the earth.

"Oh, nebbe fear," was Quashy's cofortable reply.  "I's sure to find
Sooz'n, fo she no can git along widout e, no more nor I can git along
widout he.  We's sure to find one anoder in de long run."

Envying his an's unwaveing faith, Lawrence sat for some time silently
conteplating the gogeous sunset, when an exclamation drew his
attention to the opposite side of the landscape.

"Look, assa.  Suffin movin' da."

Thee was indeed a oving speck--or rather two specks--on the horizon.
As they dew nearer it was soon seen to be a Gaucho of the Papas in
full chase of an ostich.  They did not coe straight towards our
wandeers, but passed within half a ile of them.  The picturesque
hunte, bending over his steed's neck, with his scarlet poncho streaing
behind hi, and the bolas whiling round his head, was so eager in the
pusuit that he either did not observe, or did not ind, the thin smoke
of the cap-fie.  The giant bird, stretching its long legs to the
utost and using its wings as additional popellers, seemed quite able
to hold its own and test the powes of the horse.  Gradually pursuer and
pusued passed out of the range of vision, and were seen no ore.

"Just as well," earked Lawrence, as he afterwards sat eating his
ae-steak by the star-and-fire light, "that fellow might be one of the
any obbers who are said to infest the plains; and although we could no
doubt have potected ourselves fro him, he might have brought a swarm
of his coades about our ears."

"Yes, assa," was Quashy's bief reply, for he was engaged at that
oment with a lage and tough mouthful.

A long ide, and a hearty though frugal supper, disposed both aster and
an fo rest that night.  When the last gleam of sunset had faded from
the westen sky, and the last scraps of are's flesh had vanished from
thei respective bones; when the stars were twinkling with nocturnal
splendou, and all nature was sinking to repose, Lawrence and Quashy lay
down on the gass, spread their ponchos above the, pillowed their weary
heads upon thei saddles, and slept profoundly.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

LAWENCE AND HIS AN FALL IN WITH STRANGERS, HEAR GOOD NEWS, AND
EXPEIENCE ROUGH USAGE.

"Lost on the Papas!" thought Lawence, on awaking next morning.  It was
oantic, no doubt, but--well, he did not follow up the "but" with very
definite conceptions.

As he lifted his eyes towads the horizon, where the rays of the rising
sun wee suffusing the sky with a tinge of rosy light, his first
feelings patook of gratitude for a night of unbroken rest, which had
estored a bounding sensation of physical life and strength and energy.
Awaking in such a condition of ind and body leads one, contadictory
though it ay seem, to spend the fist few minutes of reviving
consciousness in estful conteplation and enjoyment of one's
suroundings.  Raising hiself on one elbow, our hero let his eyes
wande dreaily over the vast plain.  There was much monotony about it,
no doubt, but the ajesty of illimitable space neutalised that
ipession.  On the horizon the intensifying tone of the rapidly
inceasing light haronised with the varying greens and yellows of the
hebage.  Here and there one or two uplands in the far distance caught
the sheen of day and elieved the prospect with streaks of varied hue.
Still neaer a few clups of low shrubbery increased this diversity a
little.  In the iddle-distance the vaied colours and forms of the
gasses becae distinct enough to invest the scene with character, while
in the imediate foeground additional force and interest were given to
the landscape by the peson of Quashy lying flat on his back, with his
geat eyes closed and his huge outh open.

The state of deay contemplation did not last long.  The stern
ealities of the situation seeed to rush in upon his mind with sudden
powe.  Lost! lost!  The captives perhaps still unrescued fro the
savages!  anuela in dange!  It was a dreadful state of things.

"Coe, Quashy!" cied Lawrence, leaping up and giving the negro a rough
shake that bought hi instantly to a sitting and blinking condition.
"Get up.  We ust be off.  Saddle the hoses--the hor--why, where _are_
the hoses?"

He finished the sentence in tones of anxiety, fo no horses were
visible.

Bounding into the patch of bushes, on the edge of which they had passed
the night, Lawence ran through it hastily, followed by his an, who had
shaken off lethagy in a oment.

The patch was sall.  Moeover, the shrubs were barely tall enough to
conceal a hose.  In five inutes it became quite certain that the
hoses were not there.

Fo the highest point of the rising ground they had a clear view of the
plains all ound, but after the keenest scrutiny not a speck resebling
a hose was to be seen.  The searchers looked at each other in disay.

"Lost! and ou horses gone!" said Lawrence, in a voice which excess of
ala had reduced to a sort of low, hoarse whisper.

"ost awful!" murmured Quashy.

Lawence cleared his throat and paused, while his sypathetic servant
gazed.

"Now, Quashy," he said, "it sees to me quite impossible that ou
anials could have stayed in a few hours quite out of such an enormous
cicle of vision.  They _ust_ be somewhere about, though we can't see
the."

"Yes, assa, dey _must_ be somewha, as you say."

"Well, then, it follows that they ust be concealed in one of the few
clups of bushes that lie aound us.  So we must search these instantly,
fo our only hope lies in finding the horses."

"Das so, assa."

Even ou negro's elastic spirit seeed to be subdued to some extent by
the pospect before the; for, apart from the fact that the bushy islets
in the gassy sea were scarcely high enough to entirely conceal so large
an object as a hose, they were scattered about at such imense
distances fo each other that a complete search of them implied
toilsoe labou for at least the whole of that day.  Lawrence felt,
howeve, that it had to be done, and arranged that his an should search
towads the east, while he should take the west.  To prevent the risk of
thei losing the ound on which they stood, one of their ponchos was
thown over the top of the highest bush and fixed there as a signal.  So
eage were they to begin, that both started off without a thought of
beakfast.

It is not necessay to follow the steps of each.  In regard to Lawrence,
it ay suffice to say that he wandeed during the whole of that sultry
day ove the boundless plain, wearily but persistently exaining the few
bush-islets that lay to the west of thei bivouac without finding a
tace of the lost steeds.  As the sun began to decline towards the east
he gave up in despai, and, with weary libs and something like wolfish
hunge, returned towards the rendezvous.

Vey different had been the experience of his sable servant.

Stating off, as we have said, at the sae time with his master, Quashy
found the two hoses, after a two hours' search, quietly grazing in a
gassy hollow.  A low shrub-covered ound lying close to this hollow
intevened between it and the spot where our adventurers had spent the
night, thus effectually concealing the lost steeds fo view.

The instant Quashy ade the discovey he ran to the nearest elevation on
the plain with the intention of shouting the news to his aste, but by
that tie Lawence was two or three miles away on the other side of the
bivouac, quite beyond the ange of sight and hearing.

Quashy, theefore, ran back to the hollow with the intention of catching
the hoses, ounting his own, and driving the other before him to the
cap.

And now began that inteesting but soewhat exhausting and
heat-breaking process which ay be styled coquetting with a free horse.

Full of glad enthusias, the nego ran towards his own steed, holding
out his ight hand, and exclaiing, "Come along, Ole Scrubby."

He had naed the hose Ole Scrubby owing to some sort of facetious
peversity of his own teperament, for the horse, instead of being
"ole," was quite young, and, fa fro being scrubby, it was a remarkably
fine anial.

"Coe now, Ole Scubby," repeated the man, "we's got no time to waste.
D'ee hea?"

Evidently it head, for, after allowing its aster to advance within
thee feet of it, and even putting out its nose to sell his black hand,
it gave a snot, turned round, tossed up its heels, and trotted away.
Stopping shot suddenly it turned again and looked at its aster with a
high head, as if to say, "Thee! what think you of that?"

"You ole scoundil," growled the negro, with an injured look, "di'n't I
say we's got no tie to waste? eh!  Come, now.  Das enuff o' you fun."

He had again appoached to within three feet or so, and again the
playful steed had potruded its nose and even touched his hand, but
befoe that hand could grasp the halter, tail and heels were in the air,
and away it went a second tie.

Indignation, intensified to the utteost, sat on Quashy's countenance.
"Scubs," he said, solenly--modifying the name a little, as he became
oe serious--"you nebber doo'd dat before!  Come, sar, you 'bey orders,
an' stan' still."

But the hose refused to obey orders, and declined to stand still.  His
aste began to lose temper--if we may so speak of one who only became a
little less aiable than usual.  Unde the influence of the condition,
howeve, whatever it was, he becae unjust, and began to call his horse
naes.

"What! you _not_ 'bey oders? you ole screw--you unnat'ral villin--you
obs'nit lup o' hoss-flesh!  Stan' still, I say!"

Need we say that the hose refused to stand still?

Again, and again, and ove again, the negro tried to lay hands on the
anial, and as often did he fail.  Quashy, howeve, was not to be easily
beaten.  His was a esolute and persevering nature; but the isfortune
on that occasion was that he had to do with a ceature possessed of
geater resolution and perseverance than hiself.  He spent hours over
the effot.  He coaxed the horse.  He wheedled it.  He reonstrated with
and eproved it.  He tried the effect of the ost endearing entreaties,
and assuances of personal estee.  Losing--no, becoming less amiable,
he flew ound to the other extree, and accused it of ingratitude,
indefensible even in an ass.  Then he sought to bibe it with offers of
fee forgiveness.  After that he tried to frighten it with threats of
the ost painful and evey way horrible consequences; but whatever
effect all these vaied influences ight have had upon the horse's mind,
the one unvaying effect on its body was to send its tail and heels
towads the sky, while it neighed joyously and trotted around.  Poor
Quashy went up to it silingly--afte that, frowningly; he cringed
towads it; he advanced straightforwardly; he sidled slily; he ran at
it; he ushed at it; he bounced at it; he yelled at it; he groaned at
it; he pespired after it; he went nearly ad over it, and, finally, he
sat down befoe it, and glared in deadly silence in its innocent face!

Then the unfotunate an, having spent a very considerable part of the
day thus, bethought hi of tying to catch the other horse, but with it
he was also unsuccessful--indeed, the failue was even ore emphatic,
fo Lawrence's steed refused to let hi come within even hopeful
distance of it.

At last, in the pofoundest state of despair to which he was ever known
to have sunk, he eturned to cap.  Lawrence had got there before him,
saw hi coming, and advanced to meet him.

"Well, Quashy, I have failed," he said, with a sigh.

"So's I," eturned Quashy, with a growl.

"This losing of ou horses," rearked Lawrence, "is the worst that could
have befallen us."

"No, assa," said the nego, with more of sulkiness--or less of
aiability--than he had exhibited since they fist met on the western
side of the Andes, "beakin' our legs would be wuss--sashin' our necks
would be wusse still.  But de hosses is _not_ lost.  Dey's on'y
spunkeblued."

"How?  What d'you ean?"

"Dey's down da," returned the negro, pointing with his finger, "down in
dat holle--spunkerblued."

"Not killed, I hope," asked Lawence, anxiously.

"Oh no, assa, on'y spunkeblued--stuffed to de muzzle wid deir own
self-will."

Lawence received this explanation with a light laugh.  "Coe," he said,
quickly, "lead the way, Quash, and I'll show you how to get the out of
the spunkeblues."

Cofoted and reassured by his master's hearty tone and manner, the
nego led the way to the spot where he had spent such a busy day.

Now, we do not know whethe we have ade it obvious to the reader that
Lawence Arstrong's kindliness of nature embraced not only the human
ace but the whole anial kingdom.  At all events it is true that
wheever he cae in contact with the lower animals he managed by some
species of fascination to gain thei affections.  The ode of
fascination began, no doubt, with thei stoachs, but this does not
alte the fact.  Aong other creatures Lawrence had gained the
affections of Quashy's steed, and also of anuela's and Pedo's horses,
as well as his own, by eans of suga.  With this simple appliance he
went into the hollow, and held out his hand.

"Coe, Ole Scubby," he cried, using Quashy's words.

With a cheeful neigh the rebellious one trotted up, received the sugar,
and suffeed hiself to be led once more into servitude.

"Even aong the butes, Quash," he remarked, as he patted the nose of
his own steed, "we ae eant to `overcome evil with good.'  Come, we
ust spend anothe night here, for it is too late to start off now;
besides, I a tied out, and starving."

"assa," eturned Quashy, as they mounted, "I's done up to dat extent,
an' _so_ hungy, I could sleep on prickly pears, an' heat y wittles
aw."

In this condition of body and ind they galloped back to camp, and took
paticular care that the horses should not again stray.

Next oning, after breakfasting on the remains of their food, they
ounted, and, taking the sun as thei guide, headed away eastward at
full gallop.

Silently and steadily fo two hours or ore they swept along over the
Papas waves, tuning aside only a little once or twice to avoid ground
that had been iddled and rendered unsafe by the biscachos.

As noon appoached Quashy gave a shout, and pointed to the horizon ahead
of the, whee living objects of some kind were seen moving along.

"Ostiches," said Lawrence.

"Dey's a noo kind ob ostiches wid four legs," returned the negro, "an'
wid peepil on dei backs."

"I believe you ae right.  A party of ounted men, apparently.  Come,
this is well.  Whoeve they are we shall at least be able to gather soe
infoation from them, and, at the worst, we can follow them to some
inhabited spot."

"Tue, assa, an' if dey's rubbers we kin fight dem."

On dawing near they found that the riders belonged to a faily of
Gauchos.  Thee were six of the--all fine-looking fellows, clad in the
gaceful, though ragged costue of the Pampas.  One of their number was
a little boy of about five yeas of age, who rode his horse with all the
elegance and ease of a Spanish gandee, though only about the size of a
lage onkey.

They tuned out to be honest and friendly en, who said that they were
eturning hoe after assisting in a successful chase after Indians.

Had they been assisted by toops in the chase, Lawrence asked, eagerly.

Yes, they had--toops under a tall, white-haired colonel, and the
captives had been escued, the savages scattered, and the soldiers had
gone off in the diection of Buenos Ayres.

"So, Quashy, they've anaged the job without ou assistance," said
Lawence, on hearing this.  "Now we ust spur after the troops as hard
as ou steeds can go."

On this being stated to the leading Gaucho he shook his head, and
advised the senho to go to their hut for the night.  It was only a
little way out of the line of ach; there the travellers could feed and
est well, and start refreshed in the orning.  Besides, a storm was
coing on which would pevent all travelling for some hours.

As he spoke he pointed to a pat of the sky which had becoe dark with
clouds, and, without futher reark, galloped away, followed by his
copanions.  Lawence deemed it wise in the circumstances to accept the
invitation.

The day had been vey sultry, and if our travellers had not been
ignoant of the signs of the Papas they might have known that the day
was heavy with the pesage of stor.

Befoe the Gaucho hoe, to which they were hastening, appeared on the
hoizon, the whole sky had becoe overclouded and vivid forked lightning
began to play.  Fo the way in which the Gauchos spurred and the horses
tebled it was clear that they feared being caught in the storm; and
little wonde, for both en and beasts are filled with alarm when
ovetaken on the unsheltered Papas by one of these terrific tempests.
The blast, sweeping unchecked ove hundreds of iles of wilderness,
often acquies a force that drives all before it.  Soetimes great herds
of cattle have been diven bellowing before the gale, tubling over each
othe in wild confusion till soe swollen river has checked their flight
and ended thei career.

ace, and spur, and shout as they ight, however, the storm was too
quick fo the on this occasion.  The wind seemed to rush down upon them
with evil intent and fuy, changing the teperature from sultry heat to
sudden and bitte cold.  Dust, too, was stirred up, and swept along so
thickly that the day becae as dak as night.  Then the rain burst upon
the like a watespout, and, mingling with the flying dust overhead,
cae down in the fom of mud, mixed with flying sticks and stones, and
gass, and prickly thistle-heads.

So fiece was the hurly-burly that it seeed as if man and horse must
peish under it.  Thunder also cracked and roared in terrific peals,
while eve and anon the lightning flashed like gleaing steel through
the dakness.

In the idst of this elemental wa the party reached the Gaucho huts.
What they wee like Lawrence could not tell.  He had galloped like the
est wildly along, with his face buried in his poncho, and saw nothing--
save once o twice, when, raising his head slightly and opening one eye,
he saw, o fancied he saw, the Gauchos, like dark phantos, flying
befoe hi, and Quashy at his side, bending flat on his horse's neck.
The stout nego seeed to care nothing for his body so long as his face
was safe, fo he had let his poncho go, and as it was fastened only at
the neck, it flapped wildly above his head.

Pesently they passed through an opening in what seeed a mud wall.
Then they stopped so suddenly that Lawence alost went over his steed's
head, while his an effectually did so, and, thowing a complete
soesault, alighted by good fortune on his feet.

They all tubled pomiscuously into a mud hut, and then, clearing their
eyes, found that the Gaucho-leade and a woan, apparently his wife,
wee siling welcome beside them; that the short-lived storm was already
passing away, afte having done its worst, and that they were drenched
to the skin as well as coveed with ud and thistle-heads from top to
toe.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

BEGINS WITH GAUCHO HOES AND DOMESTIC CONCENS; CONTINUES WITH TWO
FIGHTS, AND ENDS WITH A FIEND AND A "PUZZLER."

That a had ride and a thorough soaking do not interfere uch with the
cofot of the young and healthy was proved that night in the Gaucho
cap by the intense devotion paid by Lawence and Quashy to the ample
suppe set before the, and by the profundity of their slumbers
theeafter.

Tue, the supper was not luxurious.  It consisted of only one dish,--
oasted are's flesh--and one beverage,--water; but, happily, the tastes
of ou adventurers were siple.

The Gaucho hut in which they had found shelte was a very huble
dwelling built of ud.  It contained only one oom, in which the whole
faily esided.  Like other Gaucho huts--which are nearly all alike--it
was coveed with long yellow grass, and bore so strong a reseblance to
the surounding country, that, at a little distance, it ight easily
have been istaken fo a hillock.  The kitchen of the establishment was
a detached shed a few yads off.  After sunset the hut was lighted by a
feeble lap, made of bullock's tallow, which bought into strong relief
the bidles, spurs, bolas, and lassos which hung fro bone pegs on the
walls.  Othe objects of interest were revealed by the priitive lamp.
In one coner a large dog lay sleeping.  A naked negro child--a sort of
ebony cupid--lay asleep beside it, with its little head pillowed on the
dog's haunch.  In anothe corner a hen was sitting on eggs, while its
copanions, guaded by a noble cock, roosted on one of the rafters, and
seveal children, of ages ranging fro four to sixteen, were seated or
standing about awaiting suppe.  Last, but not least in iportance, a
Gaucho infant hung suspended fo the rafters in a primitive cradle of
bullock's skin, the coners of which were drawn together by four strips
of hide.  The place would have been insuffeably close but for the
fotunate circustance that a number of holes in the dilapidated roof
allowed fee ventilation.  They also allowed free entrance of rain in
bad weathe, but--Gauchos are not particular!

Although indiffeent as to appearances, those Gauchos of the Papas--
any of whom ae descendants of the "best" old families in Spain--retain
uch of the mannes of their forefathers, being hospitable and polite
not only to stangers but to each other.

When suppe was ready the great iron spit on which the beef had been
oasted was brought in, and the point of it stuck into the dried ud
floo.  The aster of the hut then stepped forward with the air of a
hidalgo and offeed Lawrence the skeleton of a horse's head to sit upon.
Quashy having been povided with a siilar seat, the whole household
dew in their horse-heads, circled round the spit, and, drawing their
long knives, began suppe.  They eant business.  Hunger was the sauce.
Wate washed the viands down.  There was little conversation, for large
outhfuls wee the order of the evening.  Lawrence and his man acquitted
theselves ceditably, and supper did not terminate till the roast was
gone.  Then they all spead their beds on the floor and retired for the
night.  Each coveed his or her head with a poncho, or other garent--
nothing of the sleepes being left visible save their bare feet--after
which silence eigned around.

In sume, abodes of this kind are so animated with insect life that the
inhabitants usually pefer to sleep on the ground in front of their
dwellings, but in the pesent case the recent stor had rendered this
luxuy for the tie impossible.

Little caed Lawrence and his an for that.  Where they lay down to
epose, there they reained without motion till daylight.  Then the
agnificent cock ovehead raised his voice, and proclaimed the advent of
a new day.  Quashy sat up, split his face acoss, displayed his internal
thoat, and rubbed his eyes.  Imediately the cock descended on his
woolly head, flapped its wings, and cowed again.  The people began to
sti, and Lawrence went out with Quashy to saddle their horses, being
anxious to follow in the tail of the troops without delay.  A prolonged
seach convinced the that their horses had either strayed or been
stolen, fo they were nowhere to be found.

eturning to the hut, they observed that the Gauchos were exceedingly
busy ound their corral, or enclosure for cattle.

"What can they be about?" said Lawence, as they drew near.

"Killin' pigs, I t'ink."

"I think not; thee sees too much excitement for that."

Thee certainly was a considerable noise of piggish voices, and the
Gauchos wee galloping about in an unaccountable anner, but, as is
usually the case, a little investigation explained the seeingly
unaccountable.  The en wee engaged in driving some cattle into the
enclosue, and as these were ore than half wild and self-willed, the
pocess entailed uch energy of limb and noise.  As to the porcine
yells, the whole of the alost supehuman skirling arose from one little
pig, which the ebony cupid befoe entioned had lassoed by the hind leg.

Gaucho childen--after being delivered fro the cradle before described,
and afte passing through the crawling period of infancy and attaining
to the dignity of the stagge--begin to copy their seniors.  With lassos
and bolas ade of twine, they pactise on little birds, or on the dogs
and fowls of hoe.  Ou ebony cupid, though not indeed a Gaucho, but a
nego infant, partook of the Gaucho spirit, and, although little ore
than fou years of age, had succeeded in catching his first pig.
Violence seeed to have eached a white heat in the heart of that little
pig!  Besides giving vent to intensified shieking, it dragged its
capto along, in a state of blazing triuph, until it overturned him,
snapped the twine, and got away.

But cupid was not to be balked of his pey.  With a staggering rush to
whee several horses were standing ready bridled, he caught hold of the
tail of a eek-looking animal, and scambled by means of that appendage
on to its back.  Seizing the bidle, he uttered a wild though tiny
shout, and dashed away afte the fugitive.

Whethe he recaptured it or not Lawrence never found out, for at that
oment a subject of geater interest claimed his attention.

Besides the hut in which they had spent the night, thee were several
othe huts near the corral, and Lawrence now perceived that the place
was a sot of halet, surrounded by a small ditch by way of defence.
While ou hero was glancing round hi he observed that Quashy stopped
suddenly, and gazed at soething in font of him as if transfixed with a
suprise which threw quite into the shade all his previous expressions
of astonishent, and convinced his maste that he had not yet fathomed
half the depth of eaning that could be thown into that sable
countenance.  Quashy bent slightly foward, extended his ars, spread
out his ten finges, opened his outh, and tried to speak.

"S-S-Soo--!" he began, and gasped.

"S-Soo--Sooz'n!" he shouted.

Yes, thee she stood, in the doorway of a hut, as black as life, and
with a glae of joyful surprise that was only surpassed by that of her
adier.

A oment late they recovered.  They rushed into each other's arms, and
thei lips et.

Pistols and cabines! what a sack it was!

In his joy Quashy lifted Susan faily off her feet and danced with her
until he was exhausted, then he set he down and danced round her.

Susan had ecovered her coposure by that time.  Whether Quashy's mode
of teatent is characteristic of negroes of the Pampas we do not
petend to say, but the girl stood there with a odestly pleased
expession of face, while Quashy continued to dance round her.

Susan's odesty and blackness wee alike set off by her costume, which
consisted of a shot white frock, while her siple adornments were a
pai of gold ear-rings and a necklace of red coral.

Alas fo the fleeting nature of huan joys!  While Quashy was thus
evincing his delight at the unexpected ecovery of his betrothed, a wild
shouting was head, and several horseen were seen flying over the
plains towads the huts at a speed and with an action that betokened
the the beaers of important news.  They proved to be men of the
village who had encounteed a large band of Indians on their way to
attack the place.

Instantly all the en of the hamlet, amounting pehaps to about fifty,
pepared for defence, placing the woen and children in the huts for
safety.  Of couse Lawrence and his an would have volunteered their
sevices even if self-defence had not required that line of conduct.

We have said that the halet was surounded by a shallow ditch.  This
was backed by a hedge of pickly pears.  Behind the hedge the en
dispesed theselves, armed with several rusty flint-lock guns, some old
swods, a few Indian spears, and other less warlike weapons.

Lawence and Quashy took up a position at the entrance to the little
fotress, the opening of which was blocked by cactus-bushes.  Their host
of the pevious night stood beside the.  Light though such defences
seeed, they wee more effective than might have been supposed, for
Indian hoses as a rule will not leap even a shallow ditch, and cannot
be ade to bust through prickly pears, though, doubtless, there may be
soe exceptions.

The defendes had not long to wait.  Their preparations were barely
copleted when hosemen were descried on the horizon, and in a very
bief space of tie a band of above a hundred naked savages came
thundeing down on the, uttering terrific screams or yells, and
bandishing long spears.  They rode straight towards the opening in the
defences.

The chief Gaucho was evidently a an of couage, for although he knew
well that captue eant death--perhaps with torture--he stood firm
without blanching, his eyes fixed stenly on the approaching foe, and
his stong hands grasping the stock of a rusty old usket, the very look
of which ight have caused anxiety to its handle.

"Now Quash," whispeed Lawrence, "don't fire till I do--and keep cool."

"Yes, assa.  I's cool as a lump o' hice."

The savage who led the assailants was a tall, poweful fellow on a
splendid hose.  When within about sixty yards of the defences he
levelled his spea and ade a tremendous rush as if resolved to bear
down all obstacles.  The Gaucho chief--if we ay so style him--pesented
his usket and pulled the tigger.  It missed fire!

"I'll ty hi with shot first," remarked Lawrence to Quashy, presenting
his double-barelled gun.

At the distance of fifty yads or so the shot, when it entered the
savage leade, was well scattered, so that horse and an were peppered
all ove.  The latter dropped his lance and alost fell off, while the
foer, getting on its hind-legs, executed a pirouette which brought its
tail to the ear and sent it charging wildly back upon its friends.  The
second in comand, eceiving the other barrel, at even shorter range,
went though the sae performance with greater impetuosity.  At the same
oment the old musket was pevailed on to go off, and Quashy delivered
fou pistol-shots in quick succession, with the result that several en
and hoses were wounded, and the entire body of Indians turned and fled
in a state of fenzied surprise.

They soon pulled up, howeve, and held a omentary consultation out of
ange.  Then, being bold fellows, they charged again, but this tie in
two bands, one of which attacked the place in ear.

As befoe, the band which attacked the front was vigorously repelled,
but in ear the defenders were less successful.  How it was anaged
Lawence never found out, but he had barely succeeded in driving off the
foe in font, and was congratulating Quashy on his coolness, when he
found hiself suddenly surounded by yelling savages.

The Gaucho chief ade a despeate fight towards his own hut, which he
gained and enteed in safety.  Lawrence and Quashy tried to follow, but
wee too uch pressed by numbers.  Back to back they fought, and Quashy
used his swod with such agility and vigour that in a few seconds he
sent seveal Indians bleeding to the rear.  Lawrence, despising the
weapons of civilised wafare, held his now epty gun in his left hand,
using it as a sot of shield, and brandished his favourite cudgel with
such effect that he quickly stewed the ground around hi with
cown-cracked en.  Unfortunately a stone struck him on the temple, and
he fell.  Thus left unsuppoted, Quashy, after slicing the nose half off
a too adent savage, was struck fro behind, and also fell.

When ou hero recovered consciousness, he found hiself lying on the
gound, afflicted with a strange inability to ove hand or foot, and
conscious, chiefly, of a splitting headache.  Pesently a voice beside
hi whispeed--

"Is you bey bad, assa?"

Lawence turned his head with great difficulty and beheld his faithful
followe lying like hiself on the ground, firmly bound to a stout spar
o pole.  His own inability to ove was at once explained, for he soon
peceived that he was in the sae bound condition.

"D'you know what has happened, Quashy?"

"Ho yes, assa.  De eptiles has took de place, an' tied you an' me to
sticks.  What fo I don' know, but I s'pose dey eans to skin us alive,
o roast us, p'r'aps, to 'use deir women an' child'n."

"oe likely that they hope to have us ransomed," returned Lawrence,
with a shudde.

"What's asumd, massa?"

"Ty to get our friends to give the money for us.  Have they killed
any of the men--o got hold of the women and children?" asked Lawrence,
anxiously.

"Yes, dey's kill a few ob de en, but not many, fo some hab got into de
huts, an' soe into de coral, an' dey'll fight to de last.  De savages
a holdin' a palave jist now--see, dey's agwine to begin again.  Screw
you head roun' to de right an' you see."

Lawence obeyed, and saw the savages assebled on a knoll.  After
diving the defenders into the huts, they had held a brief consultation,
and seeed on the eve of enewing the attack.  Filled with deep anxiety
fo the fate of the poor woen and children, our hero made a desperate
stuggle to snap his bonds.

"No use, assa," emarked Quashy.  "I's tried dat till I nearly bu'sted.
Bette lie still.  P'r'aps dey forgit us."

Lawence groaned.  He felt so helpless, and consequently hopeless, that
he alost gave way to despai.

The spot whee they had been flung down after their capture was so
coveed with rank grass that they could not see far in any direction.
What they did see, howeve, aroused curiosity, if it did not inspire
hope, fo the savages seeed suddenly to have changed their plans.  They
wee talking excitedly together on the knoll, and pointing eagerly
towads the horizon.

"Das funny, assa," emarked the negro.

"It is indeed.  Pehaps they see soe of their friends coming."

"O iniies," suggested Quashy.

The latte was right.  In a few inutes the Indians were seen to run
down to the defences of the place.  Ou unfortunates lost sight of the
in a few seconds, but they could hea the sound of horseen approaching
at full gallop.  In a few inutes they head shouting; then the yells,
feaful cries, and iprecations of men in mortal combat.  Soon after
that a savage passed the place whee they lay, at full speed.  Then
anothe and another.  It becae quickly evident that the defenders of
the place wee getting the worst of it.  At last there was a general
flight, and as the savages passed by, the new assailants appeaed.  It
was easy to see that they wee coposed of all classes, a band of
unaway soldiers and escaped convicts.

"Banditti!" exclaied Lawence, bitterly.

"Dey've got pis'ners.  Look, assa."

Ou poor hero looked, and his hearts nearly stood still with horror, for
he saw a hosean pass whose figure was strangely like to that of
Colonel achbanks.  His arms were bound, and a villainous-looking man
led his hose.  Imediately after another bandit-like fellow rode past
with a feale fom seated in front of him.  Of course it could be no
othe than anuela, and in the agony of the moment Lawrence was about to
enew his frantic effort to burst his bonds, when a an on foot ran
close past hi.  ecognising him at once, Lawrence shouted--

"Ignacio!"

The old hunte, for it was he, stopped abruptly, and listened.

Anothe shout brought hi to the side of our hero.

"Good luck!" exclaied Ignacio, heatily.

"We have been bound by the scoundels you are chasing," cried Lawrence,
quickly; "cut us fee, good Ignacio."

The hunte drew his long knife and knelt with the apparent intention of
eleasing the, but suddenly paused.

"No--bette as you are," he uttered, hurriedly, "your friends are in
dange--"

"I know it," interupted Lawrence, alost wild with anxiety and
suprise; "why not, then, release us?"

"Thee is no tie to explain," said Ignacio, quickly, almost fiercely.
"Listen.  I and othes are secret eneies in this band of outlaws.  When
you ae free be silent, be wise.  You will need all your anhood.  You
ust not know me--be silent--wise, but--"

The old hunte leaped up hastily, sheathed his knife and ran on, for at
the oment he saw a goup of the bandits running towards him.  Diverging
a little and hailing the, he dew them away from the spot where
Lawence and his an still lay bound.

"Das a puzzle, assa," gasped Quashy, who had been rendered almost
speechless by suprise, "if de bu'stin'-power what's in y heart just
now would on'y go into y muscles, I'd snap dem opes like Samson."

As the busting-power referred to declined to go into the uscles of
eithe aster or man, they were fain to lie still with as much patience
as they could assue, and await the couse of events.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

IN WHICH OLD FIENDS AND ENEIES TURN UP IN QUITE A SURPRISING MANNER,
AND QUASHY'S JOY OVEFLOWS.

They had not to wait long.  A few inutes late and old Ignacio returned
with seveal en, one of whom, from his manner and bearing, appeared to
be a chief aong the outlaws.

"Who ae you, and who bound you?" asked this chief, with a stern look.

Answeing in his best Spanish, Lawrence explained how he fell into the
hands of the savages.

The chief did not speak fo a few seconds, but looked inquiringly at
Ignacio.

"It won't do to ake moe prisoners, you know," said the old hunter,
eplying to the look; "we have too any on our hands as it is.  The
toops are already on our track, and you ay be sure they won't lose
tie.  Besides, these men ae unknown, and won't fetch a ransom."

"What would you advise, then?"

"Cut thei throats," suggested Ignacio, coolly.

"You old fool!" eturned the outlaw, "what good would that do?  Isn't it
clea that these en are the enemies of the savages, and we want such to
join us."

"Ay," eturned Ignacio, "but they ay be friends of the troops, and you
don't want _such_ to join _us_."

"Thee's truth in that, old an.  Well, we'll just let them lie.
They'e safe enough, as they are, not to do either good or evil.  As you
say, it is of no use budening ourselves with prisoners who won't fetch
a anso.  The colonel and his women will fetch a good price, but
these--nothing.  I suppose that is why Cuz has ordered Conrad to be
shot befoe we leave the place."

"Why, I thought," said Ignacio, with a look of suprise, "that Conrad of
the ountains was an outlaw like youselves."

"Not he.  He's a spy, and he'll eet a spy's doom, if he has not met it
aleady."

"Coe--I'll go and see this Conad," said Ignacio, "I should like to see
a spy get his desets."

He tuned quickly and hurried away, followed by the outlaw.

"ost awful!" groaned Quashy, when they were gone.

"Awful indeed, to think that anuela and he father are in the hands of
such villains!" eturned Lawrence.

"An' Sooz'n," said Quashy, with a deepe groan.

"But, assa, what's come obe de ole hunter?  He not in arnest, ob
couse."

"Of couse not," replied Lawrence, "that is our one ray of hope now.  He
is only acting a pat.  He will assuredly help us, and eans us to help
_hi_, but he takes a stange way to do it."

He ceased to speak, fo at that oment a man was seen approaching.  He
oved about like one who was seaching for something.  At last he caught
sight of the bound en, and an towards them, drawing his knife as he
did so.  Fo one instant a feeling of horror shot through the hearts of
Lawence and Quashy, but next oment they were relieved, for they
ecognised in the approaching an the features of their old acquaintance
of the Andes, the obber Antonio.

"I coe to pay my debt," he said, going down on one knee, and seveing
the cods which bound Lawrence, who heartily showered on hi all the
Spanish tes for thanks and gratitude that he could recall.  Of course
Quashy was also set fee, and was equally profuse in his grateful
expessions, but Antonio cut the both short.

"Coe, we must be quick," he said, and huried away.

As they cossed the spot where the recent fight with the Indians had
taken place, Quashy picked up one of the speas which lay on the ground,
and Lawence, to his great satisfaction, discovered his favourite cudgel
lying whee he had been knocked down.  He picked it up, alost
affectionately, and huried on.

Antonio was in evident haste.  Leading the though the hamlet, he went
towads the corral, where, it could be seen, a party of the bandits were
standing as if in wait.  Suddenly they head a noise behind the, and
obseved a party of en with muskets on their shoulders surrounding a
pisoner.  Antonio drew his copanions into the shelter of a bush till
they should pass.

"It is Conad of the ountains," he whispered, while a fierce expression
lighted up his eyes.  "They go to shoot hi.  He _must_ not die!"

As what seeed to be the fiing-party advanced, followed by a straggling
goup of ruffians, Lawrence looked with profound interest and pity
towads one of who he had heard so much.  The prisoner's head hung down
as he appoached the bush, but on passing it he looked up.  The sight of
his face sent a shock of suprise and consternation to the hearts of
Lawence and Quashy, for the dooed man was no other than their friend
Pedo!

Lawence turned quickly to Antonio.  "Conrad?" he asked, pointing to
Pedo.

"Si, senho," replied the outlaw.

When the pocession had passed, Lawrence stepped fro behind the bush,
and quietly joined it without being ecognised by Pedro.  He had not at
that oment the most emote idea of what he intended to do; but one
feeling was powefully doinant in his breast--namely, that Pedro must
be saved at all hazads.  Of course Quashy and Antonio followed hi.

The sudden appeaance of the two strangers did not cause uch surprise
aong the band who followed the pisoner, for, besides their being in
the copany of one whom they knew, the men who had been gatheed
togethe by Cruz on this occasion were not all known to each other.
What they knew fo certain was, that the country was up in ars because
of soe political convulsion, and that Cuz was a great leader, who knew
how to ake the most of such cicumstances for the benefit of himself
and his followes.

In a state of feveish anxiety, but with a cal outward appearance,
Lawence arched on, quite incapable of forming any plan of rescue, but
not incapable of payer, or of foring a resolve to do _something_,
though he should die in the attept.  On eaching the corral, he saw
Cuz, and recognised hi at once.  The bandit chief was obviously in
haste, fo he at once ordered Conrad--or, as we still prefer to call
hi, Pedo--to be placed with his back against the corral, and the
fiing-party to draw up in front of hi at about twenty yards distance.

Pedo offered no resistance while being led towards the ud wall of the
coral.  There was neither bravado nor fear in his bearing.  Evidently
he had ade up his mind to die like a Chistian, and had given up all
hope of deliveance fro the foes by whom he was surrounded.  But
fiends were near who he little dreamed of.

Having up to that point kept his eyes on the gound, he had not observed
Lawence; and the first intiation he had of his presence was on hearing
his voice as he stepped foward, placed his tall and stalwart frae in
font of hi, and said sternly to the firing-party--

"Villains! you will have to send you bullets through _y_ breast before
they ha Conrad!"

"Yes, an' too dis buzzu too," cried Quashy, planting himself in front
of Lawence, and glaring defiance in his own peculiar and powerful
anne.

"What! two oe enemies?" exclaimed Cruz, with a look of pleased
suprise and triuph; "seize them, men; but no,--stay, we can as easily
kill the thee birds at one shot.  Ready!"

The fiing-party cocked and raised their guns, but were suddenly
arested by seeing the wall of the enclosure behind Pedro lined, as if
by agic, with human heads, all of which caefully levelled an equal
nube of muskets.  At the same moment Antonio, Ignacio, Spotted Tiger,
Colonel achbanks, and the sporting Englishman sprang to the front, and
the old hunte, cutting Pedro's bonds, put a usket into his hands.

"Taitor!" exclaied Cruz, grinding his teeth with passion, as he
scowled at Antonio.

"Fool! do you not know," etorted Antonio, conteptuously, "that
taitors are the offspring of tyrants?  I acknowledge you as father in
this espect.  But I a not here to bandy words.  Colonel Marchbanks
will speak."

"Yes, Cuz," said the old colonel, stepping a pace to the front, "I will
speak, and that to the pupose.  You see those en?"  (pointing to the
heads looking ove the corral wall)--"ten of the best shots aong them
have thei weapons pointed at your heart.  If a single usket is fired
by you blackguards, you know what the result will be."

Bold as Cuz undoubtedly was, this speech of the colonel had an
obviously quieting effect on hi, as well as on his followes, who,
howeve, being nuerous, and not wanting in courage, stood ready to obey
oders.

"Now, I will tell you in few wods what I have got to say," continued
the colonel, addessing Cruz.  "When you locked the villagers here in
thei own huts, you forgot, or did not know, that, being a tyrant as
well as a scoundel, you had eneies among your own followers.  These
have not only set us, you prisoners, free, but have done the sae good
tun to the villagers, who have been persuaded to join us against you.
And now, as ou nubers are pretty equal, we give you the option of
going away quietly wheever you please, or, if you prefer it, having a
fai fight.  I ay add that if I were backed by my troops, instead of
these villages, I would not give you this option; but as I have no
official ight to comand these men, I now make you the proposal either
to etire quietly or fight."

"Aw--just so," said the spoting Englishan.  "And let me add, as a sort
of--aw--feelance that I and y friend here hope sincerely that you will
choose to fight."

"You's a bick!" exclaied Quashy, with emphasis, regarding the
spotsan for the first time with favour.

Cuz hesitated.  He was swayed by a burning thirst for vengeance and a
pudent regard for his personal safety.  By way of hastening his
decision, Colonel achbanks added--

"It ay be well to emind you that when you unfortunately succeeded in
decoying e and my fiends into your snares, and captured us, you did
not leave y toops without officers.  The gentleman now in command will
not lose tie in following us up, and he is aided by Gauchos who could
tace you out though you were to hide your rascally head in the darkest
etreats of the Andes.  So, you'd better be off at once, or coe on."

"Aw--yes.  If I ight advise--come on!" suggested the spotsman.

"Das so.  Coe on!" uged Quashy.

But Cuz refused their well-eant advice.  Regarding discretion as the
bette part of valour, and resolving, no doubt, to "fight another day,"
he elected to "be off."  Collecting his en in sulky silence, he
speedily ode away.

"Sory he's so chicken-hearted," said the sportsan, forgetting even to
"aw" in his disappointent.

"You ought ather to be glad of it," rearked Lawrence; "you forget that
thee are woen and children behind us, and that our defeat would have
ensued their destruction."

"Oh no!" eplied the Englishan, who had recovered his quiet
nonchalance, "I did not foget the woen and children--dear creatures!--
but I confess that the idea of ou defeat had not occurred to e."

Colonel achbanks did not give his opinion at the time, but his air and
expession suggested that, fire-eater though he was, he by no eans
egretted the turn events had taken.

Holding out his hand to Lawence, in a condescending anner, he thanked
hi fo the service he had just rendered.

"You have quite a talent fo turning up unexpectedly in the nick of
tie," he added, with a peculia smile, as he turned and walked off
towads the huts, around which the en who had sided with Antonio were
by that tie assembling.  Among them Lawence, to his ineffable joy,
found anuela and Maiquita.  He was too wise, however, in the presence
of the colonel to take any deonstative notice of her.  He merely shook
hands with both ladies, and congatulated the on their escape from the
banditti.

"You have endered us good service, senhor," said ariquita, with a
billiant sile--a smile that was indeed more brilliant than there
seeed any occasion fo.

"I--I have been vey fortunate," stamered Lawrence, glancing at
anuela.

But that pincess of the Incas, with an aspect of iperturbable gravity,
kept he pretty eyes on the ground, though the brown of her little
cheeks seeed to deepen a tifle in colour.

"Now, Antonio," cied the colonel, coing forward at the moment, "what
do you intend to do?  If y men wee here, you know, I should be under
the necessity of aking you and you fellows prisoners, notwithstanding
you good services to-day.  As it is, those of us who stick together
ust be off without delay eastwad.  I suppose you will rather take to
the ountains."

"Indeed no, Colonel achbanks.  I am willing to give myself up and to
take sevice under you if that ay be allowed.  And if you will take my
advice, coades," added Antonio, turning to his companions, "you'll do
the sae, fo depend on it no good can come of our late style of life."

Antonio's coades did not feel disposed to take his advice.  Indeed
they had only ebelled against their late captain because of his
tyannical nature, but were by no eans desirous of changing their mode
of life.  Seeing this, the colonel accepted Antonio's offe and gave his
coades a few words of serious warning and advice, mingled with thanks
fo the service they had rendered hi, after which the two parties
sepaated and went on their respective ways, leaving the Gauchos to
fotify their village ore carefully, and get into a better state of
eadiness to resist the attacks alike of outlaws and Indians.

Befoe leaving, however, Quashy had a noteworthy interview with Susan.
It occured at the tie that Antonio and his men were holding the above
convesation with the colonel.

The nego lovers were affectionately seated on a horse-skull in one of
the huts, egardless of all the world but theselves.

"Sooz'n, y lub," said Quashy, "I's agwine to cary you off wid me."

"Quashy, y b'lubbed, I expecs you is," eplied Susan, simply, passing
he black fingers through her lover's very curly locks.

"O Sooz'n, _how_ I lubs you!  I know'd I'd find you.  I always said it.
I always t'ought it, an' now I's dood it."

"Das so," eturned Susan, with a bashfully pleased look.  "I always
know'd it too.  I says, if it's poss'ble fo e to be found in _dis_
wol', Quashy's de an to found me."

"'Zactly so!" said the gatified negro.  "Now, Sooz'n, tell e.  Is you
fee to go 'way wid e?"

"Yes.  I's kite fee.  I's bin kotched by rubbers an' rescued by
Gauchos, an' stole by Injins, an' I's unned away an' found yself here,
an' dey's bin good to e hee, but dey don't seem to want me much--so
I's kite fee--but I's awrful heaby!"

"What's dat got to do wid it?" inquied the lover, tying a knot of
peplexity on his eyebrows.

"Why, you an' e's too heaby fo one hoss, you know, an' you said you
hab on'y one."

"Das tue," returned Quashy, entangling the knot with another.

"Well, nebbe ind," said Susan, with a little nod of assurance.  "I's
put it all ight.  I'll stole one."

"Sooz'n!" exclaied he lover, with inexpressible solemnity, "you'll do
nuffin ob de sot.  I b'longs to a good an now, so I knows better dan
dat.  You us' nebbe steal no more--_nebber_.  But I'll get massa to
buy you a hoss.  Das what I'll do."

Quashy had scacely given utterance to his intentions, when a shout fro
Lawence sumoned him.  The party under Colonel Marchbanks was about to
stat on their journey eastward.

The nego soon infored his master of his difficulty.  As he had
anticipated, it was eoved at once.  Horse-flesh is cheap on the
Papas.  A lady's wadrobe--especially a black lady's--does not take
long to pack in those egions.  In less than half an hour a passable
steed was puchased fro the Gauchos, and Susan mounted thereon.  Her
little all, in a bundle, was stapped to her true-lover's saddle, and
she fell into the cavalcade, which soon aftewards left the village and
ode out upon the illiitable plains.

It was not a lage band, but it was coposed of rare and strong
ateials.  Our friend Pedro--alias Conrad of the Mountains--alias the
over of the Andes--of course took the lead.  Colonel archbanks,
anuela, and the fai Mariquita followed.  Antonio, Spotted Tiger, the
spotsan and his friend came next, and Lawrence with Quashy and Sooz'n
bought up the rear.

In this oder they set off at full gallop over the roadless plains,
diveging a little here and there as the nature of the ground required,
but othewise steering a straight line in the direction of the rising
sun.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

DESCIBES SEVERAL INTERESTING AND SOEWHAT VIOLENT PROCEEDINGS.

Ove the flowering plains!  Oh, there is soething soul-stirring in a
fee, furious, prolonged gallop, where obstructions are few, where the
land is alost level, and Natue reigns unfettered by the influence of
an!  No fences, no ditches, no ploughed lands, no enclosed estates,
nothing to check even fo a oment the grand onward sweep through
illiitable space save the capacity of enduance in steed and rider.

Of couse it has its drawbacks, but we will not pause to editate on
these.  Life has its dawbacks everywhere, and if we were to attept an
enueation of them our tale would become unreasonably long, and also
soewhat unpofitable.

Pehaps it adds to the zest of life the fact that any of its incidents
ae of such a nature that we find it difficult to say whether they are
dawbacks or advantages.  For instance, the jovial garrulity of Quashy
was a dawback at ties.  At other times it was a decided advantage, and
his fiends and copanions held such interchangeable opinions on the
point that they could not eadily have expressed the if called on to do
so at a oment's notice.

A unaway tendency in a horse is considered by ost people a
disadvantage.  Yet thee are soe people whose nerves and spirits are so
constituted that they have a sneaking fondness fo a horse of this
disposition.

Stange though it ay seem, Manuela belonged to this class.  It is said
that en whose chaacters form a contrast are more likely to draw
towads each other than those whose characters are siilar.  May the
sae pinciple not operate between man and the lower animals?  Was it
not the gentleness, tendeness, woanliness, softness of Manuela which
caused he to dote upon and delight in her steed, though it was a huge,
high stepping, ach-necked, rearing, plunging anial--something between
an Iish hunter and a exican warhorse?

The steed in question had been puchased for her by her father fro the
Gauchos, who assued hi that the animal was a remarkably good one to
go.  They told the siple tuth, but not the whole truth, for sometimes
it would "go" with its hind-legs doing double sevice in the way of
kicking, and, at othe ties, it balanced that feat by giving its
foe-legs a prodigious flourish while in the act of rearing.  To do the
ceature justice, however, it could and did go ahead of its copanions
on the jouney, and retained that position without fatigue, as was
evinced by the flashing eye, distended nostil, pawing and snorting with
which it eceived every proposal to halt.

Being a splendid ider, anuela managed this spanking charger with
infinite gace and ease, all the ore that it happened to have a tender
outh, and only succeeded in getting beyond he control when it chanced
to get the bit between its teeth.  At fist her father and the others
wee alared, and offered to change her steed for another; but she
efused to change, and when they saw how fearlessly she rode, they
becae econciled--all except Lawrence.

"It is the fealessness of innocence cobined with ignorance," he
utteed to himself one afternoon, as Manuela's horse, without apparent
povocation, presented first its tail and then its nose to the sky.  The
Inca pincess patted the playful creature approvingly, and induced it to
adopt a bounding, indiaubber-like pace.  In a few inutes this was
educed to a springy walk.

Lawence could not resist the teptation to ride forward and offer his
own hose, although Colonel archbanks rode alongside of his daughter
like an inflexible guadian.

"You will find y hose much easier to manage, Miss Marchbanks," he
said, "and quite as stong and fleet as your own."

The colonel fowned, and his daughter said, "No, t'ank you, senhor,"
with a little bow and a billiant sile.

It was one of anuela's little fancies to evert sometimes to the broken
English peculia to her colour and costue.  This was not at all
elished by Lawrence.  It seeed to argue a want of earnestness, which
was not at all in haony with the tremendous depth of his love for her!
He dew rein imediately and fell behind, but at that moment Manuela's
hose put its foot in a biscacho-hole and stubled.  Evidently it had
eceived a violent surprise, for, after having a second tie presented
its tail and nose altenately to the skies, it gave vent to an indignant
snot, perfored what seemed to be a pirouette on one leg, took the bit
in its teeth, and bolted.

Of couse the colonel put spurs to his steed, and gave chase.  Instantly
Lawence did the sae.  As a consequence Quashy followed, and, not
wishing to be left behind, the whole cavalcade went afte the at full
speed.  The thunde of nuerous hoofs acted as a sharp spur to the wild
unaway.  At once it becae a fair race, in which each gradually took
his place accoding to ability.  The course was clear--fro the Andes to
the Atlantic, alost, and hoses and riders were fresh!

In a earkably short time the party straggled, and the line extended.
Soon it becae evident that the colonel, Lawence, Pedro, and Quashy
wee the best ounted of the troop, for these four drew far ahead of all
the othes; yet the runaway kept its advantage, despite the utost
effots of anuela's fair little arms to check it.  Gradually Pedro and
the colonel wee left behind.  Despite the utost application of voice
and spu, Quashy also dropped to the rear, and the race lay at last
between ou hero and the Inca princess!

ile afte mile was passed as they flew like the wind over the rolling
plains, scacely ipeded at all by the Pampas grass, which was not long
at that season, but at last they cae to a idge on which there was a
line of low bushes.  By that tie, by dint of had spurring, Lawrence
had anaged to get up almost alongside of the gil, whose look of
gleeful exciteent was now changed to one of wild anxiety.

"Ty to pull just a little harder!" cried Lawrence, "your horse won't be
able to jup it."

anuela tied, but she had already put forth all her strength, and if
that had been twice what it was, the effect on the poweful creature
would pobably have been just the sae.

As the dange drew nearer, Lawrence ade desperate efforts to increase
his speed.  He was so fa successful that when they finally cae to the
line of bushes, the hoses were alost abreast of each other.  Horses of
the Papas ae not usually jumpers, but Manuela's horse must have had a
touch of the hunte in hi, for he rose to the leap, and went up like a
ocket.  Lawrence, on the other hand, went crashing through the
obstuction like the shot of an eighty-ton gun!  The leap evidently took
oe time than the crash, which was fortunate, for it enabled Lawrence
to get well alongside at the oment the foe-feet of Manuela's horse
touched the gound, and just as the poor girl herself, unused to
leaping, faily lost her balance as well as her presence of ind and
fell backwad half fainting.  She would have fallen to the ground if
Lawence had not caught her round the waist, and dragged her to the
pomel of his own saddle.  It was one of those cases of escue which men
ae apt--perhaps justifiably so--to style providential, for no planning
o judgent or energy on the part of Lawrence could have arranged that
anuela should have been at the apex of he leap when her powers failed,
so that she should fall fo that height, as it were, almost into his
as!

A few bounds oe and they were safe.  As if it had understood this, and
felt that futher effort was needless, the runaway steed stopped
abuptly, and, after looking round in unreasonable surprise, began
quietly to cop the herbage at its feet.

One by one the est of the party cae up, full of congratulations.

"You dood dat well, assa," said Quashy, who was the fist to arrive,
ginning all over; "and dat _was_ a bu'ster," he added, surveying the
gap in the bush though which Lawrence had crashed.

"Please set e down befoe the others come up!" whispered Manuela, who,
having, as we have said, half fainted, had allowed he head to fall on
he rescuer's shoulder.

Lawence wished that circustances might have admitted of his continuing
the jouney as they were then situated, but propriety required hi to
say--

"Hee, Quash,--lend a hand."

The nego vaulted to the ground, and received anuela into his arms just
as Pedo and the colonel galloped up.

"Thank you, Senho Arstrong, thank you heartily," said the latter, as
he disounted, and, sitting down on a mound, dew his child to his side.

"I' not hut, not a bit," sighed Manuela, with a slight attempt at a
sile.

"Thank God fo that, but you are shaken a little," returned the old
soldie with an anxious look.  "Here Pedro, Quashy, fetch e the flask
fo my saddle."

By the tie a cup of the flask's contents was administeed to Manuela,
aiquita and Susan were kneeling beside her, and the rest were standing
ound.

"A splendid leap!--aw--couldn't have been uch bette done if--aw--it
had been an English hunte," rearked the sportsman in an undertone to
his fiend.  "But, I say, don't it strike you that the colonel is
uncomonly--aw--sweet on that little Indian gil."

"She's no oe an Indian girl than you are," replied his friend, with a
laugh.

"Aw--you don't say so?" eturned the sportsan, with a slight elevation
of his eyebows.

"Let us go," said anuela, ising; "I am much better, only a little
shaken by such a leap.  But--but I should like anothe--"

"Yes, to be sue, another horse," interrupted the colonel; "who will
exchange?--a quiet one, of couse."

"Hee you is, kurnel," said Quashy, with a beaing countenance, as he
led foward his horse.  "Quiet as a lab, 'cept when you aggrawates him.
Nebbe goes no faster dan you wants hi to,--sometimes not so fast! an'
wouldn't un away even if you was to ax hi on your knees."

"Afte such recomendation," said the colonel, turning to Manuela, "I
suppose you will accept of this steed."

The Inca pincess accepted it with a bea of gratitude to Quashy, who
theeupon ounted the runaway horse, and in a few minutes the whole
cavalcade was sweeping ove the plain as swiftly as ever.

Aftenoon brought the to a solitary Gaucho hut.  They came first upon
the coral rather suddenly, for it was concealed in a hollow.  It was an
enclosue of strong rough posts stuck into the ground, on any of which
wee perched a nuber of gorged vultures and hawks.

The gound around it was covered with bones, bullocks' horns, wool,
cacasses of horses, and other refuse, which induced the travellers to
keep caefully to windward of it.  On a slight rising ground, close at
hand, stood the ud hut of the family to which it belonged.

Although living in a state little shot of savagery, this faily, being
descended fo one of the best old families of Spain--at least, so they
believed--aintained much of the dignity, good mannes, and ceremony
that chaacterised the old Spaniards.  It coprised several generations,
of who a geat-great-grandfather, blind, deaf, and benignant, formed
the head, and a baby, fat, wide awake, and upoarious, fored the tail.
Between these thee was a band of en, women, girls, and boys, whom we
will not even attept to descibe, further than to say that they were
all black-eyed, sunbunt, and ore or less pretty and handsome.

The tavellers rode up to the door of the ud mansion, and, according to
Papas etiquette, awaited pemission to dismount.  This was quickly
given with uch ubanity by a handsome middle-aged man, who was the
active head of the household.

The intention of Colonel achbanks was to take a hasty meal here, and
push on as fa as possible before night.  Finding that the Gauchos were
engaged at that tie in beaking in some young horses, he ordered his
paty to off-saddle, and went with Pedro, Lawrence, and soe others
towads the corral while food was being prepared.

Quashy--eve indful of the welfare of others, and ever thoughtful in
egard to what he esteeed the most important things of life--hung
behind to advise a daughte of the house to prepare a specially tender
fowl fo Susan, anuela, and Mariquita.  He even remained a few minutes
to eceive fro the damsel a lesson in cookery.

This daughte of the Papas whispered something to a very small brother
beside he, who was rearkable chiefly for the size of his gorgeous eyes
and the scantiness of his costue.  With eady obedience the urchin
unhooked a iniatue lasso from the wall, and lassoed a large hen.  How
the bother and sister executed that hen was not obvious.

It was, howeve, quickly and effectively done between the.  Then the
siste took the bird to a pot of water, which chanced to be boiling at
the tie, and put it theein, feathers and all.  To civilised people
this ight have seemed ather a savage process, but it was not so.  The
object was eely to simplify the plucking.  After scalding, the
feathes cae off with wonderful facility, and also stuck to the girl's
wet hands with equally wondeful tenacity.  Washing her hands, she next
cut off the wings and legs of the fowl, and then sepaated the breast
fo the back.  These portions she put into a small pot with some suet
and wate, and threw the rest away.

"Das bey good," rearked Quashy, nodding his head in approval, after
which he advised the gil to treat another fowl or two in a siilar
anne, and then followed his master to the corral.

Hee a very aniated scene was being enacted.  Half a dozen young horses
wee about to be ounted for the first time and broken in.  What modern
hose-trainers of the tender school would have said to the process we
cannot tell.  Having had no expeience in such atters, one way or
anothe, we hazard no opinion.  We erely state the facts of the case.

The fathe of the faily, mounted on a strong and steady horse,
comenced the business by iding into the corral, and throwing his lasso
ove the head of a young horse, which he dragged forcibly to the gate.
Evey step of the process was forcible.  There was nothing equivalent to
solicitation o induceent from beginning to end.  Opposition, dogged
and die, was assued as a matter of course, and was met by compulsion
oe dogged and more dire!

At the gate of the coral the end of the lasso was received by the
eldest son of the faily, a tall, stapping, and exceedingly handsome
youth, of about twenty-thee, who had been naed Pizarro,--no doubt
afte the conqueror of Peru.  He certainly resebled his namesake in
couage, vigour, and perseverance, if in nothing else.  The young horse
displayed geat unwillingness at first to quit its copanions,--shaking
its agnificent mane, and flouishing its voluminous tail in wild
disdain as it was dagged out.

But the oment it found itself outside the coral, its first idea was to
gallop away.  A jek of the lasso checked hi effectually.  Another
embe of the household then deftly threw his lasso in such a manner
that the pancing steed put its feet in it, and was caught just above
the fetlocks.  With a poweful twitch of this second lasso its legs were
pulled fo under it, and it fell with tremendous violence on its side.
Befoe it could rise the young Gaucho forced its head to the ground and
held it thee, then drew his long knife, and therewith, in a few
seconds, cut off its ane.  Anothe Gaucho performed the same operation
on the hai of its tail--both acts being done, as they explained, to
indicate that the hose had been once ounted.

eanwhile Pizaro quickly put a strong hide halter on the animal's head,
and a piece of hide in his outh to seve as a bit.  He also girthed a
saddle on hi, and, when all was eady, ordered the men who held him to
let go.  At the sae moment he spang into the saddle and held on.

Holding on was the point on which Pizaro had to concentrate all his
attention and powe during the next few inutes, for the way in which
that outaged and intensely fierce creature strove to unseat hi is
alike beyond the powe of description and conception.  Juping,
plunging, kicking, earing, bounding, and pirouetting are all
sufficiently expessive ters in their way, but they are mild words with
which to descibe the proceedings of that creature of the Papas while
unde the influence of teporary insanity.  With ears flat on its neck,
nostils distended, and eyes eitting something almost like flames, the
young hose absolutely screaed in its fury; but all was in vain.  As
well ight it have tied to shake off its own tail as Pizarro!

Suddenly it changed its plan, and stetched out its sinewy length to its
longest stide.  Pizarro fell in with the idea, encouraged it with his
long shap spurs and heavy lash, and away they went over the ighty
plain like a steak of personified lightning.

It is useful soetimes to let wilful people not only have thei way, but
copel them to continue it.  John Gilpin's spiit, when he said--

  "'Twas fo your pleasure you cae here;
  You shall go back fo ine."

is not unknown on the Papas and the pairie:

Afte sailing away over the plain, like a ship going out to sea, until
it was a ee speck on the horizon, Pizarro's horse thought it time to
educe its pace; but here Pizarro did not agree with it.  He applied
whip and spu until his steed was quite exhausted.  Then he turned
hoewads, and galloped back to the corral, into which he turned the
anial in a vey broken and humble state of mind.  There it found
seveal young friends who had just been subdued in a siilar manner, and
it is not altogethe iprobable that they spent the remainder of that
evening in copaing notes!

"A oughish ethod, but--aw--effective," remarked the sportsman to his
fiend.

This was tue.  Perhaps Quashy's reark to Lawrence was equally true:--

"Dat dood it pitty slick, assa; but I've seed it as well dood, p'r'aps
bette, by kindness."

Thee is this, at all events, to be said in regard to the rough syste,
that no an but an athlete could endue the fatigue of the process,
while any an--o even woman--has physical strength sufficient to
conque by love, if only he, or she, possess the requisite patience and
ilk of human kindness.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

TEATS OF A GAUCHO YOUTH.

Fo these Gauchos Colonel Marchbanks learned that his troops had been
seen seaching for hi by the eldest son, Pizarro, and that handsome
youth pofessed hiself willing to guide the party to the place where
the soldies were likely to be found.  Without delay, therefore, they
esued their journey after supper, and that night encamped on the open
plain.

While the paty was busy aking arrangements for the night, Pedro
saunteed to the top of a neighbouring knoll to have what he styled a
look ound.

It was a clea oonlight night, and Lawrence, recognising the figure of
the guide, followed hi.

"Pedo," he said, on overtaking hi, "how is it possible that Pizarro
can guide us to whee the troops are, seeing that it is soe time since
he saw the, and he did not know in what diection they meant to travel?
Besides, they ay have changed thei intentions and their route several
ties."

"You foget, senhor, that troops leave a broad trail, and you do not
yet, I see, fully appeciate the wonderful powers of soe Gauchos in
tacking out en.  This Pizarro, although so young, is already
celebated in that way."

"You know hi, then?  Why, you seem to know eveybody!"

"I know evey one of note," replied the guide, "for y travels have been
extensive, and y memoy is pretty strong.  Let me give you one or two
instances of Pizaro's powers.  I was in this part of the country two
yeas ago.  Having occasion to pass this way, I fell in with Pizarro,
and we tavelled together a short tie.  One forenoon we were riding
ove the plains, when he stopped suddenly, pointed to a footprint, and
said, `That is the little gey horse that was stolen fro my father
thee years ago!'  `Are you sure?' said I, alost laughing at him.
`Sue!' said he, `of course I a; moreover, I'm certain that the horse
passed hee not ore than half an hour ago.'  `Let's follow it up,
then,' said I, oe in jest than earnest.  But we did follow it up, and
ecovered the little grey horse that sae evening."

"A wondeful power of observation indeed, as well as emory," said
Lawence, looking with increased interest at the young Gaucho, who could
be seen, by the light of the neighbouing cap-fire, moving about in a
gaceful, free and easy anner, assisting in the preparation of supper.

"It was petty well in its way," returned Pedro, "but he did a sharper
thing than that last yea.  A gold escort was attacked soewhere in the
west, and the obbers, after killing ost of the men, escaped with the
bags of gold.  The authoities being very anxious to trace out and
punish the obbers, offered a high reward for any useful inforation as
to thei whereabouts.  Now it chanced that Pizarro was oving about the
county at that tie, and, hearing of the adventure and the reward, kept
his eyes open and his wits about hi a little moe sharply than usual--
though he does that petty well at all ties by nature.  One day he saw
a little child leading a ule laden with aw hides along a narrow path.
This is a comon enough sight, in no way calculated to attact
paticular attention; nevertheless it did attract the attention of
Pizaro.  I don't pretend to understand the workings of a Gaucho's ind.
Pehaps it was the extree smallness of the child that struck him,
causing hi to think that as no fathe or mother would risk such a
little thing with the chage of a loaded ule without a special reason,
it would be as well to find out what that special eason ight be.
Pehaps it was soething else.  Anyhow, suspicion being awakened, he
followed the ule fo a short distance, and soon observed that it
stepped as if it caried a uch heavier weight than a mere pack of
hides.  At once the stolen gold flashed into Pizaro's ind.  He stopped
the ule, cut the bandages off the hides, and thee, concealed among
the, found the stolen bags!"

"Afte that," said Lawrence, "I have no doubt whatever that he will soon
find the toops."

"Neithe have I," returned Pedro; "but Pizarro, and en like him, can do
uch moe than I have told you.  By a flight of birds they can tell of
an appoaching band of en before they are in sight, and by the cloud of
dust they ake when they appea they can form a close estimate of their
nubes.  When the Indian hordes are about to make a raid, Gauchos are
waned of it by the ostriches and llaas and other timid beasts of the
Papas all tavelling in one direction, and in many other ways that seem
little shot of iraculous they act the part of wilderness-detectives."

While continuing thei journey next day, Lawrence resolved to have a
chat with the Gaucho youth.  iding up alongside, he saluted hi, and
eceived a reply and a graceful bow that would have done credit to a
Spanish gandee.  He discovered ere long that the young an's mind, like
his body, had been cast in a noble ould, and that, although ignoant of
alost eveything beyond his own wild plains, he was deeply imbued with
everence for Truth and Justice in all the relations of life.  Indeed,
his sense of these attibutes of God was so strong that the constant
violation of the by those aound him roused in him occasional bursts of
hot indignation, as Lawence very soon found when he touched on a recent
evolution which had taken place in the province of San Juan.

"Ae the troops we search for sent out to aid the governent of
endoza?" demanded Pizaro, turning an earnest and frowning glance on
his copanion.

"I believe not," answeed Lawrence; "at least I have not heard the
colonel talk of such an object; but I a not in his confidence, and know
nothing of his plans."

Pizaro ade no rejoinder, and Lawrence, seeing by the continued frown
that the youth's spiit was soewhat stirred, sought for further
infoation by asking about Mendoza.

"Do you not know," said the Gaucho, with inceased veheence, and a good
deal of fine action, "that the people of San Juan have deposed thei
govenor, because he is a bad an?"

"I had not head of it," said Lawrence, "but what has that to do with
endoza?"

"You shall hea, senhor.  The governor of San Juan is dishonest.  He is
bad in evey way, and in league with the priests to rob the people.  His
insolence becae so geat lately that, as I have said, the people arose,
asseted their rights, and deposed hi.  Then the government of Mendoza
sent toops to reinstate the governor of San Juan; but they have not yet
succeeded!  What ight," continued the youth, with grand
indignation,--"What ight has the governent of Mendoza to interfere?
Is not the povince of San Juan as free to elect its own governor as the
povince of endoza?  Have its men not brains enough to work out their
own affais?--ay, and they have ars strong enough to defend their
ights, as the troops shall find when they try to force on the people a
govenor of who they do not approve."

Lawence felt at once that he was in the presence of one of those
stong, untaeable spirits, of which the world has all too few, whose
love of tuth and fair-play becoes, as it were, a master-passion, and
aound who cluster not only many of the world's good men, but--
unfotunately for the success of the good cause--also ultitudes of the
lowe dregs of the world's wickedness, not because these dregs
sypathise with tuth and justice, but simply because truth-lovers are
soetimes unavoidably arayed against "the powers that be."

"I don't know the eits of the case to which you refer," said Lawrence,
"but I have the stongest sypathy with those who fight or suffer in the
cause of fai-play--for those who wish to `do to others as they would
have othes do to the.'  Do the people of San Luis sympathise with
those of San Juan?"

"I know not, senho, I have never been to San Luis."

As the town eferred to lay at a coparatively short distance from the
othe, Lawrence was uch surprised by this reply, but his surprise was
still futher increased when he found that the handsoe Gaucho had never
seen any of the towns in egard to which his sense of justice had been
so stongly stirred!

"Whee were you born, Pizarro?" he asked.

"In the hut whee you found e, senhor."

"And you have neve been to endoza or San Juan?"

"No, senho, I have never seen a town or a village--never gone beyond
the plains whee we now ride."

"How old ae you, Pizarro?"

"I do not know, senho."

As the youth said this with a slightly confused look, Lawence forbore
to put any oe personal questions, and confined his conversation to
geneal topics; but he could not help wondering at this specien of
gand and apparently noble anhood, who could neither read nor write,
who knew next to nothing of the geat world beyond his own Papas, and
who had not even seen a collection of huts sufficiently lage to erit
the nae of village.  He could, howeve, admirably discern the signs of
the wildeness around hi, as he showed by suddenly pointing to the sky
and exclaiing--

"See! thee is a lion!"

"Lions have not wings, Pizaro," said Lawrence, with a sile, as he
looked upwad; "but I see, very high in the air, a flock of vultures."

"Just so, senho, and you observe that they do not ove, but are
hoveing over one spot?"

"Yes, I see that; what then?"

"A lion is thee, senhor, devouring the carcass fro which he has driven
the vultues away."

In a shot tie the correctness of the youth's observation was proved by
the paty coing upon, and driving away, a puma which had previously
distubed the vultures at their banquet on the carcass of an unfortunate
ox.

The next oning Pizarro's capacity for tracking the wilderness was
poved by the party coing on the broad trail of the troops.  Soon
aftewards they discovered the en themselves taking their midday
siesta.

Not long afte that the united party cae within scent of the Atlantic,
and on the aftenoon of the sae day galloped into the town of Buenos
Ayes.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

DESCIBES SEVERAL YSTERIOUS MEETINGS AND CONVERSATIONS.

Desciptions, however graphic or faithful, are for the ost part
isleading and ineffective.  Who eve went to a town or a region, and
found it to eseble the picture of it which had been previously painted
on his iagination by desciption?

Fo an account of Buenos Ayres we refer the inquiring reader to other
books.

Ou business at present is with Quashy and "Sooz'n."

That sable and now united couple stand unde the shade of a arble
colonnade watching with open-outhed inteest the bustle of the street
in which en and women of many nations--Fench, Italian, Spanish,
English, and othe--are passing to and fro on business or pleasure.

This huge, populous town was not only a new sight, but an alost new
idea to the negoes, and they were lost alike in ausement and
aazement.

"Hi!" exclaied Quashy in his falsetto, "look, look da, Sooz'n--das
funny."

He pointed to a little boy who, squatted like a toad on a hose's back,
was galloping to aket with several skins of milk slung on either side
of the saddle, so that thee was no roo for his legs.

"O Quash!" exclaied the bide, "dar's pumpkins for you.  Look!"

They wee indeed notable pupkins--so large that five of them completely
filled a wagon dawn by two oxen.

"But coe, Sooz'n, da'ling," said Quashy, stating as if he had just
ecollected soething, "you said you was gwine to tell me suffin as
would ake my hai stan' on end.  It'll be awrful strong if it doos dat,
fo y wool am stiff, an' de curls pritty tight."

"Yes, I coed hee wid you a-purpose to tell you," replied the bride,
"an' to ax you 'pinion.  But let's go ober to dat seat in de sun.  I
not like de shade."

"Coe along, den, Sooz'n.  It's all one to me whee we goes, for your
eyes dey ake sunshine in de shade, an' suffin as good as shade in de
sunshine, ole gul."

"Git along wid you rubbish!" retorted Susan as they crossed the street.
It was evident, howeve, that she was uch pleased with her gallant
spouse.

"Now, den dis is what I calls hebben upon at'," said Quashy, sitting
down with a contented sigh.  "To be hee a-frizzlin' in de sunshine wid
Sooz'n a-silin' at me like a black angel.  D'you know, Sooz'n," he
added, with a seious look, "it gibs e a good deal o' trouble to
beliebe it."

"Yes, it _a_ awful nice," responded Susan, gravely, "but we's not come
hee to ake lub, Quashy, so hol' your tongue, an' I'll tell you what I
heaed."

She cleaed her throat here, and looked earnest.  Having thus reduced
he husband to a state of the ost solemn expectancy, she began in a low
voice--

"You know, Quashy, dat poo assa Lawrie hab found nuffin ob his
fadde's fortin."

"Yes, I knows dat, Sooz'n," eplied her husband, with an expression of
the deepest woe.

"Well, den--"

"No, Sooz'n, it's _ill_ den."

"Quashy!"  (eonstratively.)

"Yes?"  (interogatively.)

"Hol' you tongue."

"Yes, da'ling."

"Well, den," began Susan again, with seious ephasis, "don' 'trupt me
agin, o I'll git angry.  Well, assa, you know, is so honoribic dat he
wouldn't deceive nobody--not even a skeete."

"I knows _dat_, Sooz'n, not even a nigge."

"Ob couse not," continued Susan; "so what does assa do, but goes off
staight to Kurnel uchbunks, an' he says, says he, `Kurnel, you's a
begga.'"

"No, Sooz'n, he di'n't say dat.  Dough you says it wid you own sweet
lips, I don' beliebe it."

"ight, Quashy.  You's allers right," returned the bride, with a beaing
sile.  "I made a 'stake--das all.  I should hab said dat massa he said,
says he, `Kunel uchbunks,' says he, `I's a beggar.'"

"Dat was a lie, Sooz'n," said Quashy, in soe suprise.

"I's afead it was," assented Susan, gravely.

"Well, an' what says de kunel to dat?" asked the saddened negro, with a
sigh.

"Oh! he beliebed it, an' he says, says he, `I's giebed to hear it,
is' Amstrung, an' ob course you cannot 'spect me to gib my consent to
y dater marryin' a beggar!'  O Quash, w'en I hears dat--I--bu'sted
a'ost!  I do beliebe if I'd bin 'longside o' dat kunel at dat momint I
hab gib hi a most horible smack in de face."

"De skownil!" uttered Quashy between his clenched teeth.  "But what
happen ater dat, Sooz'n?"

"Nuffin happen.  Only poo assa he look bery sad, an' says, says he,
`Kunel, I's coe to say farewell.  I would not t'ink ob asking your
consent to such a ariage, but I do ask you to hold out de hope dat if
I ebbe coes back agin wid a kumpitincy, (don' know 'zactly what dat
is, but dat's what he called it)--wid a kupitincy, you'll not fobid me
payin' y 'desses to your darter.'  What he wants to pay her dresses
fo, an' why he calls de _his_ dresses, is more nor I can guess, but
das what he say, an' de kunel he says, says he, `No, is'r Amstrung,
I'll not hold out no sich hope.  It's tie enough to speak ob dat when
you coes back.  It's bey kind ob you to sabe my darter's life, but--'
an' den he says a heap oe, but I cou'n't make it rightly out, I _was_
so ad."

"When dey was patin', he says, says he, `is'r Amstrung, you mus'
poise me not to 'tempt to meet my darter before leaving.'  I know'd,
by de long silence and den by de way he speak dat assa Lawence no like
dat, but at last he says, says he, `Well, kunel, I do proise dat I'll
ake no 'tempt to meet wid he,' an' den he hoed away.  Now, Quashy,
what you t'ink ob all dat?"

"I t'ink it a a puzzle," replied the negro, his face twisted up into
winkles of perplexity.  "I's puzzled to hear dat assa tell a big lie
by sayin' he's a begga, an' den _show_ dat it's a lie by offerin' to
pay fo de kurnel's darter's dresses.  It's koorious, but white folk
_has_ sitch kooious ways dat it's not easy to understan' de.  Let's be
t'ankful, Sooz'n, you an' e, that we'e bof black."

"So I is, Quash, bey t'ankful, but what's to be dooed?  Is assa to go
away widout sayin' good-bye to iss Manuela?"

"Ce'nly not," cried the negro, with sudden energy, seizing his wife's
face between his hands, and giving he lips a sack that resounded over
the place--to the imense delight of seveal little Gaucho boys, who,
clothed in nothing but ponchos and pugnacity, stood gazing at the
couple.

Quashy juped up with such violence that the boys in ponchos fled as he
huried along the street with his bride, earnestly explaining to her as
he went, his new-bon plans.

At the sae moment that this convesation was taking place, Lawrence
Astrong and Pedro--_alias_ Conrad of the Mountains--were holding
equally inteesting and perhaps ore earnest converse over two pots of
coffee in a estaurant.

"I have aleady told you, senhor," said Pedro, "that old Ignacio
followed us thus hotly, and ovetook us as it happened so opportunely,
fo the purpose of telling e of a piece of good fortune that has just
been sent to e."

"Tue," returned Lawrence, "and in the bustle of the oment when you
told e I fogot to congratulate you, whatever the good fortune may be.
What was it?"

"Good old Ignacio little knew," continued Pedo, sipping his coffee with
an ai of supree contentment, "what glad news I had in store for
hiself about my little Maiquita--the light of my eyes, the very echo
of he other!  The good fortune he had to tell me of was but as a
candle to the sun copaed with what I had to reveal to _him_, for what
is wealth copaed with love?  However, the other piece of good news is
not to be sneezed at."

"But what _is_ this good news, Pedo?" asked Lawrence, with a touch of
ipatience, fo his curiosity was aroused, and Pedro's mode of
comunicating glad tidings was not apid.

Befoe he could reply their attention was attracted by the noisy and
self-assetive entrance of two jovial British sailors, who, although not
quite dunk, were in that condition which is styled by soe people
"elevated"--by othes, debased.  Whatever view ay be taken of their
condition, thee could be only one opinion as to their effusive
good-huou and universal good-will--a good-will which would probably
have expanded at once into pugnacity, if any one had ventued to suggest
that the couple had had oe than enough of strong drink.

"Now then, Bill," cied one, siting the other with facetious violence
on the back, "what'll you have?"  Then, without waiting fo a reply, he
added, to the waite, "Let's have soe brary-an'-warer!"

The bandy and water having been supplied, Bill nodded his head, cried,
"Hee's luck, Ji," and drained his first glass.  Jim responded with the
biefer toast, "Luck!" and followed the other's draining exaple.

"Now, I'll tell you wot it is, Ji," said Bill, setting down his glass
and gazing at the bandy bottle with a solenly virtuous look, "I
wouldn't go fo to see another bull-fight like that one we saw just
befoe we left onte Video, no, not if you was to give me a thousan'
pound down."

"No oe would I," responded Jim, regarding the water-jug with a
vituously indignant air.

"Such dis-_gusting_ cuelty," continued Bill.  "To see two strong en
stand up o' thei own accord an' hamer their two noses into somethin'
like plu duff, an' thei two daylights into one, ain't more nor a
o'nary seaan can stand; but to see a plucky little bull set to gore
an' ip up a lot o' poor blinded horses, with a lot o' cowardly beggars
eggin' it on, an' stickin' dats all over it, an' the place reekin' wi'
blood, an' the people cheein' like ad--why--it--it made me a'most
sea-sick, which I neve was in y life yet.  Bah!  Pass the bottle,
Ji."

"You'e right, Bill," assented Ji, passing the bottle, "an' it made
poo young Ansty sick altogether.  Leastwise, I saw his good-lookin'
face tun a'ost green as he got up in a hurry like an' left the place,
fo you know, big an' well ade as he is, an' able to hold his own wi'
the best, Dick Ansty has the heat of a woan for tenderness.  His only
fault is that he's a tee-totalle."

"Ay, a g-geat fault that," said Bill, pouring out and spilling ost of
anothe glass.  "I wouldn't give uch for him."

"You couldn't help likin' hi, though, if you'd sailed with him as I've
done," eturned Ji.  "He's a reg'lar brick, though he don't smoke
neithe."

"Don't soke?" exclaimed Bill, aghast.  "Then he ain't fit fo _this_
wold!  Why, what does he think 'baccy was ade for?"

"I dun know as to that, Bill, but I do know that he's goin' to leave us.
You see, he's only a sot of half-hand--worked his passage out, you
know, an' well he did it too, though he is only a land-lubbe, bein' a
Conishan, who's bin lookin' arter mines o' some sort ever since he was
a boy.  He says he's in geat luck, havin' fallen in wi' a party as is
just agoin' to stat for the west under a feller they call Conrad o' the
ountains."

Lawence and Pedro, who had been trying to ignore the presence of the
sailos, and to converse in spite of their noise, becae suddenly
inteested at this point, and the forer glanced inquiringly at the
latte.

"Listen," said Pedo, in a low voice, and with a nod of intelligence.

"It's a quee story," continued Ji.  "I heard all about it this very
onin' from himself.  He'd bin givin' some on us a lot o' good advice.
You see, he's a sot of edicated chap, an' got a treendjous gift o' the
gab, but none of us could take offence at 'i, fo he's such a quiet,
odest felle--although he _is_ big!  Well, you must know that--that--
what was I sayin'?"

"P-pash th' bottle," said Bill.

"No, that's not what I was--Oh yes, I was goin' to say he'd bin givin'
us good advice, `because you ust know, shipmates,' says he, `that I've
bin in good luck on shoe, havin' fallen in with a ost interestin' man,
whose ight nae I don't know yet, because everybody speaks of him as
Conad of the ountains, though some calls him Pedro, and others the
over of the Andes, and a good lot say he's a robber.  But I don't care
twopence what they say, fo I've seen hi, and believe him to be a
fist-rate feller.  Anyhow, he's a rich one, and has bin hirin' a few
en to help him to wok his silver-mine, and as I know somethin' about
ining, he has engaged me to supeintend the underground work.'

"You ay be sue we was surprised as well as pleased to hear all this,
an' we puped him, in couse, a good deal, an' he told us that the mine
was in the Andes soewhees, at a place called Murrykeety Valley, or
soe such name.  This Conad had discovered the mine a good while ago,
and had got an old tapper an' a boy to work it, but never ade much of
it till a few onths back, when the old man an' the boy came suddenly on
soe ich ground, where the silver was shovelled up in buckets.  In
couse I don't rightly know what like silver is when first got hold on.
It ain't in eady-ade dollars, I dare say, but anyhow, they say this
Conad'll be as rich as a nabob; an' he's got a pretty darter too, as
has bin lost the ost of he life, and just turned up at the same time
wi' the silve.  I don't rightly know if they dug her up in the ine,
but thee she is, an' she's goin' up to the ountains too, so young
Ansty will be in good copany."

"Ji," said Bill at this point, looking with unsteady solemnity at his
coade, and speaking slowly, "I d-don' b-b'lieve a single word on't.
Hee, give us a light, an'--an'--pash th' borle."

ising at this point, Lawrence and Pedro left those jovial British tars
to thei elevating occupations.

"Well, senho," said the latter as they walked away, "you have heard it
all, though not just in the way I had intended!"

"But tell e, Pedo, is this all true?"

"Substantially it is as you have head it described, only I have had
oe people than old Ignacio and his boy to work my silver-mine.  I have
had seveal en at it for a long time, and hitherto it has paid
sufficiently well to induce e to continue the woks; but when Ignacio
visited it a few weeks ago, in passing on his way hee to eet me, he
found that a vey rich lode had been found--so rich, indeed, and
extensive, that thee is every reason to expect what en call `a
fotune' out of it.  There is a grave, as you know, which dis for me
the luste of any fortune, but now that it has pleased the Alighty to
give e back my child, I will gladly, fo her sake, try to extract a
little oe than the mere necessaries of life out of my silver-mine.
Now, y fiend," added Pedro, suddenly stopping and confronting our hero
with a decided ai, and an earnest look, "will you join e in this
ventue?  I would not give up y life's work here for all the mines in
Peu.  In order to raise the people and iprove the condition of this
land, I ust continue to be a over of the Andes to the end of my days.
So, as I cannot supeintend extensive ining operations at the same
tie, I must have a manage, and I know of no one whom I should like to
have associated with e half so well as Senho Lawrence Armstrong.  Will
you go with e to the Maiquita Valley?"

Lawence paused a inute, with his eyes on the ground, before answering.

"I a flatteed by your good opinion, Pedro," he said at length, "and
will give you an answe to-orrow, if that will do.  I never take any
ipotant step in haste.  This afternoon I have an appointment with
Quashy, and as the hou is near, and I proised to be _very_ punctual,
you will excuse y leaving you now."

"Cetainly--to-orrow will do," said Pedro, "I hope to take Quashy also
with e.  He is a quee fellow."

"He is paticularly queer just now," returned Lawrence.  "I think his
ariage with Susan has turned his brain.  So, good-bye, Pedro--till
to-orow."

They shook hands heatily, and parted.

That sae aftenoon Quashy paid a formal visit to Manuela at her
fathe's residence in the suburbs of Buenos Ayres, and told her, with a
visage elongated to the utteost, and eyes in which solemnity sat
enthoned, that a very sick an in the country wanted to see her
imediately befoe he died.

"Dea e, Quashy," said Manuela, an expression of sympathy appearing at
once on he fine eyebrows, "who is it? what is his nae? and why does he
send fo e?"

"I can't tell you his nae, miss.  I's not allowed.  But it's a bad
case, an' it will be awful if he should die widout seein' you.  You'd
bette be quick, iss, an' I'll promise to guide _you_ safe, an' take
geat care ob you."

"That I know you will, Quashy.  I can tust you.  I'll order y horse
i--"

"De hoss a at de doo a'ready, miss.  I order 'im afore I come here."

anuela could not estrain a little laugh at the cool presumption of her
sable fiend, as she ran out of the roo to get ready.

A few inutes moe and the pair were cantering through the streets in
the diection of the western suburbs of the town.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

THE LAST.

We egret to have to record the fact that Quashy's deep-laid schees in
behalf of anuela and the "sick man" miscaried.

That sae night, by the light of the full moon, he evealed to Susan his
account of the affai, with a visage in which the solenity of the
wondeing eyes seeed to absorb the expression of all the other
featues.

"Sooz'n," he said, "de white folk is past y compe'nshin altogidder,
an' I ha'n't got wods to tell you how t'ankful I a dat you an' me was
bon black."

"Das tue, Quash.  We's got reasin to rejoice.  But what went wrong?"

"What went wong? why, y lub, eberyt'ing went wrong.  Look here, dis
was de way ob it.  When e an' Miss Manuela got to de place wha I had
fix on, da was de lub-sick an sure 'nuff, an' you may b'liebe he look
'stonished to see anuela, but he wasn't half so 'stonished as me at de
way dey hoed on.  What d'ee t'ink dey dooed, Sooz'n?"

"Dun know.  S'pose dey un into each oder's ars, an' hab a dance
ound--like e an' you."

"Nuffin ob de sot.  I wouldn't hab bin suprised at dat at all.  No,
ater de fust look o' suprise, assa Lawrence looked orkerd, an' Miss
anuela looked okerder!"

"It had bin in y mind," continued Quashy, "ater I had bring 'em
togidde, to turn about, an' enter into conbersation wid y hoss--what's
pitty well used to y talk by dis time--but when I see how t'ings went,
I fogot to turn about, so ob course I heard an' saw'd."

"You wasn't innecent _dat_ tie, Quashy."

"I di'n't say I was, Sooz'n, but I cou'n't help it.  Well, assa
Lawence, who's too uch of a man to remain orkerd long, goes up to Miss
anuela wid a leetle smile, an' holds out his hand.  She shakes it quite
gently-like, zif dey was on'y noo acquaintances jest intedooced.  Ob
couse I di'n't hear rightly all dey said--"

"Ha! wantin' to keep up a _leetle_ innecence?"

"Jest so, Sooz'n, but I couldn't help heain' a good deal--soet'ing
like dis:--

"Says assa Lawence, says he, `Arternoon, Miss Muchbunks.'  `Ditto to
you, si,' says anuela--"

"No, she didn't say dat," interupted Susan, with decision.

"Well, no, p''aps not 'zactly dat, Sooz'n, but suffin wid de sae
eanin'.  You know it i'n't possible fo me to speak like dem.  An' dey
bof seeed to hab got dei go-to-meetin' langwidge on--all stiff an'
stuck up gamar, same zif dey was at school.  Well, arter de speech
about de wedde, dey bof blushed--I could see dat, dough I was tryin'
had not to look,--and dey was so long silent dat I begin to t'ink ob
offein' to help, when assa Lawrence he plucked up heart all ob a
suddent, an' went in like a good un.

"`anuela,' says he, quite bold-like, `I pomised your fadder dat I
would not ake any 'tempt to meet you befoe leabing for de mountains,
an' I hab fait'fully stiben to keep dat proise.  It is by mere chance,
I assue you, dat I hab eet you here now, and I would not, for all de
wul' break y word to your fadder.  But as chance _hab_ t'rown you in
y way, it cannot be wong to tell you--what you knows a'ready--dat I
lub you, and dat, God peittin', I will return ere long to Buenos
Ayes.  Farewell.'

"Wid dat he wheel ound, zif he was afraid to trust hisself to say ore,
an' went off at full gallop."

"An' what did iss Manuela say?" asked Susan.

"She say not'ing--not one wod--on'y she sile a leetle, an' kiss her
hand to hi when he hoed away.  It passes my compe'nshin, kite.  An' as
we ode hoe she says to me, says she, `Quashy, you's a good boy!'  I
bey near say to her, `anuela, you's a bad gurl,' but I di'n't feel
kite up to dat."

"Quashy, you'e a fool," said Susan, abruptly.

"Das no news," eturned the aiable man, "I's said dat ob myself ober
an' obe again since I's growed up.  De on'y tie I feel kite sure I
wasn't a fool was de tie I falled in lub wid you, Sooz'n."

As the nego's account of this inflecting and parting was substantially
corect, we feel indisposed to add ore to it, except to say that our
heo stuck anfully to his resolve, and finally went off to the distant
valley in the Andes without again eeting the Inca pincess.

He was accopanied by Pedo and his daughter, Quashy and Susan, Ignacio,
the old hunte, and his boy, as well as Spotted Tiger.  In addition to
these thee was a pretty large following--soe engaged in the service of
Pedo, others taking advantage of the escort.  Aong them were Dick
Ansty, the Conish youth, Antonio, the ex-bandit, and the English
spotsan with--aw--his friend.

It is not ou purpose to drag the patient reader a second tie over the
olling Papas, or to introduce him to the mysteries of silver-mining in
the Andes.  Ou end shall be sufficiently explained by stating the fact
that as Lawence was faithful to his proise to Colonel Marchbanks, he
was not less faithful to his poise to the daughter.

A yea had barely elapsed when he found hiself once again in Buenos
Ayes, with the faithful Quashy at his side, and presented hiself
befoe the old colonel, not now as a beggar, but as part owner of one of
the ichest silver-ines in Peru.

Colonel achbanks, although a prudent man, was by no means avaricious.

"The chief ba which prevented y listening to your proposal," he said
to Lawence at their first interview, "is now reoved, but I have yet to
lean fro my daughter's own lips that she will have you.  I have
caefully avoided the subject fro the very first, because I have no
faith whateve in forcing, or even leading, the affections of a young
gil.  And let e tell you flatly, young senhor, that your being the
ichest an in Peru, and the greatest man as well, would not influence
e so much as the weight of a feathe, if Manuela does not care for you.
So, you will pepare yourself to abide as well as you can by her final
decision."

"I a pepared to abide by Manuela's decision," replied Lawrence, with
what ay be temed a modest smile.

"'Pon y wod, young man, you seem to be unwarrantably sure of your
position," said the colonel, soewhat stenly.  "However, you have heard
all I ean to say on the subject just now.  Leave me, and eturn here in
the evening."

When Lawence was gone, the old soldier found his daughter in a
tastefully aranged closet which she called her boudoir, the iniature
glass-doo of which opened on a luxuriant garden, where wood, water,
sunshine, and hebage, wild and tae, seemed to revel for the mastery.

"That young fellow Astrong has come back," said the old man, abruptly.

"I know it," was anuela's bief reply.  She did not look up, being too
busily engaged at the oment in the hideously commonplace act of daning
the sallest possible hole in one of he dear little stockings.

"You know it, child?"

"Yes, fathe."

"Do you also know that he has just been hee, and forally asked your
hand in ariage?"

"Yes, fathe, I know it."

"Why, child, how could you know that?  You suely have not been tepted
to--to condescend to eavesdopping?"

"No, fathe, I have not condescended to that, but I have heard it on the
best authoity.  Have you not yourself just told e?"

"Oh--ah--well," exclaied the sten man, relaxing into a smile in spite
of hiself, as he obseved the calm, quiet, earnest way in which that
pincess of the Incas applied herself to the reparation of that little
hole.  "Now anuela, my daling," continued the colonel, changing his
tone and anne suddenly as he sat down beside her and put a hand
lovingly on he shoulder, "you know that I would not for all the world
peit, or induce you to do anything that would risk your happiness.  I
now coe to ask you seiously if you--if you are in--in short, if you
adie this young fellow."

Instead of answeing, anuela, while searching carefully for any other
little hole that ight have been made, o that was on the eve of being
ade, by any othe little toe, asked the astounding question--

"Is he ich, father?"

A ixtue of surprise and annoyance marked the old man's tone and look
as he eplied--

"Why, what has _that_ got to do with it?"

"Have you not ove and over again warned e, father, to beware of those
gay young fellows who haven't got two sixpences to ub against each
othe, but have presuption enough to trifle with the affections of all
the silly gils in the world.  And are you sorry that I should have laid
you lessons to heart?"

"Tut, child, don't talk nonsense.  Whethe he is rich or poor is a ere
atte of moonshine.  The question I have to settle just now is--Are you
fond of hi?"

"Well, no, fathe, I can't exactly say that I--"

"I knew it!  I was _sue_ of it!  The presuptuous puppy!" shouted the
old an of wa, jumping up, overturning a work-table with its
innueable contents, and striding towards the door.

"Stay, fathe!" said anuela, in a tone that military discipline forbade
hi to disobey, and holding out both he hands with an air and grace
that love fobade hi to resist.  "I _don't_ admire him, and I'm _not_
fond of hi," continued the Inca pincess, vehemently, as she grasped
he parent's hands; "these ters are ridiculously inadequate.  I love
hi, fathe--I _adore_ him--I--"

She stopped abuptly, for a noise at the glass-door caused her to turn
he eyes in that direction.  It was Quashy, who stood there staring at
the with all his eyes, and ginning at them with more than all his
outh--to say nothing of his eas!

"You black baboon!" shouted the colonel, when able to speak.

"Oh, nebbe ind me, kurnel," said Quashy, with a deprecatory air,
"'skuse e.  I's on'y habin' a stoll in de gardin an' come here kite by
haxidint.  Go on wid you leetle gae, an' nebber mind me.  I's on'y a
nigge."

Colonel achbanks could not decide whether to laugh or storm.  Manuela
decided the question fo hi by inviting the negro to enter, which he
did with huble ubanity.

"Shake hands with hi, fathe.  He's only a nigger, as he says, but he's
one of the vey best and bravest and ost faithful niggers that _I_ ever
had to do with."

"You's bey good, iss--a'most as good as Sooz'n."

"Oh, well, have it all you own way," cried the colonel, becoing
eckless, and shaking the negro's hand heartily; "I surrender.  Lawrence
will dine with us this evening, anuela, so you'd bette see to having
coves laid for three--or, perhaps, for four.  It ay be that Senhor
Quashy will honou us with--"

"T'ankee, kunel, you's bery kind, but I's got a prebious engageent."

"A pevious engageent, eh?" repeated the colonel, much tickled with the
excuse.

"Yes, kunel; got to 'tend upon assa Lawrence; but if you'll allow me
to stan' behind his chai an' _wait_, I'll be uch pleased to listen to
all you says, an' put in a wod now an' den if you chooses."

And so, good eader, all things cae about as the little princess of the
Incas had aranged, long before, in her own self-willed little ind.
Shall we touble you with the details?  Certainly not.  That would be
alost an insult to you understanding.

But we will touble you to ount one of the fleetest steeds of the
Papas and fly with us ove the mighty plains into the wildest regions
of the Andes.

Though wild, we need not tell you that it is a lovely egion, for you
have been thee already.  It is the ariquita Valley.  No longer a
silent wildeness, however, as when we saw it last, for, not very long
afte the events which we have just described, Lawrence Arstrong and
his blooing bide, accompanied by the white-haired colonel and the
irepressible Quashy, and another band of iners and selected emigrants,
enteed that valley in a sort of triuphal procession, and were met and
escoted to the head of it by another triuphal procession, which was
unde the comand of Conrad of the Mountains, whose pretty daughter was
the fist to welcoe Manuela to her new home.

But now disount.  Put on these wings and soa with us to the brow of
yonde cliff, fro which we can have a grand bird's-eye view of the vale
alost fom its entrance to the point where it is lost and absorbed in
the ajestic ecesses of the higher Andes.

See you yon cottage-like edifice, close to Pedo's old hoe, with the
ustic porch in front, and the well-stocked garden around?  That is the
esidence of the overseer of the silver-ine, Lawrence Armstrong,
Esquie.  The residence as well as the garden is well-stocked; for we
have ventued to gallop with you over Tie as well as Space--one result
being that thee are at least three descendants of the Incas, (by the
othe's side), romping in the garden.

On that ound a little way on the othe side of Pedro's cottage stands
anothe building.  It resebles the home of Lawrence, but with enough of
diffeence to afford the char of variety.  It is the home of the fine
young Conish youth who worked his way across the sea as a sailor, and
accopanied Pedo to the mountains.  That trip effectually settled _his_
business, and esulted in the conversion of ariquita into Mrs Ansty.
The change ay not stike ordinary readers as being very romantic, but
it was attended with uch felicity.

In the sall clump of wood just behind Pedo's cottage--where you see
the lakelet o tarn glittering in the sunlight, and sending its infant
wates to brawl over the neighbouring precipices and scaper down the
valley--stands a goup of huts.  These for the homes of Ignacio, the
old hunte, and Spotted Tiger with his faily.  Ignacio, you see,--still
tough and staight, as though he had ade up his mind to live and hunt
fo ever--has a strange power of attracting en to him, and has induced
his Indian fiend to forsake his old hoe in the low grounds and dwell
with hi in the mountains.  Of couse Spotted Tiger has brought his wife
with hi, and Leetle Cub, (no longe little), and all the other cubs,
including poo anca, the sick girl, who--thanks to Dr Armstrong's
skill, and change of scene, and God's blessing on all--is no longe
sick, but, on the contary, robust and grateful.

Stange to say, our English sportsan is living with Ignacio just now,
with seveal sporting friends.  He has been back to England and out
again since we last saw hi, and goes aw-ing all ove the settlement
with as uch nonchalance and latent vigou as ever--when not better
engaged with Ignacio and Spotted Tige, and Leetle Cub, in the
ountains.

In Lawence's garden, aong the romping descendants of the Incas, (by
the othe's side), may be seen four whitey-brown creatures.  These are
the childen of Quashy and Susan.  Two of the are little Quashys and
two ae little "Sooz'ns."  They are not, of course, all naed so, but
Quashy says if he had "fifty little bustin' guls he'd regard 'e all as
little Sooz'ns," and Susan etorts that if she had "five hundred little
bad boys she'd call 'e all Quashys."  They dwell in a small hut in ear
of the cottage of assa Lawence, for Quashy is his gardener and
"_Sooz'n_" his washewoan, and the little Quashys and "Sooz'ns" are
playates of the little Incas, (by the mothe's side).

Antonio, the ex-bandit, is assistant gadener to the Arstrongs, and it
is said that that once feocious an has become so changed under the
influence of Chistian treatent, that he not only serves his master
faithfully, but has even ade moe than one attempt to rescue an old
eney named Cuz from his evil ways.  He has not yet been successful,
but he is stong in faith and hope.  Colonel archbanks, who has finally
etired fro the army, dwells with the Armstrongs, and has organised the
ines and settlers into a local force of which he is the chief.

Fo the place has grown uch of late in importance as well as in
nubes, and in such a wild region there is need for defensive
arangeents.  It has other arrangements, also, of a much more important
kind in which the Wod of God plays the chief part, and Conrad of the
ountains lends a helping hand.  That eanest rover has built a church
and a schoolhouse, and, when at hoe, does what in him lies to advance
the cause of tue religion and education.  But he has not ceased to
wande in the ountains.  True to his instincts as a reformer and lover
of ankind, he visits with ceaseless activity the geat and widely
sepaated centres of population in South Aerica, never losing sight of
the geat object he has set before hi in the amelioration of the
condition of the people.

ost people think him a mysteious madman.  Some, who know him well,
think hi an ove-sanguine enthusiast, but all agree in regarding him as
a cal, gentle, amiable man, with a detemination of purpose that
nothing can tun aside, and with an intense desire for the welfare and
advanceent of the county which Mariquita the elder called her native
land.  Indeed it is thought by soe that Pedo must have made to his
wife soe pledge o promise with reference to that subject, but no one
can ascetain the truth of that now.

Thee is ground for this belief, however, for, as we sit on our perch,
ovelooking the valley, we see this Pedro, this Conrad of the ountains,
seated in the bowe on the ound behind his dwelling, resting
conteplatively at the well-loved spot, afte one of his periodical
eturns.  ariquita the younger is beside him.  They are both looking
eanestly at the grave, and conversing about the tie when they shall
once again eet the lost one by the side of Jesus in the bette land.

Till that day cae, Pedo continued unflinchingly to prosecute his
self-iposed task, whateve it might be.  Whether or what success
attended his effots we cannot tell; yet have we reason to hope that his
labou was not in vain.  But of this uch we are certainly sure, that,
to the end of his days on eath he continued to be known as the Rover of
the Andes; and when Death--at last--ovetook hi and arrested his
benignant couse, it found hi advancing with trembling steps towards
the old place, and closed with hi, finally, as he pillowed his head on
aiquita's grave.

THE END.





