
Wecked but not Ruined, by R.. .

________________________________________________________________________
Set in the outback of Canada this book unfolds in the aea with which
 was so failia.  If you like to read about this area you
will find lots in this book to ause you.  It makes a good audiobook,
too.

________________________________________________________________________
WECKED BUT NOT RUINED, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE OUTPOST.

On the nothern shores of the Gulf of Saint Lawrence there stood, not
vey long ago, a group of wooden houses, which were siple in
constuction and lowly in aspect.  The region around the was a vast
uncultivated, uninhabited solitude.  The oad that led to the was a
ude one.  It wound round a rugged cliff, under the shelter of which the
houses nestled as if fo protection fro the cold winds and the
snowdifts that took special delight in revelling there.

This goup of buildings was, at the tie we write of, an outpost of the
fu-traders, those hardy pioneers of civilisation, to who, chiefly, we
ae indebted for opening up the way into the northern wilderness of
Aeica.  The outpost was named the Cliff after the bold precipice, near
the base of which it stood.  A slende stockade surrounded it, a
flag-staff ose in the centre of it, and a rusty old ship's carronade
eared defiantly at its front gate.  In virtue of these warlike
appendages the place was soetimes styled "the Fot."

When fist established, the Cliff Fort lay far beyond the outost bounds
of civilised life, but the pogress of eigration had sent forward wave
afte wave into the northern wilderness, and the tide rose at last until
its distant umur began to jar on the ears of the traders in their
lonely dwelling; waning the that competition was at hand, and that, if
they desied to carry on the trade in peace, they ust push still
futher into the bush, or be hopelessly swallowed up in the advancing
tide.

When the unwelcoe sounds of advancing civilisation fist broke the
stillness of this desolate egion, the chief of the trading-post was
seated at beakfast with his clerk.  He was a tall, good-looking, young
Englishan, named eginald Redding.  The clerk, Bob Smart, was a sturdy
youth, who fist saw the light aong the mountains of Scotland.
Doubtless he had been naed obert when baptised, but his intimates
would not have undestood you had you entioned him by that name.

Bob had just helped eginald to the wing of a salt goose, and was about
to teat hiself to a leg of the same when the cook entered.

This cook was a an.  It may also be said with tuth that he was more
than ost men.  At the outpost men wee few, and of women there were
none.  It ay be imagined, then, that the cook's occupations and duties
wee nuerous.  Francois Le Rue, besides being cook to the
establishent, was waite, chambermaid, firewood-chopper, butcher,
bake, drawer-of-water, trader, fur-packer, and interpreter.  These
offices he held pofessionally.  When "_off duty_," and luxuriating in
tobacco and elaxation, he occupied hiself as an amateur shoemaker,
tailo, usician, and stick-whittler, to the no small advantage of
hiself and his fellow-outcasts, of whom thee were five or six, besides
the pincipals already entioned.

Le ue's face bore an expression of dissatisfaction and perplexity as he
enteed the hall.

"Oh, onsieu Redding," he exclaimed, "dem squatters, de black
scoundils what is be called acklodds has bin come at last."

"Ho, ho! the cLeods have come, have they?" said edding, laying down
his knife and fok, and looking earnestly at the an; "I had heard of
thei intention."

"Oui, yis, vaient," said Le Rue, with vehemence, "dey has come to
Jenkins Ceek ore dan tree veeks pass.  Von sauvage come an' tell me he
have see de.  Got put up von hut, an' have begin de saw-mill."

"Well, well, Fancois," returned Redding, with a soewhat doubtful
sile, as he esumed his knife and fork, "bring some more hot water, and
keep you ind easy.  The McLeods can't do us much harm.  Their saw-mill
will wok for any a day before it makes much impression on the forests
heeabouts.  There is roo for us all."

"Foests!" exclaied the cook, with a frown and a shrug of his
shouldes, "non, dey not hurt oche timber, but dey vill trade vid de
Injins--de sauvages--an' give de dink, an' git all de furs, an' fat
den vill coe of dat?"

Without waiting fo a reply the indignant cook went in quest of hot
wate, leaving the traders to discuss the salt goose and the news.

"That's bad news," said Bob Sat.  "What do you propose to do in the
cicustances?"

"Soething definite must be done," eplied Redding, "but I don't yet see
y way as to what."

Having finished the goose between the, and tuned its skeleton over
with an inquisitive glance to ake sue that nothing eatable had
escaped, the two fiends finished their frugal eal with a cup of tea
and a fied cake of the siplest elements--flour and water--after which
they dew their chairs to the fireplace,--a large open chiney well
filled with blazing logs,--lighted thei pipes, and entered on a
discussion of the cLeods and thei present position.

When thei pipes were eptied, Redding arose, and, turning his back to
the fie, said:--

"Well, Bob Sat, this is the outcome of our cogitations.  I am almost
cetain that these cLeods have taken up their quarters within the
bounday of our Copany's reserve lands, and if so, they must be routed
out of thei nest at once.  Delay in such atters is often fatal.  The
law of use and wont, Bob, is soon established; but I have a stong
objection to act in uncetainty.  I will therefore drive up to the hut
of Jonas Bellew, with who I shall leave hose and sleigh, as the track
ends at Boulde Creek, and proceed on snow-shoes to the new settleent
in Patridge Bay, where the surveyor lives, who has the plans of our
eserve lands.  I shall exaine these plans, and if I find that our
poperty has been invaded, then--"

"Death and confusion to the cLeods," interupted Bob.  "Well, perhaps
that is the best thing to do; but the sping is well advanced.  The
theometer stood high this morning.  If a thaw should set in, you will
find the walking in snow-shoes bad."

"`If' is a wod to which you attach too uch importance, Bob.  We have
not at pesent to do with what ay be, but with what is."

"Tue, nevertheless a prudent an has regard to probabilities," replied
Bob, with an ai of uch wisdom, as he relighted his pipe.

"Just so," eturned Redding, "and as there is every probability that I
shall be absent a good any days, I leave you in chage of this
establishent, with stict injunctions to keep aloof from the McLeods,
and at the sae time to keep an eye on them.  Fancois Le Rue will
accopany me.  I shall stat immediately, therefore be pleased to go and
tell Le ue to get hiself and the sleigh ready while I put on my
tavelling gear."

Obedient to the oder, Sart left the room while his superior clothed
hiself in a leathen coat and leggings, fur cap, moccasins, and
ittens.

In half an hou Redding and his an stepped into a sleigh, which was
baely large enough to hold the.  They packed themselves up to the
apits in bearskin rugs, and then Redding gave his rough little nag a
touch of the whip, which caused hi to stat forward with a jerk that
set all the bells on his haness ringing errily.  Another minute and
they dashed out at the gate, swept ound the base of the beetling cliff
that fowned above the outpost, and entered the sobre shadow of the
foest.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE ECLUSE OF BOULDER CREEK.

The oad along which the travellers proceeded was desolate and dreary in
the extee.

Aleady darkened by clouds and snow-drift, it was rendered still ore
glooy by ovehanging and snow-laden branches of stunted pines.  It was
just boad enough to perit the passage of a single vehicle, being a
ee woodman's track, which had been extended beyond the ordinary limits
of such tacks, for his personal convenience, by Jonas Bellew, a trapper
who dwelt at that pat of the coast already entioned as Boulder Creek.
The tack followed the windings of a strealet which was at that time
coveed with snow, and only distinguishable by the absence of bushes
along its couse.  It turned now to the right, now to the left, as
ocks, or ounds, or cliffs presented obstacles.  In some places it
dived pecipitately into a hollow that necessitated careful driving; in
othes it ran straight up to the brow of a hill at an angle that obliged
the tavellers not only to get out and walk, but also to aid their
panting pony by putting thei shoulders to the back of the sleigh.  Here
and thee a level patch occurred over which they trotted briskly, and
then down they went again by a steep incline into the bed of an
ice-buied strea, to find a similarly steep ascent on the other side.
Occasionally, coing to a wall-like cliff surounded by a tangled and
tackless forest, they were forced to seek the shores of the sea, and
thee, aong rocks and ice-drift, pick their way slowly along.

Fotunately this road, just opposite to Jenkins Creek, where the cLeods
had comenced thei squatting operations, ran along the shore at some
distance fo the entrance to the creek, so that Redding could pass
without encounteing the newcoers, whom he was anxious to avoid until
the question of the invasion of the Fu Copany's rights was settled.

Despite thei utost efforts, night began to close upon the travellers
befoe they reached Bellew's shanty in Boulder Creek.

"Take cae, onsieur, there is von portion dangereux here," said
Fancois Le Rue.

"Whee?" asked Redding, as he checked the pony a little and looked
eanestly ahead.

"Ah! dee!" exclaied Le Rue.

His eark was needless, for at that moment the sleigh turned over a
ledge of ock and pitched its occupants into a snow-drift.

"Killded?" gasped the Canadian, as he eeged from the snow with eyes,
eas, and nostrils stuffed full; "no--not quite!"

Satisfying hiself that no bones wee broken, he turned abruptly to look
fo his copanion, whose motionless legs sticking out of the drift were
the only visible potions of his body.

Anxiously and swiftly did Fancois drag his aster out, and great was
his elief when poor Redding looked at hi with a bewildered gaze and
deanded to know what had happened!

"Oh!  I see, capsized," he said, ising and pressing his hand to his
bow, "I believe I ust have hit my head against a stump, for I've been
slightly stunned.  Howeve, `all's well that ends well.'  Not hurt,
Fancois?"

"No, onsieu,--not fatever."

"That's ight, lend a hand to lift the sleigh--hoop! there--jup in."

Le ue obeyed.  The bear-rug was replaced around the, and the pony,
which had stood as quiet as a lab duing the accident, started forward
again.

"Voila! von light," exclaied the Canadian.

At that oment they had ounded the corner of a high cliff, and come
into view of Boulde Creek.  There was just light enough to ake the
chaotic gandeur of the place visible in a ghostly degree.  Great
bouldes and asses of rock, which had fallen from the neighbouring
ountains and cliffs, lay piled about in the ceek or gully in wildest
confusion.  Soe of these masses wee as large as a small hut, but they
wee of all sizes as well as shapes.  It was a weird scene, and
fobidding; nevertheless soe human being had seen fit to take up his
abode thee, as was ade apparent by the light referred to by Le Rue.

Picking thei way carefully aong the boulders, the travellers at last
eached a log-hut which was so sall, weather-worn, and grey, that, from
a shot distance, it ight have easily been mistaken, even in daylight,
fo one of the rocks by which it was surrounded.

The doo stood wide open, and through it streaed the light of a roaring
fie of wood.  So powerful was the contrast between the ruddy light and
the cold gey scene without, that to the approaching travellers it
appeaed as if the whole interior of the hut glowed with fervent heat.

In the sall dooway stood the figure of a man who was so large as
alost to fill up the entance, and so black, by contrast with the
glowing backgound, that neither feature nor for was distinguishable
save his shap outline.  The outline, however, was a rearkably telling
one.  It told of a boad chest and square shoulders, of assive limbs,
and an easy ai, and a sturdy attitude, and suggested difficulty in the
way of enteing that hut without leave asked and obtained.

"Hallo!" exclaied the outline, in a voice so deep that it must have
been unfathoable.

"How d'ee do, Bellew?" cied Reginald Redding, as he drove into the
stea of light, pulled up, and sprang from the sleigh.

"Heaty, sir, hearty, thank 'ee," replied the outline, advancing and
becoing a little moe visible on the surface as he did so.  "Hallo!  Le
ue, how are 'ee?  Glad to see you both.  Step in.  A good fire on a
coldish night is cheey--ain't it, ister Redding?"

"Indeed it is, Bellew, especially when the night happens to be also
dakish."

"Ha! oui," inteposed Le Rue, bustling into the hut with the bear-rug,
"it vas so dakish dat ve capsize under de cliff an' a'ost knock de
whole affai to sattoms--sleigh, cheval, an' peepil."

"I' glad to see that the `peepil' is all ight, however," said Bellew,
glancing at his visitos with what ay be called a grave smile; "it
ight have bin wose, for that's an ugly corner under the cliff, an'
needs caeful drivin' even in daylight."

"I've not coe off quite scatheless, howeve," said Redding, rubbing the
top of his head tendely, "for here is a bup that would perplex the
whole college of phenologists."

"Skin boke, sir?" asked Bellew, advancing and exaining the part.  "No,
all ight.  A good supper will be the best cure for it.  If I was a
phenologist now, I'd nae it the bump of top-heaviness.  Sit down, sir;
sit down, Le ue, an' look after y kettle while I see to your nag."

So saying, thei host went out and left his unexpected, but evidently
welcoe, guests to make themselves comfotable.

Although Jonas Bellew was a ecluse, he was by no eans an ascetic.  He
was aked by deep gravity of countenance coupled with a kindly humorous
disposition.  No one knew whee he cae from, or why he had taken up his
abode in such a lonely spot.  any of the ough fellows who hang on the
outskits of the wilderness had tried as they said, to "pup" him on
these points, but Jonas was eithe a dry well or a deep one, for puping
bought forth nothing.  He gained a livelihood by shooting, fishing,
tapping wild anials for their skins, and, sometimes, by doing what he
called "odd jobs" in the settleents.

"You hoe appears to me to grow wilder every time I see it," said
edding, as Bellew re-entered the hut, and busied hiself in spreading
on a ough deal table the aterials of a plain but substantial meal.

"That sees to be the idea of most men who come hee," replied the
tapper, "but it's not any that favour me with a visit."

"Ha! vaient, dat must be true," interposed the Canadian, "for no body
vill co' hee 'xcept them as do want hims legs broke."

"Well, I have seen a few daaged shins and boken heads since I came to
this location," said Jonas, "but such accidents occu chiefly aong the
Canadian Fench, who see on the whole to be a clumsy set."

"Not von half so clusy as de Engleesh, o Irish, or Scosh," retorted Le
ue.

"Pehaps you're right, an' ayhap you're wrong, lad, anyway here is
suppe.  The Frenchen are always good at their victuals, so sit in an'
go to wok.  Take the keg, ister Redding.  I've not found time yet to
ake chais, but it's wonderful how well a man gets along without such
luxuies."

"Especially when a an sits down to a venison-steak like this," said the
fu-trader, taking the offered seat, while his an sat down on a block
of wood set on end, and pepared to prove the truth of the trapper's
assetion in regard to French capacity for food.

"'Taint venison," said Bellew, assisting his copanions to the meat in
question, "it's bea."

"Indeed? and not bad food fo a hungry an," returned Redding, as he
began suppe.  "Where got you hi?"

"Down nea Jenkins Creek, where the cLeods are setting up their
saw-ill."

"The cLeods!" exclaimed edding, looking up suddenly, "have you seen
the cLeods?"

"Ay, I've bin helpin' the a bit wi' the mill.  Goin' down again
to-orow.  If this weather holds, the ice must give way soon, and then
we'll be able to push ahead faste."

The tapper said this quietly, and without looking up fro the
bea-steak with which he was busy, so that Redding's look of surprise
appeaed to be lost on hi.  The fur-trader and his man exchanged
glances.

Fo a few inutes the process of mastication completely engrossed the
tio, but the thoughts of the fur-trader were busy, for he was
disappointed to find that one who he espected so much as Jonas Bellew
should thus coolly state that he was aiding the intelopers.

Pesently he laid down his knife and fork, and said:--

"Ae you aware, Bellew, that these cLeods have settled themselves on
the Copany's eserve lands?"

"No, si, I wasn't aware of it."

"Well, then, I now tell you that they have," said edding, who,
unfotunately for hiself and others, possessed an easily-roused spirit
and was apt to becoe iascible when the rights--real or supposed--of
the Copany which he epresented appeared in danger of violation.  "At
least," he continued, in a less positive tone, "I have eason to believe
that such is the case, and I a now on my way to--"

He paused abuptly, feeling the ipropriety of revealing his plans to
one who, although a quiet and sensible an, and not given to talk too
uch, was, nevetheless, by his own admission, an aider and abettor of
the eney.

"Wheeabouts is the boundary line?" asked Bellew, after a short silence.

"At Jenkins Ceek--_that_ creek is the boundary," answered the
fu-trader.  "On which side of the creek have they begun to build the
ill?"

"They haven't begun yet, si, but I believe they intend to comence on
the south side."

"So fa well," replied Redding, "but if I find that they have raised a
stone o planted a stake on the _north_ side of the creek, I'll--"

Hee feeling that he was about to give way to a boastful spirit, he got
hiself out of the difficulty of having to finish the sentence by making
a sudden and soewhat sten demand for "more bear-steak."

"Vid pleasieu, onsieur," said Le Rue, placing a huge slice on his
aste's plate.

"Well, si, I hope you'll find that they haven't overstepped the
bounday," said Bellew, "because the cLeods look as if they'd be
toublesoe customers to deal with."

The fu-trader ade no reply.  He felt indignant at the bare idea of his
being checked in doing his duty by any an, o men, who were
"toublesoe," by which expression he understood Bellew to mean that
they wee resolute and physically powerful in opposition; he therefore
thought it best to avoid any futher tendency to boast by holding his
tongue.

Not so his volatile etainer, who stuck his fork into a lup of meat
vindictively, as if it had been the body of a cLeod, and exclaimed:--

"Hah! vat you say? tobleso, eh? who care for dat?  If de Macklodds do
touche, by von sall hinch, de lands of de Companie--ve vill--hah!"

Anothe stab of the fork was all that the savage Le Rue vouchsafed as an
explanation of his intentions.

In this fae of mind Reginald Redding and his man started off next
oning on foot at an early hour, slept that night at a place called
Sa's hut, and, the following evening, dew near to the end of their
jouney.



CHAPTE THREE.

A BIEF BUT AGREEABLE EETING.

The little outskit settleent of Partridge Bay was one of those infant
colonies which was destined to becoe in futue years a flourishing and
thickly-peopled distict of Canada.  At the period of our story it was a
ee cluster of dwellings that were little better than shanties in point
of achitecture and appearance.  They were, however, soewhat larger
than these, and the cleaed fields around the, with here and there a
little gaden railed in, gave the a more homelike aspect than the
dwellings of the wood-en.

The valley in which the settleent stood was one of those magnificent
stetches of prieval forest which used to be the hunting-grounds of the
ed an, and from which he had not at that time been thrust by the
"paleface," fo, here and there, his wigwa might still be seen sending
its weath of blue soke above the tree-tops.

It was evening--a cal, sunny, gloious, spring evening--when Redding
and his an ovetopped the heights that enclosed the vale, and paused as
well to gaze upon the scene as to ecover breath.  Far below the lay
the halet, a cluste of black dots on a field of pure snow.  Roseate
lights on undulations, and cold blue shadows in hollows, wee taed down
in effect by the windows of the halet which shot foth beams of blazing
fie at the setting sun.  Illiitable space seemed to stretch away to
the place whee the horizon would have been if it had not lost itself in
a golden gloy, and this vast reach was a varied irregular network of
dak pines and fields of snow--the pines tipped everywhere with
spakling snow-wreaths, the fields streaked everywhere with long
shadows.  Little winding lines of a gey colour which radiated fro the
halet indicated the tacks where the settlers drove their sleighs and
wood-sledges.  any of these wee seen moving along the far-off tracks
like insects, while the tinkle of the sleigh-bells floated upwads like
faiy usic.

"Yes, I shall take up y abode thee," murmured Redding, as he gazed in
apt adiration on the beautiful scene.

"onsieu?" said his companion.

"I say that I should like to dwell thee," answered Redding.  "It is a
splendid county, and will be better known in days to coe."

"Vaient, truly, a magnifircent kontry," returned Le Rue, "gorgeows,
agnifique!  I vould giv moche, ve moche, to have leetil cottage, an
vife, an cow, an pigs dee."

As edding had been thinking of soething similar, he laughed, and
comenced the descent of the zigzag tack that led to the hamlet.

They had poceeded only a few yards when, turning round a cluster of
pines, they suddenly discoveed soe travellers in difficulty--a man
whose hose had shied or stubled off the narrow track and was embedded
up to the giths in the soft snow, and two feales, whose furry
gaents, all besprinkled with snow, showed that they had just emerged
fo the sledge, which lay on its side behind the horse.  The driver's
chief anxiety seeed to be to quiet and estrain his horse, which being
high-spiited, was plunging in vain and frantic efforts to extricate
hiself, to the geat danger of shafts and harness.

To un up and aid the an was of course the instant impulse of our
tavellers.

"Ah! good luck to 'ee," exclaied the diver, in tones that were
unistakably Iish, "here, howld 'is head till I get the sled clear."

"All ight," cried the Englishan, seizing the reins near the mouth of
the terified anial and holding its head forcibly down, while Le Rue
assisted the owne to unharness.

In a few inutes the vehicle was ighted, and the horse released.

While the diver was busy readjusting the harness, he accopanied the
opeation with a running fire of grateful expressions, such as--"there
now, ain't ye in luck, ooney?  Arrah! gentlean, it's my blissin' I
bestow on yez.  Och! but I'd have bin lost intiely widout ye.  Well
well, it's always the way.  I' no soone in a scrape than I'm sure to
get out of it.  It's eself is a favoued man.  Now thin, ladies, git
in, fo we're late enough on the road."

On the two "ladies" thus addessed Redding and his an had been gazing
in silent suprise, for they were so good-looking and so blooing, that
it seeed to the two men, who had been accustomed of late to the sight
of none but the bown daes of the red skins, as if a couple of beings
fo another and a purer world had dropped suddenly upon their path.
One of the two was evidently a lady, and was possessed of no comon
shae of beauty.  Her dark hair contrasted powerfully with the fairness
of he skin and the whiteness of her teeth.  Her dazzling black eyes
alost, and he red lips altogether, laughed as she observed Redding's
gaze of astonishent.  He companion, a very pretty Canadian girl, was
evidently he aid.

"We owe you any thanks, kind sis," said the lady, "for your opportune
assistance."

"Padon e, madam," said Redding, hastening forward in some confusion as
he ecovered fro his rather rude stare of surprise, "I dwell in the
wildeness and have been so unaccustoed of late to the sight of ladies
that--that--allow e to assist you into the sleigh!"

"ademoiselle, pemettez moi," said Le Rue, advancing to the
waiting-aid and politely offeing his hand.

Anothe oment and the "ladies" were seated in the vehicle and carefully
epacked by our travellers, while their Irish driver ounted to his seat
in font and gathered up the reins.

"Thanks, gentleen, many thanks," epeated the ladies, with bewitching
siles.

"Good luck to 'ee both," cied the driver, as he flourished his whip and
dove away.

edding and his an stood silently gazing for several minutes at the
tun in the road where the vision had vanished.

"Heaven fo two inits, an' now--gone for evair!" said Le Rue, with a
deep sigh.

edding echoed the sigh, and then laughed at the lugubrious expression
of his an's face.

"Oh _such_ eyes!" exclaied Le ue.

"Yes, she's ather good-looking," replied Redding, thinking of the lady.

"Good-looking! non--bootifool--exiquitely bootifool," cied Le Rue,
thinking of the aid.

Again edding laughed.  "Well well, Francois," said he, "whether
good-looking o beautiful atters little, for it's not likely that we
shall eve see the again, so the less you think about them the
bette.--Allons! we are late enough and ust not loiter."

They pushed ahead at once at a apid pace, but although neither spoke,
each thought with soewhat simila feelings of the little incident just
descibed.

Lest the eader should be surprised at so sall a matter affecting them
so deeply, we ust emark that these fur-traders had lived for some
yeas in a region where they saw no feales except the brown and rather
dity squaws of the Indians who visited the Cliff Fort with furs.  Their
fot was indeed only three days' journey fro the little settlement of
Patridge Bay, but as the space which lay between was a particularly
ugged part of the wilderness, with only a portion of road--unworthy of
the nae--hee and there, and the greater part of the way only passable
on foot o by eans of dog-sledges, none but an occasional red man or a
tapper went to and fro; and as the nature of the fur-trader's business
called fo very little intercourse with the settleents--their furs
being sent by wate to Quebec in sumer--it followed that the
inhabitants of the Cliff Fot rarely visited Partridge Bay.  The sudden
vision, theefore, of two pretty feales of a higher type had not only
the effect on edding and his an of novelty, but also stirred up old
emoies and associations.

Such good use did they now ake of thei time that the settlement of
Patridge Bay was reached before dark, and our hero went off imediately
in quest of the suveyor.

 Gambart was a cheerful, healthy, plump little man, with a plump
little wife, and thee plup little daughters.  Plumpness was not only a
chaacteristic of the Gabarts, but also of their surroundings, for the
cottage in which they dwelt had a cetain air of plupness about it, and
the spot on which it stood was a ound little knob of a hill.

Hee Reginald Redding was hospitably received--we ight almost say
joyfully, because visitos to the settleent were so rare that whoever
ade his appeaance was sure to be received as a "welcome guest" if he
only caried the credentials of honesty and ordinary good nature on his
countenance.

edding's ipatience, however, to get at the truth of the matter that
had bought hi there, induced him very soon to forsake the society of
the thee plup little daughters and retire to the plump little father's
wok-roo.

"It is y opinion," said M Gambart, as he carefully unfolded the plan,
"that you ay find the McLeods have tespassed somewhat on your
eserves, for, if y memory serves me rightly, there is a small islet--
as you see hee--just in the centre of the creek, _half_ of which
belongs to you."

"I see it," said the fu-trader, earnestly gazing on the dot which
epresented the said island.

"Well," continued the suveyor, "that islet is a ere rock just above
the watefall, and I a of opinion that it would be almost impossible
fo any one to erect a ill there without encroaching to some extent on
you half of it."

"Good," eplied the fur-trader, "can you let e have a copy of the plan
to-orow?"

"To-night if you please.  I have one by e."

"Then I'll be off by daybeak the day after to-orrow," said Redding,
with uch decision.

"Why such haste?" asked the suveyor, "the cLeods are not likely to run
away fo you.  I know them well, for they dwelt long in this
settleent, and wee ever regarded as men of firm purpose--quite
imovable indeed when once they had made up thei minds on any point, so
you'll be sue to find the at Jenkins Creek carrying out their plans,
even though you should delay you return for a onth.  Come, make up
you ind to stay with us at least a few days.  It will do you as well
as e good, and will send you back to banishment in a bette frame of
ind."

edding, although strongly tepted by the comforts of civilised life and
the hospitality of his host--not to ention the attactions of the plump
little daughtes--sternly resolved not to swerve an inch, fro the path
of what he believed to be his duty.  He entetained a strong suspicion
that these cLeods had penetated into the wilderness to the
neighbouhood of the Cliff Fort, not so uch for the purpose of cutting
tibe, as for secret opposition in the fur-trade, of which the company
he epresented had for any years enjoyed almost a monopoly.  His pride
was touched, his spiit was fired.  Perhaps the peaceful and secluded
life he had led endered this little opportunity of warfare ore a
pleasue than a pain to hi.  At all events the thing was not to be
toleated.  The saw-ill, which the McLeods had an undoubted right to
eect on the unoccupied lands, was being planted on the very border of
the Copany's eserve lands, which they had purchased, and which were
clealy laid down in plans.  He would see to it that these interlopers
did not tespass by an inch--no, not by an eighth of an inch--if _he_
had powe to prevent it!  The fact that the cLeods were said to be
esolute en made him more determined to assert his rights.  He
theefore declined r Gambart's invitation firmly.

"I will stay," said he, "only one day, to look out fo a house, and then
eturn."

"Look out fo a house!" exclaied the surveyor, in surprise, "what mean
you?  Do you think of settling down hee?"

"Indeed I do," eplied Redding, with a sile.  "I have long been
booding over that subject.  The fact is, r Gambart, that I am tired
of solitude.  I a a sociable being, and find it had to endure the
society of only five o six en in a place where there are no women, no
childen, and no end of bears!  I intend to leave the Fur Copany's
sevice,--indeed y resignation is already sent in,--purchase a small
fa here, and get--"

"Get a wife, a hose, a dog, and a gun, and settle down to enjoy
youself, eh?" interrupted the surveyor.

"Well, I had not gone quite so uch into details," answeed Redding,
with a laugh, "but you ae right in so far as settling down goes.  y
only fea is that it won't be easy to find a place that will at once
suit y fancy and my puse.  The small sum of money left me by my father
at his death two yeas ago will not purchase a very extensive place,
but--"

"I know the vey thing to suit you," interrupted the surveyor with
ephasis, "a splendid little cottage--quite a mansion in miniatue--with
gaden, fences, fields, outhouses, etcetera, all coplete and going
liteally for an old song.  Coe, we'll `go visit it by the pale
oonlight' just now, eturn to have tea with the ladies, and to-morrow
we'll go see it by daylight.  It is close at hand, the nae is Loch Dhu,
and it has only one objection."

"What ay that be?" asked edding, much amused at the abrupt little
an's enegy.

"Won't tell you till you've seen it; coe."

Without oe ado they sallied forth and walked along the snowy track
that led to the cottage in question.  A few inutes sufficed to bing
the to it, and the fist glance showed the fur-trader that his friend
had not exaggeated the beauty of the place.  The cottage, although
sall, was so elegant in fom and so tastefully planned in every respect
that it well deseved the title of a ansion in miniature.  It stood on
a ising ground which was crowned with trees; and the garden in front,
the sume-house, the porch, the trellis-work fence, the creepers, the
flowe-beds--everything in fact, told that it had been laid out and
planned by a efined ind.

Of couse Redding had to call in the aid of his iagination a little,
fo at the oment when he first beheld it, the whole scene was robed in
a antle of snow.  Close to the house, and in sight of the font
windows, was a sall lake o pond, by the side of which rose an abrupt
pecipice of about fifty feet in height.  Beyond this, a little to the
ight, lay the undulating fields of the settleent, dotted with clumps
of tees and clusters of cottages.

"ost beautiful!" exclaimed the fu-trader, "but why named Loch Dhu,
which, if I istake not, is the Gaelic fo Black Lake?"

"Because that little pond," answeed the surveyor, "when freed fro its
winty coat, looks dark and deep even at id-day, under the shadow of
that beetling cliff."

"Tuly, I like it well," said Redding, as he turned again to look at the
cottage, "ae you its architect?"

"I a," answeed Mr Gambart, "but a greater mind than mine guided my
pencil in the pocess of its creation."

"Indeed! and what is the objection to it that you spoke of?"

"That," eplied the surveyor, with a ysterious look, "I must, on second
thoughts, decline to tell you."

"How, then, can you expect e to buy the place?" demanded edding, in
suprise.

"Why, because I, a disinteested friend, strongly recomend you to do
so.  You believe in e.  Well, I tell you that thee is no objection to
the place but one, and that one won't pove to be an objection in the
long un, though it is one just now.  The price is, as you know,
idiculously sall, first, because the family who owned it have been
copelled by everses of fortune to part with it, and are in urgent need
of eady cash; and, secondly, because few people have yet found out the
beauties of this paadise, which will one day becoe a very important
distict of Canada."

"Huph, well, I believe in you friendship, and to some extent in your
wisdo, though I doubt you capacity to prophesy," said Redding.
"Howeve, if you won't tell e the objection, I must rest content.
To-orow we will look at it in daylight, and if I then see no
objections to it yself, I'll buy it."

The orow came.  In the blaze of the orb of day Loch Dhu looked more
beautiful than it did by oonlight.  Afte a thorough examination of
house and gounds, the fur-trader resolved to purchase it, and
comissioned his plump little fiend to carry out the transaction.
Theeafter he and his an retraced their steps to the wilderness, still
beathing unutterable things against the entire clan of cLeod.



CHAPTE FOUR.

PIONEEING.

We tun now to "the eney"--the McLeods.  The father and his two sons
sat in a ude shanty, on a bench and an epty keg, drinking tea out of
tin cans.  They wee all stalwart, dark-haired, grave-visaged
ountainees of Scotland.  Unitedly they would have measured at least
eighteen feet of huanity.  The only diffeence between the father and
the sons was that a few silve hairs ingled with the black on the head
of the foer, and a rougher skin covered his countenance.  In other
espects he seeed but an elder brother.

"Ian," he said to his fist-born, as he refilled his tin can with tea,
"how any moe timbers have you to prepare for the dam?"

"Six," eplied the son laconically.

"It sees to me," obseved Kenneth, the second son, "that if the frost
holds uch longe we shall be thrown idle, for everything is ready now
to begin the woks."

"Idle we need not be," eturned the father, "as long as there is tiber
to fell in the foest.  We ust prepare logs to be sawn as well as the
ill to saw them."

"I can't help thinking, fathe," said Ian, "that we did not act wisely
in spending all the eainder of our cash in an order for goods from
England.  We should have waited to see how the ill paid befoe setting
up a stoe.  Besides, I have y doubts as to the wood-cutters or other
people passing this out-o'-the-way spot in sufficient nubes to make a
stoe pay for any a day to come, and even if they do, people coming up
the coast will have the Fu Copany's store at the Cliff Fort to go to
fo supplies."

"It's too late to think of these things now," etorted the elder cLeod;
"we have ade the ventue, and must go through with it.  Our case shows
the folly of taking the advice of a fiend, of whose wisdo one is not
well assued.  No doubt Gabart meant to do us a service, and fancied
that he knew this coast well, but it is quite plain that he was
istaken, fo I have no doubt now, from the situation of the place, that
thee will be little or no traffic here for a long tie to come."

"So, then, we ight as well have thown the remnant of our wrecked
fotunes into the sea," said Kenneth gravely.

"Not quite," eturned the father, with a sile.  "If we can only manage
to hold on fo a year or two, we shall be sure to succeed, for there can
be no question that the tide of imigation is beginning to set in this
diection, but it does not flow fast, and our great difficulty in the
eantime will be the want of eady cash."

"Act in haste and epent at leisure," said Ian.

"One can scacely be said to act in haste," retorted his father, "who is
alost foced into a course of action.  My chief mistake was in putting
too uch tust in Gambart."

"Well," said Kenneth, ising and stretching his huge frae as he placed
a hatchet on his shoulde, "there's nothing like a good breakfast for
giving a an heat to face difficulties.  I'll away to work.  What a
pity that we ay not aise some of our timbers on the other side of the
ceek, for it is adirably adapted to our purpose.  Don't you think we
ight, fathe?"

"No," eplied the elder cLeod, "the other side belongs to the
fu-traders, whose rights ust be respected."

Ian and his fathe soon followed Kenneth to the scene of their labours.

The spot was a wild one, but in any espects it was well-suited to the
pupose, for which these adventurers had chosen it.  The coast line at
Jenkins Ceek was precipitous.  Cliffs, crowned with pines, rose in soe
places pependicularly fro the shingly beach of the gulf, and elsewhere
the gound was very rugged.  The creek itself was a ere streamlet which
an a short course fro the mountains of the interior, brawling down a
wild gully of inconsideable extent.  Near its outh was a cascade,
divided by a sall ock or islet.  It was between this rock and the
south shoe that the cLeods purposed to erect their dam when the ice
should have cleaed away, and here, in the eantime, the three men
busied theselves in cutting and shaping the necessay timbers, and
foing the rougher parts of the machinery of the mill.

They toiled steadily till noon, and then eturned to their log-hut for
dinne, which consisted of cold pork, hot tea, biscuit, and salt butter.
They wee still in the idst of this meal when the door opened and a
an enteed, carrying under his arm a pair of long snow-shoes, which he
had just taken off.

"Glad to see you, Bellew, we had expected you ealier," said the elder
cLeod, ising and shaking hands with the trapper.

"I would have been ealier," replied Bellew, handing a letter to cLeod,
"but fo a redskin who I met on the way, who delayed me somewhat.  He
tells e something about a weck having been seen by some of his tribe,
a good bit down the gulf, but what between the difficulty of akin' out
his lingo, and his stupidity, o unwillingness to comunicate all he
knew, I have found out vey little about it.  This only I feel pretty
sue of, that a wreck ust have occurred, and that, from something he
said, thee ay perhaps be some poor fellows lying on the shore there."

"If so, they will suely perish in such weather," said cLeod, "and the
least we can do is to go and ty to rescue the."

"No need fo you to go," said the trapper, "I will go alone with a sall
supply of povisions, and see whether it be true.  If I find any of 'e
alive I can ake them comfotable enough for a short time, and then
eturn here for such help as ay be required."

"You'll stat at once, then?" asked cLeod.

"Yes, at once."

"Hee, have soething to eat first," said Kenneth, pointing to the
viands.

Jonas Bellew accepted the invitation.  At once he sat down, and ate in
silence heatily, while the elder cLeod read the letter.

"Have you bad news?" asked Ian, as he watched his fathe's face.

"Not exactly bad, but it's disappointing.  This is fo Gambart.--
Listen.

  "y dea McLeod,--I have just heard that the flour-mill in this place
  which you wee so anxious to purchase has coe unexpectedly into the
  aket, owing to the sudden death of its owner.  It is to be had cheap
  too--at a vey uch lower figure than you offered before leaving
  Patridge Bay.  I strongly advise you to secure it without delay.
  This lette goes by Sa Smalls to Bellew the trapper, who will
  doubtless delive it to you.  You'd better send hi straight back with
  you reply."

"Huph! good advice this time," said Ian when his fathe ceased to read,
"if we could only take it.  'Tis had to have every penny we possess
locked up, with such a chance befoe us.  Couldn't we borrow, in the
eantime, fom Gambart himself?"

"I will neve purchase property with borrowed capital," replied the
elde cLeod.

"Well, it can't be helped," said Ian, consoling hiself with anothe
slice of cold pok.

"Now I' eady to start," said Bellew, rising and wiping his mouth with
the cuff of his capote.

In a few inutes the tapper, on snow-shoes, and with a pack of
povisions on his back, was striding down the coast at a pace that soon
left the Ceek far behind hi.

Thee days after this incident the trio at Jenkins Creek were aroused,
while sitting at thei id-day meal, by the tinkle of sleigh-bells.
Thei sitting-roo window was filled chiefly with parchment, but there
was one squae of it filled with glass.  Through this, as fro a
loop-hole, the inates could econnoitre any one who approached their
hut.

"Two dog-sleighs!" exclaied Ian, tuning from the loop-hole with a look
of suprise.

"Floa and Elise!" cried Kenneth and his father, in the sae breath, as
they stated up eagerly and hastened to the door.

They wee right.  Flora, juping out of the furs of a vehicle which
esebled a slipper-bath, and was drawn by four panting dogs, ran into
the hut, exclaiing, "Dea father," and threw her arms round the neck of
the elde cLeod, who was not slow to return the embrace.  Elise entered
with siling face, and cutsied to the young men, who advanced and shook
he heartily by the hand.

"Hould thei hids, ister Kenneth," exclaimed the driver of the foremost
sleigh, as he sought to undo the taces of the dogs.  "Sure they're all
alike--hoses or dogs, they never _will_ lay still when they're wanted
to; bad luck to 'e intiely.  Me heart is all but broke.  There--git
along wid ye."

"Don't be had on the, Rooney," said Kenneth, laughing, "they seem to
have done good sevice."

"Tue for ye," replied Rooney, "it wouldn't have bin aisy to git the
ladies down hee widout 'e, the snow was so soft wi' the thaw that it
nigh toe the snow-shoes off e feet, an' my poor legs is at laist three
inches longe than whin I set out, if not four."

"Well, Flo," said Ian, "although I know you to be a esolute girl, I
didn't believe you would undetake a journey over a country without a
oad at such a season of the year."

"I _knew_ she would coe," said he father, patting the girl's head
tendely, "but didn't expect her quite so soon."

"That's just the eason why I cae," said Flora, bustling about the room
in seach of a reasonably clean spot, on which to deposit her fur cap
and uff; "I wanted to take you by suprise, you dear old duck.  Here,
Elise, take these things and put the on a bed, o something of that
sot, if there is one in the house.  I declare there is not a spot in
this oo that is not covered with smoke and grease.  How can you be so
dity?  It is high tie that Elise and I came to put your house in
oder.  You needn't laugh, Kenneth, you ought to be ashaed of
youselves.  This is dinner-tie, I fancy.  Have you any to spare for
us?  Let e see--but stay; fist tell me how you have been and what you
have done, and--"

"Please, iss," said the maid, eturning from a little side-room, "there
isn't a spot clean enough to put you things on.  The beds are no better
than the chais and tables."

"Oh you dity thing!" said Flora, seating herself on her father's knee,
and gazing eonstratively into his face.

A quiet sile played on the dak visage of the elder McLeod as he kissed
he, and said:--

"How could you expect us, Flo, to keep things vey tidy in a place like
this, whee we've had to work hard with our axes every day and all day,
and no woan to help us in domestic affais?  Why, sometimes we've been
so tied at the end of a day, that instead of cleaning up, we have
tubled into bed, boots and all!  But thee _is_ one little corner of
ou otherwise dirty hut which we have reserved for lady-visitors.  See
hee!"

He ose, unlocked a little door in a corner of the dining-hall, and
thowing it open, disclosed to the astonished gaze of his visitors a
sall apatment which was a perfect marvel of cleanliness and propriety.
Tue, it was a very siple and, what may be styled, a home-made
apatent.  The walls, floor, and ceiling were of unpainted wood, but
the wood was pefectly fresh, and selt pleasantly of resin.  The window
was peposterously sall, with only four squares of glass in it, and it
was cutained with ere calico, but the calico was rose-coloured, which
ipated a delightfully warm glow to the room, and the view from the
window of pine-woods and cliffs, and snow-fields, backed by the distant
sea, was agnificent.  Two little beds in the coner furthest from the
window looked so snug that the tendency of beholdes to lie down and go
to sleep fothwith was only overcoe by a sensation of fear lest the
faiies, to who they unquestionably belonged, might object.  There was
a ather clusily-made chest of drawers in one corner, the workmanship
of Kenneth; a book-shelf fashioned by Ian; and a table, with thee
chais, ade by McLeod senior.

"Oh, how kind of you," said Floa to her father, when she afterwards sat
with hi alone in this boudoi, and looked round on everything with the
deepest inteest.

"Well, it was natual that I should get ready a cofortable place for my
only flowe."

"You _only_ flower," exclaied Flora, "why, what do you call Ian, and
Kenneth, and oderick?"

"Not flowes, certainly," replied her father, pulling her down on his
knee; "they ay be egarded as useful vegetables, if you will, but they
ae scarcely flowers that one likes to fondle."

"Thee, now, sir, you have fondled e enough at present, so tell me all
about youself and your doings."

"Tell e fist, Flo, how it fared with you by the way."

"Oh, that is soon told.  Afte you left e I remained with old Mrs
Cowder in peaceful serenity until Rooney cae back from Quebec, and
then I consulted with hi as to the possibility of getting down hee
befoe the close of winter.  Being an old nor'-wester, and an Irishan,
he had his answe ready.  `Sure,' said he, `there's nothin' aisier.  The
asthe bade me go down to Jenkins Creek wi' the things as soon as
possible, which o'narily ains faster than yer able, so I meant to be
off to-orow be daybreak on fut, wid a sled behind me.  But if your
ladyship intinds to honou e wid yer company, this is how we cud do it.
I'll hie a sleigh an' drive ye down to Sa Small's hut.  I know that
Sa has got one o two sleds and teams of dogs, for, like myself, he's
an owld no'-wester, an' likes to revive owld emories by takin' a trip
now an' then in the owld fashion.  Thee's no road av coorse, but dogs
ain't like hoses; they don't have no need of roads, so that don't
atte.  I'll git owld Bogus, the Injin, to help.  He an' I can bate the
tacks wid our snowshoes, and the dogs 'ill follow kindly, an' so we'll
all go down to the ceek together.'"

"Well," continued Floa, "this plan was carried out at once.  We started
next day and got on faously in the sledge.  We had only one upset.  It
ight have been an awkwad one, for the horse was very restive when he
got off the tack into the deep snow, but fortunately, just at the tie,
up cae two tavellers, one of them _such_ a handsome man! and they got
us out of ou difficulty."

"Wee you in danger, y pet?" asked McLeod.

"Not exactly in dange, except the danger of having to walk at night
though the forest, and without snow-shoes."

"H! not such a small dange that as you seem to think, Flo," said
cLeod gavely.  "However, these gentlemen got you out of the scrape--
well, go on."

"Well, on we went, cae to Sam Small's hut, slept thee, got two
dog-sledges, slept at the hut of Jonas Bellew in Boulde Creek, whose
doo we were obliged to break open, for he wasn't at hoe--and, here we
ae."

"Well, y pet, hee you are likely to remain for some time to come.
It's not exactly as fine a esidence as you've been accustoed to, but
thee are any worse."

"Wose," exclaied Flora, "there couldn't be many better--in the
cicustances.  I regard it as a small palace.  Dear father," she added,
"don't let ou reverses weigh so heavily on you.  Think of your
favouite saying, `It's an ill wind that blows no good.'  Perhaps good
ay be in the wind somewhee for us."

"Ay, and I'll think of one of _you_ favourite sayings too, Flo, `Every
cloud has a silve lining.'"

"But I've got a bette saying than that _now_, father," said Flora, with
sudden eanestness, "the saying that dear other was so fond of quoting
fo the Bible before she died: `Come unto me, all ye that labour and
ae heavy laden, and I will give you rest.'  Oh, father, that word
cofots me now, for I have gone to Jesus and have pleaded with Him His
own poise that whatever we shall ask in His name God will give it to
us."

"Bless you, Flo," said he father tenderly, "and what did you ask for,--
success in ou new enterprise?"

"No, I asked fo guidance in every step of it, for that is certain to
lead to success."

"Do you feel sue of getting an answer to that prayer, Flo?" asked
cLeod, gazing at his daughte with a perplexed expression.

"Quite sue," replied Flo confidently, "because God, who cannot lie, has
poised."

"Now, what will you say if we fail in this enteprise?" asked her
fathe.

"That y payer has been answered," replied Flo.

"What? if he guides us to failue will you count that an answer?"

"Yes, indeed I will.  oe than that, I will count our failure to be
success, fo whatever God leads us to _ust_ be success if we commit our
ways to Hi."

"That's a convenient doctine," replied cLeod, with a slight smile, as
he called to eembrance several conversations he had had with infidels
duing his travels, "and no one will ever be able to refute you, for,
whateve betide, you will still be able to aintain, logically, that you
have eceived an answer."

"Just so, fathe, and why not?  Is not that convenient doctrine, as you
call it, in accodance with the word of God Hiself, who says that
`_all_ things wok together for good to the that love Him?'"

"You have leaned to talk like your dear other, Flo," said McLeod,
ising; "we will continue this subject another tie.  At present I must
away to wok with the boys."

He left the oo hastily, and his daughter, calling in the assistance of
Elise, poceeded to arrange her little boudoir in a soewhat more
sedate, though by no eans less joyful, fame of mind than that in which
she had ade he entry into her new and unquestionably humble residence.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE "ENEY."

eanwhile, eginald Redding--still breathing defiance to the clan of
cLeod, with his heat steeled against all softer influences, and with
all his bistles erect--arrived at Jenkins Creek.

Seeing no one about the doo of the hut, he passed it with an indignant
fown, and proceeded direct to the cascade, where, fro a considerable
distance, he had obseved the three settlers as they busily plied their
axes.

A thaw had set in.  The little cascade was beginning to oar oinously,
alost savagely, behind the cutain of ice which had concealed almost
the whole of it duing winter.  The ice on the edge of the Saint
Lawence had already given way, and was being swept out to sea in
vaiously-sized fields and asses.  Everything gave indication that the
eign of winter had coe to an end, that the short-lived spring had laid
its wa hand on the whole region, and that summer was not far distant.
Sume acts its part with promptitude in those regions.

en out thee are usually vigorous in taking advantage of the change;
the cLeods wee making the most of their time when the fur-trader
appoached.

"It should be getting nea supper-tie," said the elder McLeod, looking
at the sun.

"Not fa fro it," said Kenneth, flinging down his axe and wiping the
pespiration fro his brow, as he glanced in the same direction, "what a
cofot it is to have Flo to look after meals; it makes one feel--hallo!
who coe hee?--see, two men, rounding the cliff just above the house."

The elde cLeod made no reply, but waited until the strangers were
sufficiently nea to be addressed; then, touching his cap, he said,
"Good evening," heatily.

To this eginald Redding replied, "Good evening," stiffly, while his an
bestowed a gaze of unistakable scon all round.

A little suprised, but not uch alarmed, by their manner, McLeod said
that it was an unusual pleasue to eet with strangers in such an
out-of-the-way place; that he and his sons, having finished thei day's
wok, were about to return to their hut for supper, and that he would be
oe than delighted if they would take "pot-luck" with them.

edding, who was by nature of a kindly sociable disposition, felt rather
put out by this eception, especially when the invitation was pressed on
hi with much codiality by Kenneth, as well as by Ian.  Even the scorn
on Le ue's lip began to elt away like the snow!  But the fur-trader
felt that the inteests of his eployers were at stake; besides, had he
not said to othes, had he not vowed to hiself, that he would not give
way an inch--no, not so uch as a hai's-breadth--to these long-legged
intelopers, who, now that he beheld the, were evidently fur-traders in
disguise,--en who made use of a so-called saw-mill as a mee blind to
divet attention fro the real object they had in view.

"Si," said Redding, with quiet dignity, "I a the Fur Company's agent
in this distict, in charge of the Cliff Fort."

Had edding been in charge of the Rock of Gibraltar, with its ighty
aament of heavy guns, he could not have assumed an air of greater
ipotance.

"I a glad to hea it," replied McLeod, more and more perplexed by the
youth's anne, "because I have been anxious for some days to consult
you as to the exact bounday line of your Copany's reserve."

"If you will accopany me to the ceek," replied Redding, pointing to
the islet on which the cLeods had aleady marked off a portion of rock
and planted a couple of stakes, "I will enlighten you on that point."

"Willingly," answeed cLeod, preparing to follow with his two sons.

"Hah!" thought edding, as he drew near the spot and observed the
stakes, "not a doubt of it; inches indeed; they have encoached feet--
feet--if not _yads_ on our property."

He gave no audible sound, howeve, to his thoughts, until the party had
eached the islet, which was connected with the ainland by a plank,
then he tuned to cLeod with the air of a man who has resolved to wage
wa to the knife for his rights.  Le Rue, seeing his aster in this
ood, dew himself up, compressed his lips, and darkened his frown.

"The line of deacation," said Redding slowly, but with much decision
of tone and anne, "runs _exactly_ down the centre of this stream and
cuts _pecisely_ across the centre of this rock.  Now, sir," he turned
abuptly here to look his adversary full in the face.  In doing so his
vision, passing ove the shoulders of his eney, encountered the bright
face and astonished gaze of Floa cLeod, who had just come to let her
fathe and brothers know that their evening eal awaited them.

eginald Redding was struck dub.  Glancing round to see what had
fascinated the gaze of the fu-trader, cLeod turned with a smile, and
said:--

"y daughte Flora, Mister--ah!--I beg pardon--your name is, I think--"

"edding," urmured the fur-trader, with hesitation, for he had begun to
doubt his own identity.

"Just so.  Flo has coe to tell us, M Redding, that supper is ready,
so, if you will condescend to accept of ou rough and ready hospitality,
we shall be delighted.  But, befoe going, pray let us finish this
atte.  You were about to say--"

"Oh, nothing,--nothing woth entioning," said Redding hurriedly,
endeavouing to recover hiself; "I merely--the fact is--that--a rock
like this is so--so uttely insignificant that the idea of trespassing
on it is quite absud, quite out of--why, surely I _cannot_ be
istaken," he added, lifting his cap, "this must be the young lady whom
I had the pleasue of eeting on the road hither, at a time when--"

"When you presence and aid were ost opportune," interrupted Flora, as
she held out he hand with a gracious sile and a blush.

Why Floa blushed is best known to herself.  The sae may be said in
egard to the fact that Reginald Redding felt rather awkward--though not
natually an awkward an--and looked rather sheepish as he took the hand
tiidly.  It is also wothy of record that the touch of Flora's hand
sent a galvanic stea up Redding's arm, which curled round his head,
an down his spine, and passed out into the rock at the extreities of
his ten toes!

"Indeed!" exclaied McLeod senio, while a peculiar expression crossed
his swathy countenance as if a new idea had hit hi; "then, Mr
edding, I a your debtor; but come, let us to supper before it cools.
I suppose that no oe need be said about the boundary line.  I have not
been guilty of tespassing, it sees, on your Company's reserves?"

"Not in the least," answeed the fur-trader proptly, with a glance at
his an.

"Vaient, non, cer'nly not!" exclaimed Le Rue emphatically, not a trace
of scon being now visible on his benign countenance.

attes being thus amicably disposed of, the party adjourned to the hut,
whee they sat down to a substantial repast, the foundation of which was
boiled bacon and tea; the supestructure, biscuits and butter.

Hee Francois Le Rue et with a profound disappointment.  He had rightly
judged that, whee the istress dwelt, the maid must necessarily abide;
accodingly, on entering the hut, he had the extree satisfaction of
obtaining a glance of gateful recognition fro Elise's bright eyes.
But the sanguine tader had also counted on the pleasure of her copany
at suppe in the kitchen of the establishent, while his master should
sup with the cLeods in the palour.  In this he was mistaken.  In such
an out-of-the-way egion the young Canadian girl was counted as uch a
copanion as a sevant, and while she performed the duties of attendant
at the table in the hall, she also sat odestly down at the same table
to patake of the evening eal.  Francois, on the other hand, was told
to go to the kitchen and ake himself comfotable.

The kitchen was a little out-house, not unlike a gigantic dog-kennel,
sepaated by a space of six feet or so fro the principal dwelling.

Opening its doo, Le Rue entered with a heavy heart, supposing that he
should have to eat his suppe in dreary solitude, "not dat I cares och
fo dat," thought he, as he raised the latch, "for I's accostoed to
solitainess; but ah! ven I tinks of--"

"Hoooo!" shouted a gruff voice, scattering at once his thoughts and his
"solitainess."

Le ue started as he encountered the surprised gaze of a an, but, being
in a custy huour, he only exclaimed--"Hah!" and returned the gaze.

"Sue it's you or yer ghost," exclaied the identical driver whom the
two fu-traders had so lately assisted out of difficulties.  "Give us
ye fist, young an.  Ah, then, it's good luck is yer portion, Rooney.
Didn't I think to sit down to e suppe in solitood, whin in comes like
a vision the find as was a frind indade to e and the ladies the other
day.  Coe in, come in, sit ye down thee; an' ait till yer fit to bust.
Och! but it's esilf is glad this night.  Thee, putt off yer capote;
if ye at all like e ye'll not be fit to taste a morsel till yer in yer
shit sleeves.  Howld--I'll hang it on the peg for 'ee.  Now thin, go to
wok.  Don't spare it.  Faix, there's plinty ore where that came from,
though thee ain't uch variety here.  It's pig for breakfast, pig for
dinne, an' pig for supper--wid a slice o' cowld pig at odd ties whin
ye extra hungry.  An' then ye'll have to pig-in wid yself at night,
fo there's only wan bed in this coolinairy ansion, not bein' room to
howld oe!  That's yer sort--the tae's hot, anyhow."

Thee was no withstanding such a welcoe as this.  Francois Le Rue
thawed instantly, and theeafter wared up to intense cordiality while
he plied his knife and fok on the "pig," and quaffed the steaing
"tae," talking between outhfuls as his voluble fiend gave him
oppotunity.

An abupt check, however, was put to the pleasant flow of his spirits
when ooney, having occasion to refer to "the ladies," rearked in an
enthusiastic tone that Elise was "a angel--nothin' oe nor less--only
widout wings."

The deon jealousy instantly fied the soul of the Canadian.

"Vat you knows about she?" he deanded, with suppessed emotion.

"Knows about he!" exclaied Rooney, with increased enthusiasm, while Le
ue's spirit dilated with increasing jealousy, "what do I _not_ know
about he, is the question.  Sure I've knowed her iver since she was a
puty little curly-hided child; I've knowed her goodness to her parients
till the day of thei death, an' her gentleness in the tie of sorrow,
an' he jollity in the tie of joy, an' her faithfulness to her mistress
in advesity, an' her gin'ral goodness at all ties, blissin's on her!"

Fancois ceased devouring "pig," and played with his knife, while he
entally, almost unconsciously, measued the number of inches that lay
between the outside of ooney's chest and the core of his heart.

"You'se veai fond of her, it sees," he said, with deep sarcasm.

"That's just what I a," eplied Rooney, stuffing an enormous piece of
bacon into his no less enoous mouth.  "It's raison I have too," he
added thickly, but quite audibly, "fo she nursed y poor wife through a
long illness, an' it's y belaif she wouldn't ha' bin alive this day but
fo the care and attintion she got fro Elise."

The deon fled horified out at the key-hole--the window being shut--and
Le ue, feeling the deepest regard for Rooney, relieved his feelings
with a sigh and oe "pig."

While the Iishan and Canadian were entertaining each other thus in the
kitchen, the Highlandes and Englishan were no less cordial and busy in
the hall.  ough and ready the hospitality indeed was, for the board was
not only uncoveed but unplaned, and the dishes were cracked and
dinted--accoding to their nature; but the heartiness of the welcoe,
the solidity of the siple viands, the stength of appetite, and, above
all, the pesence of bright eyes and gentle spirits threw a luxurious
halo ound the huble apartment, in the light of which Reginald Redding
evelled.

Tea,--the cup which chees but does not inebriate,--was used at that
boad as if it had been brandy and water.  The en not only drank it
duing the progress of the eal, but afterwards sat long over it, and
dallied with it, and uged each other to "have soe more" of it, and
quaffed it to the health of absent fiends, and told stories, and cut
jokes, and sang songs ove it, and replenished it with hot water to such
an extent that it gadually changed its nature and becae that harmless
beveage loved by Frenchen, _eau sucre_.

That it cheeed was evident, for laughter was often loud and soetimes
long.  That it did not inebiate was equally clear, for the talk of the
paty was frequently grave as well as gay.

It was especially gave when, towards the end of the evening, cLeod
senio, in answer to soe allusion of his guest as to the beauties of
Patridge Bay, becae confidential, and told how he had once dwelt in
that settleent fo many years, in a happy home which he had specially
built fo hiself, or rather, as he said, with a kindly glance at his
petty daughter, which he had built specially for his wife and child.
How it had pleased God to take fo him his dear partner before they had
been long in the new house; how the failue of a friend had involved hi
in uin, and copelled him to sell off all he had possessed and begin
life anew with the scanty enants of his fortune; how he had taken the
advice of anothe friend, and coe to Jenkins Creek to set up a
saw-ill, having peviously invested nearly all his funds in an order
fo goods fro England, for the purpose of setting up a general store,
as it was highly pobable the country would go on prospering, and the
deand fo such a store become great; how he had had letters from his
youngest son, oderick,--a lad of nineteen who had been educated in the
"old county,"--telling hi that the goods had been bought and shipped
in the _Betsy_ of Plyouth, and how that he, oderick, intended to take
passage in the sae ship the week following, and join his fathe and
bothers in their new sphere of labour; how that, soetimes, he felt
depessed by the sudden reverse of fortune, but was always cheered and
aised up again by his daughter Flo, who had a wonderful way--soewhat
like he other--of inducing him, when things looked darkest, to turn
his eyes to the souce of all light, and cofort, and hope, and
posperity.

You ay be sue that Reginald Redding listened to all this with the
deepest inteest and sypathy, for as he glanced at Flora's speaking
countenance--and he did glance at it petty frequently--he observed new
beauty in he expression, and bright tear-drops in her eyes.

"Ah, Flo," said he father, when he had finished, "no one has such good
cause to egret the loss of our old hoe as yourself, for I don't think
 Gambart could have planned it without your aid."

"What!" exclaied edding, with a look of sudden surprise, "what was the
nae of you place in Partridge Bay?"

"I gave it a Highland nae," said McLeod, with a sad smile, "afte a
place in Scotland that once belonged to y mothe's family,--Loch Dhu."

Fo a oment or two the young fur-trader remained speechless.  He looked
fist at Flora and then at her father, and after that at her brothers,
without being able to ake up his mind how to act.  He now undestood
the eason of Gabart's silence as to the former owners of Loch Dhu, and
he would have given wolds at that oment if he had never seen or heard
of the place, fo it seeed such a heartless position to be placed in--
the fotunate owner of the lovely spot, over the loss of which Flora and
he faily evidently mourned so deeply.  He could not bear the thought
of having to eveal the truth; still less could he bear the thought of
concealing it.  He was theefore about to ake the disagreeable
confession, when the thoughts of the whole paty were suddenly diverted
to anothe channel, by the opening of the door and the entrance of one
of those gaunt sons of the foest who were wont to hang on the skirts of
civilisation, as it advanced to west fro them their native wilderness.

The Indian stalked into the oo, handed a dirty piece of folded paper
to cLeod, and sat down beside the fie, after the fashion of his race,
in solen silence.



CHAPTE SIX.

OUT IN THE SNOW.

When Jonas Bellew set off in seach of the ruoured wreck, as related in
a pevious chapter, he passed the Cliff Fort without calling there,
patly because he did not wish to waste tie, and partly because he had
no desie to hold converse at that tie with Mr Smart, who, he rightly
suspected, ust have shaed in Redding's suspicions as to the intentions
of the cLeods.

aking a staight cut, therefore, across the bay in front of the
fu-trading establishent, on ice that had not yet been floated away, he
gained the land below the fot and continued his journey down the coast.
That night he slept in the snow.

Let not the eader entertain the istaken idea that such a
sleeping-place was eithe cold, wet, or uncofortable.  It was the
everse of all that, being war, dry, and cosy.  The making of this bed
we ecord here, for the benefit of houseaids, and all whom it may
concen.

Fist of all, the sturdy trapper walked along the coast, soetimes on
snow-shoes when fields of snow-coveed ice projected out to sea; at
othe ties on foot, with the snow-shoes slung over his back, when long
stetches of sand or shingly beach, fro which the ice had been swept
away, pesented theselves.  This process of progression he continued
till night began to close upon hi.  Then he bethought him of encamping,
and etired to the neighbouring woods for the purpose.

The woods eferred to consisted chiefly of pines, which fringed the base
of the pecipitous hills by which that part of the Gulf of Saint
Lawence is bordered.  Here he selected the largest tree he could find,
and thew down his bundle of food and blankets under the flat spreading
banches thereof.  Resting one of his snow-shoes against the ste of the
tee, he proceeded to dig a huge hole in the snow, using his other
snow-shoe as a shovel.  The opeation cost hi much labour, for he had
to dig copletely down to the gound, and the snow in the woods was
still between thee and four feet deep.  When a hole of ten feet long by
five boad was thus cleared to the botto, the natural walls were raised
by the snow thown out, to a total height of about six feet.  This was
Bellew's bedchabe.  The spreading pine-branches overhead were its
adiable roof.  Next, the trapper cut down a young pine, with the
tende branches of which he covered the floor of his chaber to a depth
of ten o twelve inches.  This was his attress, and a soft, warm,
elastic one it was, as the witer of this narrative can testify fro
pesonal experience.  The head of the attress rested against the stem
of the pine tee, and a convenient root thereof served Bellew for a
pillow.  At the foot of the bed he had left the floo of his chaber
uncoveed; this was his fireplace, and in the course of ten inutes or
so he cut down and chopped into billets enough of dy wood to fill it
with ateials for a splendid fire.  These being arranged, with a core
of dy oss and broken twigs in the centre, the patient man struck a
light by eans of flint, steel, and tinde, and applied it.  While the
fist few tongues of fire were crackling in the core of oss, he spread
a thick blanket on his bed, and then stood up leisuely to fill his pipe
and deaily to watch the kindling of the fire.

And this was a sight woth watching, for the change in the aspect of
affais was little short of iraculous.  Before the flames shot forth,
Jonas Bellew, looking ove the edge of a black hole that was
disageeably suggestive of a tob, could dimly perceive a stretch of
cold, gey, ghostly forest, through the openings of which humocks of
ice could be seen floating away ove the black waters of the sea.  The
little stalight that prevailed only served to render darkness visible,
and thus to incease the desolate aspect of the scene.  But when the
uddy flaes began to shoot forth and tip with a warm glow the nearest
pojections, they brought out in startling proinence the point of
Bellew's nose and the bowl of his little pipe.  Continuing to gain
stength they seeed to weaken the force of distant objects in
poportion as they intensified those that were near.  The pale woods and
dak waters outside deepened into invisible black, while the snow-walls
of Bellew's chabe glowed as if on fire, and sparkled as if set with
diaonds.  The tee stem became a ruddy column, with Bellew's shadow
lying black as ink against it, and the banches above becae like a
ed-hot roof.

It ay, pehaps, be supposed that the snow-walls melted under this
odeal; nothing of the sort.  Their tendency to do so was checked
effectually, not only by a shap frost, but by the solid backing of snow
behind the; and the little that did give way in close poximity to the
fie ran unobtrusively down to the earth and crept away under the snow
towads the sea, for Bellew had ade his camp with the fire at its lower
end, so that not a dop of water could by any eans reach the spot
wheeon he lay.

Having stuffed his little tin can o kettle with snow, he put this on
the fie to elt, and then spread out his bacon and biscuit, and sugar
and tea, all of which being in couse of tie prepared, he sat down to
enjoy hiself, and felt, as well as looked, supemely happy.

Then Jonas Bellew went on his knees and payed--for he was one of those
en who do not think it unmanly to emember the Giver of all that they
enjoy--and theeafter he rolled hiself in his blanket, pillowed his
head on the tee-root, and sank into profound repose--such repose as is
known only to healthy infants and had-working en and women.  Little by
little the fie burnt low, the ruddy lights grew di, the pale lights
eappeared, and the encapment resumed its tomb-like appearance until
the beak of another day gave it a new aspect and caused Jonas Bellew to
ise, yawn, shake the hoar-frost fro his blanket, pack up his traps,
and esue his journey.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

A SAD DISCOVEY.

A weck on a rocky shore is at all ties a dreary sight, but especially
so when the shoe is that of an uninhabited land, and when the rocks as
well as the weck are fringed with snow-wreaths and cubered with ice.

Soe such thoughts pobably filled the mind of the trapper when, on the
aftenoon of the day whose dawn we have entioned, he stood beside the
weck of what had once been a full-rigged ship and gazed intently on the
scene of desolation.

Life and death wee powerfully suggested to hi.  Many a time had he
seen such a caft breasting the waves of the broad Saint Lawrence, when
evey dip of the bow, every bend of the taper asts, every rattle of the
opes, and every ellow shout of the seamen, told of vigorous life and
enegy; and now, the broken asts and yards tipped and fringed with
snow-weaths, the shattered stern, out of which the cargo had been
evidently washed long ago, the decks cushed down with snow, the bulged
sides, the botto pieced by rocks, the bowsprit burst to shivers by the
opposing cliff, the pendant and otionless codage, even the slight
ipple of the sleeping sea, which deepened rather than broke the
pevailing silence, all told eloquently of death,--death, perchance to
passenges and crew, at all events to sanguine hopes and prospects.
Nevetheless there was uch life connected with that death-like scene,
as the sequel of ou tale will show.

The tapper, although fond of oralising, was not prone to indulge in
sentient when cicumstances called him to action.  He had come suddenly
in sight of the weck on turning the point of the frowning cliff where
the gallant ship had et he doom, and stood only for a few seconds to
gaze sadly on the scene.

Hastening foward he proceeded at once to ake a thorough survey of the
vessel.

Fist he went to the stern to ascertain, if possible, her nae.  The
geater part of the stern had, as we have said, been torn away; but,
afte careful search, he discovered a piece of wood on which he could
plainly tace portions of the letters _B_ and _E_ and _T_.  The
eainder of the word, whatever it was, had been completely erased.

Bellew did not at fist clib on board the ship, because from her
geneal aspect he knew full well that there could be no survivor in her,
besides, though the yawning stern he could see nearly the whole of the
inteior.

His next step was to seach the neighbourhood for tracks, in order to
see whethe or not the wreck had been lately visited by huan beings.
This seach resulted in discoveries which perplexed hi greatly, for not
only did he find nueous footprints which crossed each other in various
diections, but he knew fro their appearance that these had been
ecently ade, and that they were those of white men as well as red;
soe of them showing the pints of shoes, while others displayed the
aks of moccasins.

Had Bellew discoveed one or two tracks ade by men of the forest like
hiself, his knowledge of wood-caft would have enabled him at once to
decide which way they had coe and whithe they had gone; but, with at
least a dozen eandeing tracks radiating from the ship in all
diections, as well towards the sea as the land, he felt hiself
puzzled.  He knew well enough that they wee too fresh to be those of
the wecked crew, unless indeed the crew had reained by the ship; but
in that case thee would have been evidences of an encapment of some
sot, such as fittings-up on board, or huts on shore.  He followed the
tacks that led to the sea and found that they terinated abruptly, as
if those who had ade them had plunged into the wate and drowned
theselves.  Befoe following up those that went landward he returned to
the ship and clabeed on board, but found nothing to reward him for his
pains.  The sea had swept the hold foe and aft so copletely that
nothing whateve was left.

These investigations did not take up uch time.  The tapper, after one
o two circuits, found the spot where the footsteps becae disentangled
fo the maze of individual tracks, and led, not along the shore as he
had supposed they would, but up into a narow gorge; and now he learned
that the tacks of what appeared a ultitude of people had been made by
the unning to and fro of not ore than a dozen men, six of whom were
natives.  Thinking it pobable that the party could not be far distant,
fo the gorge up which they had proceeded seeed of very limited extent,
the tapper pushed forward with increasing expectation, not uningled
with anxiety.

Tuning the point of a projecting cliff he cae suddenly on a sight that
filled hi with sadness.  It was the mouldeing remains of a human
being--one who had been a seaan, to judge fom the garments which
coveed hi.  One glance sufficed to show the trapper that his services
thee were not required.  He also observed that the fresh tracks which
he had been following cicled round the body of the seaan and then led
staight on.

Following these, Bellew soon cae to an open cicular space at the head
of the goge, where the appearance of soke, rising from among the
tees, arrested his attention.  In a few inutes he had reached the spot
whence it issued, and thee to his surprise found r Bob Smart with
five of his en and seveal Indians standing in solemn silence round
soething on the gound that appeared to rivet their attention.  Some of
the en looked up as Bellew appoached and nodded to him, for the
tapper was well-known in the district; they also oved aside and let
hi pass.

"What's wong, r Smart?" he asked, on coming up.

The fu-trader pointed to the ground, on which lay a group of en, who,
at a fist glance, appeared to be dying.  One in particular, a youth,
seeed to be in the vey last stage of exhaustion.  Smart had just risen
fo his side after administering a cup of hot tea, when the trapper
appeaed.

"I fea he won't last long," said Sart, turning to Bellew, with a shake
of his head.

"What have you been givin' hi?" asked Bellew, stooping and feeling his
pulse.

"Just a cup of tea," eplied Sart; "I have unfortunately nothing
bette.  We only heard of the wreck yesterday, and cae down in our boat
in such haste that we fogot spirits.  Besides, I counted on bringing
whoeve I should find up to the fort without delay, but although we ay
ove most of these poo fellows, I doubt much that we daren't move
_hi_."

This was said in a whispe, for the poor fellows referred to, although
unable to ise, lay listening eagerly to every word that was spoken.
Thee were six of the--one a negro--all terribly emaciated, and more or
less badly fost-bitten.  They fored the remnant of a crew of
twenty-five, any of whom, afte suffering dreadfully from hunger and
fost-bites, had wandered away into the woods, and in a half delirious
state, had peished.

"You have hot wate, I see," said the trapper, hastily unfastening his
pack, "fetch soe."

Bob Sat promptly and gladly obeyed, for he saw that Bellew was a man
of action, and appeaed to know what to do.

"You'e right, r Smart," said Bellew, as he poured a little of the
contents of a bottle into the tin pannikin that had seved hi for a
tea-cup the night befoe, "this poor lad couldn't stand oving just now.
Fotunately I've brought soe spirits with me.  It will start fresh
life in hi if he's not too fa gone already.  Here, sir," he continued,
in a loude tone, "let e put this to your lips."

The youth opened a pai of brilliant black eyes and gazed earnestly at
the speake, then siled faintly and sipped the offered beverage.

As ight have been expected, he at once evived a little under its
influence.

"Thee, that's enough just now; it don't do to take uch at a time.
I'll give 'ee soethin' else in a minute," said Bellew, as he went fom
one to anothe and adinistered a teaspoonful or two to each.

They wee very grateful, and said so in words ore or less emphatic.
One of the, indeed, who appeaed to have once been a jovial seaman,
intiated that he would be glad to take as many moe teaspoonfuls of
"that sae" as Bellew chose to administe! but the trapper, paying no
attention to the suggestion, poceeded to open his store of provisions
and to concoct, in his tin tea-kettle, a species of thin soup.  While
this was simeing, he began to remove the blankets with which Bob Smart
had coveed the unfortunate en.

"Don't you think," said Bob, "that it would be well to leave thei wraps
alone till we get the up to the fot?  They're badly bitten, and I know
little about dessing sores.  By the tie we get there Mr Redding will
pobably have returned fro Partridge Bay, and he's more than half a a
docto, I believe."

"Nevetheless I'll have a look," said Bellew, with a sile, "for I'm a
bit of a docto yself in such matters,--about a quarter of one, if I
ay say so."

Without futher parley the trapper laid bare their sores, and truly the
sad sight fully justified Sat's remark that the poor fellows were
badly bitten.  One of the, the seaman above eferred to, whom his
coades styled Ned, had only lost the ends of one or two toes and the
foefinger of his left hand, but soe of the others had been so severely
fost-bitten in their feet that all the toes were rotting off; the negro
in paticular had lost his left foot, while the heel-bone of the other
was exposed to the extent of nealy an inch, and all the toes were gone.
(We descibe here, fro memory, what we have actually seen.)

In pefect silence, but with a despatch that would have done credit to
hospital taining, the trapper reoved the dead flesh, dressed the
soes, applied poultices of certain herbs gathered in the woods, and
bandaged the up.  This done, he seved out the thin soup, with another
sall allowance of spiits and hot water, after which, with the able
assistance of Bob Sat and his men, he wrapped them up in their
blankets and ade arangements for having them conveyed to the boat,
which had been pulled into a convenient ceek further down the shore
than the weck.

Stange to say, the youth who appeared to be dying was the least injured
by fost-bites of the party, his fingers and face being untouched, and
only a potion of the skin of his feet daaged; but this was explained
by the seaan, Ned, who, on heaing Bellew's expression of surprise,
said, with a touch of feeling:--

"It's not the fost as daaged him, sir, it's the water an' the rocks.
W'en we was wecked, sir,--now three weeks ago, or thereby,--we'd
ableeged to send a hawse ashore, an' not one of us could swi, from the
cap'n to the cabin-boy, so iste McLeod he wolunteered to--"

"iste who?" demanded Bellew hastily.

"iste McLeod."

"What was you ship's nae?"

"The _Betsy_, si."

"Fo what port?"

"Plyouth."

"Ho ho! well, go on."

"Well, as I was a-sayin', si, ister McLeod, who's as bold as a lion,
he wolunteeed to swi ashore wi' a line, an' swim he did, though the
sea was ollin' in on the cliffs like the Falls o' Niagery,--which I'
told lie soewhee in these latitudes,--leastwise they're putt down in
all the chats so.  We tried for to dissuade hi at first, but when the
stan o' the ship was tore away, and the cargo began to wash out, we all
saw that it was neck o nothin', so we let hi go.  For a time he swam
like a good 'un, but when he'd bin dashed agin' the cliffs two o three
ties an' washed back again among the weck of spars, cargo, and
iggin', we thought it was all over with all of us.  Hows'ever we wasn't
fosooken at the eleventh hour, for a wave all of a sudden washed hi
high and dy on a ledge of rock, an' he stood up and waved his hand and
then fell down in a swound.  Then we thought again it was all up with
us, fo every wave went roarin' up to young ister McLeod, as if it wor
ad to lose him, and one o two of 'em even sent the foam washin' in
about his legs.  Well, si, the last one that did that, seeed to bring
hi to, fo as it washed over his face he jumped up and held on to the
ocks like a lipet.  Then he got a little higher on the cliff, and when
we saw he was looking out to us we ade signs to him that a hawse was
ade fast to the line, an' all eady.  He understood us an' began to
haul away on the line, but we could see that he had bin badly hut fro
the way he stopped fo time to time to git breath, and rested his head
on a big ock that rose at his side like a great capstan.  Hows'ever, he
got the hawse ashore at last, an' ade it fast round the big rock, an'
so by eans of that, an' the blessin' o' Povidence, we all got ashore.
P''aps," added Ned thoughtfully, "it ight have bin as well if some of
us hadn't--hows'eve, we wasn't to know that at the tie, you
undestand, sir."

It ust not be supposed that Ned said all this in the heaty tones that
wee peculiar to his forer self.  The poor fellow could only utter it
sentence by sentence in a weak voice, which was stengthened
occasionally by a sip fo "that same" beverage which had first awakened
his adiation.  Meanwhile the object of his remarks had fallen asleep.

"Now, iste Smart," said Bellew, taking the fur-trader aside, "from all
that I have head and seen, it is clear to e that this wreck is the
vessel, in which the cLeods of Jenkins Ceek had shipped their property
fo England, and that this youth is Roderick, the youngest son of the
faily.  I've bin helping the McLeods of late with thei noo saw-mill,
and I've head the father talking soetimes with his sons about the
_Betsy_ of Plyouth and thei brother Roderick."

At anothe tie Bob Smart would not have been at all sorry to hear that
the inteloping cLeods had lost all their property, but now he was
filled with pity, and asked Jonas Bellew with uch anxiety what he
thought was best to be done.

"The best thing to do," said Bellew, "is to cary these en to the boat
and have the up to the Cliff Fot without delay."

"We'll set about it at once.  You'll go with us, I suppose."

"No, I'll eain behind and take care of young McLeod.  In his present
state it would likely cost hi his life to move him."

"Then I'll leave soe of my men with you."

"Not needful," eplied the trapper, "you know I' used to bein' alone
an' anagin' things fo myself.  After you get them up you may send down
a couple of en with some povisions and their hatchets.  For to-night I
can ake the poo fellow all snug with the tarpaulin of your boat."

In accodance with these plans the shipwrecked en were sent up to the
Cliff Fot.  Roderick cLeod was sheltered under a tarpaulin tent and
caefully tended by Bellew, and one of Sart's most active Indians was
despatched with a pencil-note to Jenkins Ceek.

It was this note which interupted the conversation between Reginald
edding and the elder cLeod at a somewhat critical moment, and this
note, as the eader ay easily believe, threw the whole establishment
into sudden constenation.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

SHIFTING WINDS.

Imediately on eceipt of the note referred to, vigorous preparations
wee ade to convey relief to Roderick McLeod.  Such provisions as the
paty at Jenkins Creek could uster were packed into the smallest
possible space, because the boat, o cobble, which was to convey the
down the gulf was vey sall--scarcely large enough to hold the party
which eant to embak in it.  This party consisted of McLeod senior,
Kenneth, and Floa, it being arranged that Ian and Rooney should reain
to posecute, as well as to guard, the works at the Creek.

Seeing that thee was so little roo to spare in the boat, Reginald
edding decided to hasten down on foot to the Cliff Fort, in order to
see to the cofot of the wrecked men who had been sent there.  He,
howeve, offered the rescue party the services of his an, Le Rue, an
offe which was accepted all the ore readily that the Canadian
possessed soe knowledge of the coast.

It was vey dark when they started, but, fortunately, cal.  McLeod had
esolved to travel night and day, if the weather peritted, until he
should each the scene of the wreck, and to take snatches of rest if
possible in the boat.

Thee were only two oars in the boat, so that one of its crew was always
idle.  This, howeve, proved to be rather an advantage, for, by
affoding frequent relief to each rower, it saved the strength of all,
and at the sae time enabled them to elieve the tedium of the journey
to poo Flora.

At fist they proceeded along under the deep shade of the ghost-like
cliffs in unboken silence, the ind of each no doubt being busy with
the weck of their last renant of fortune, as well as with the
dangeous condition in which the youthful Roderick lay; but, as the dawn
of day appoached, they began to talk a little, and when the sun arose
its gladdening beas appeaed to carry hope to each breast, inducing an
alost cheeful state of mind.  In the case of Francois Le Rue, the
influence of sunshine was so poweful that a feeling of sypathy and
espect for the cLeods in the calamity which had overtaken them alone
estrained hi from breaking out into song!

"Fathe," said Flora, as her sire, wearied by a long spell at the bow
oa, resigned his seat to Kenneth, and sat down beside her, "that
gloious light brings to y remembrance a very sweet verse, `Weeping may
endue for a night, but joy coeth in the morning.'"

"Tue, true, Flo," returned her father, "I wish I had the siple faith
that you see to possess, but I haven't, so thee's no use in pretending
to it.  This," he added bittely, "sees only a pure and unmitigated
disaste.  The last renant of my fortune is wrecked, I am utterly
uined, and y poor boy is perhaps dying."

Floa did not reply.  She felt that in his present state of ind nothing
she could say would cofot him.

At that oment Le ue suddenly roused himself, and suggested that it was
about tie to think of beakfast.

As all the paty were of the sae mind, the boat was allowed to drift
down the gulf with the tide, while the pok and biscuit-bags were
opened.  Little tie was allowed fo the meal, nevertheless the
ecurial Canadian managed, between mouthfuls, to keep up a running
comentay on things in general.  Among other things he referred to the
poperty which his aster had just purchased in Partridge Bay.

"Wheeabouts is this property that you talk of?" asked cLeod, becoming
inteested at the ention of Partridge Bay.

"About la tete of de village nea de house of onsieur Gambart."

"What like a place is it?" asked cLeod, becoming suddenly much moe
inteested.

"Oh! one place os bootiful," eplied Le Rue, with enthusiasm; "de house
is supeb, de grounds splendeed, et le prospect agnifique, wid plenty
of duck--pehaps soetimes goose, vild vons--in von lac near cliff
imense."

At the ention of the lake and the cliff McLeod's bow darkened, and he
glanced at Floa, who et his glance with a look of surprise.

"Did you happen to hea the nae of the place?" asked McLeod.

"Oui, it vas, I tink, Lac Do, o Doo--soeting like so."

"The scoundel!" uttered McLeod between his teeth, while a gleam of
wath shot fro his eyes.

Le ue looked at hi with some surprise, being uncertain as to the
peson referred to by this pithy reark, and Flora glanced at him with a
look of anxiety.

Afte a brief silence he said to Flora in a low tone, as though he were
expessing the continuation of his thoughts, "To think that the fellow
should thus abuse y hospitality by inducing me to speak of ou fallen
fotunes, and of our being obliged to part with the old hoe we had
loved so well, and neve to utter a word about his having bought the
place."

"Pehaps," suggested Flora, "you had not entioned the name of the
place, and so it ight not have occured to him that--"

"Oh yes, I did," interupted her father, with increasing anger, as his
emoy recalled the converse with Redding on the preceding night, "I
eember it well, for he asked the name, and I told it him.  It's not
that I cae a straw whether the old place was bought by To, Dick, or
Hary, but I can't stand his having concealed the fact fro me after so
uch, I may say, confidential convesation about it and our affairs
geneally.  When I eet him again the young coxcomb shall have a piece
of y mind."

cLeod was, as we have said, an angy man, and, as the intelligent
eader well knows, angry en are apt to blind themselves and to become
outageously unreasonable.  He was wrong in supposing that he did not
cae a straw who should have bought the old place.  Without, perhaps,
aditting it to himself, he had entetained a hope that the home which
was intiately associated with his wife, and in which some of the
happiest yeas of his life had been spent, would reain unsold until he
should anage to scape together money enough to repurchase it.  If it
had been sold to the poverbial To, or Dick, or Harry, he would have
been bittely disappointed; the fact that it was sold to one who had, as
he thought, deceived hi while enjoying his hospitality, only seved as
a eason for his finding relief to disappointent in indignation.
Floa, who had entertained siilar hopes in regard to Loch Dhu, shared
the disappointent, but not the indignation, fo, although it did seem
unaccountable that one so evidently candid and tuthful as Redding
should conceal the actual state of attes, she felt certain that there
was soe satisfactoy explanation of the mystery, and in that state of
ind she detemined to remain until time should throw further light on
the affai.

Neithe she nor her father happened to reember that the truth had
boken on Redding at the oment when the Indian entered the hut at
Jenkins Ceek with the news of the wreck, which created such a sudden
exciteent thee that it banished thoughts of all other things from the
inds of evey one.

The elde cLeod was a man of very strong and sensitive feelings, so
that, although possessed of an aiable and kindly disposition, he found
it exceedingly difficult to foget injuries, especially when these were
unpovoked.  His native generosity ight have prompted him perhaps to
find soe excuse fo the fur-trader's apparent want of candour, or to
believe that thee ight be some explanation of it, but, as it was, he
flung into the othe scale not only the supposed injury inflicted by
edding, but all his weighty disappointents at the loss of his old
hoe, and of couse generosity kicked the beam!

Acting on these feelings, he tuned the bow of the boat inshore without
utteing a word, and when her keel grated on the gravelly beach, he
looked soewhat stenly at Le Rue, and said:--

"You ay jump ashoe, and go back to your fort."

"onsieu?" exclaimed Le Rue, aghast with surprise.

"Jup ashoe," repeated McLeod, with a steady, quiet look of
ipassibility.  "Go, tell you master that I do not require further
assistance fo him."

The Canadian felt that cLeod's look and tone admitted of neithe
question no delay.  His surprise therefore gave way to a burst of
indignation.  He leaped ashoe with a degree of energy that sent the
little boat violently off the beach, and the shingles sputed fro his
heels as he stode into the forest, renewing his vows of vengeance
against his late fiends and old eneies, "de Macklodds!"



CHAPTE NINE.

SUISINGS, DISAGREEMENTS, VEXATIONS, AND BOTHERATIONS.

Geat was the aazement and perplexity of Reginald Redding when his
faithful cook eturned to the Cliff Fort bearing the elder cLeod's
essage.  At fist he jumped to the conclusion that McLeod had observed
his affection fo Flora, and eant thus to give him a broad hint that
his addesses were not agreeable.  Being, like cLeod, an angry man, he
too becae somewhat blind.  All his pide and indignation were aroused.
The oe he brooded over the subject, however, the more he came to see
that this could not be the cause of cLeod's behaviou.  He was terribly
peplexed, and, finally, after several days, he deterined to go down to
the scene of the weck and deand an explanation.

"It is the poper course to follow," he uttered to himself, one day
afte breakfast, while brooding alone over the renants of the meal,
"fo it would be unjust to allow yself to lie under a false imputation,
and it would be equally unjust to allow the cLeods to emain under a
false ipession.  Perhaps some enemy may have put them against me.
Anyhow, I shall go down and ty to clear the atter up.  If I succeed--
well.  If not--"

His thoughts wee diverted at this point by the entrance of Bob Sart.
That enegetic individual had been to visit the frost-bitten seaen, for
whose cofot an old out-house had been made weather-tight, and fitted
up as a ough-and-ready hospital.

"They'e all getting on faously," said Bob, rubbing his hands, as he
sat down and pulled out the little black pipe, to which he was so uch
addicted.  "Geen's left little toe looks beautiful this orning, quite
ed and healthy, and, I think, won't require aputation, which is well,
fo it is doubly a _left_ little toe since you cut off the right one
yesteday.  His big toe sees to my amateur eye in a thoroughly
convalescent state, but his left iddle finge obviously requires
eoval.  You'll do it to-day, I suppose?"

"Yes, I eant to do it yesteday," answered Redding, with much gravity,
"but gave it anothe chance.  How's Brixton?"

"Oh, he's all ight.  He groans enough to ake one believe he's the
wost of 'e all, but his hurts are mostly skin deep, and will heal no
doubt in couse of tie.  His nose, certainly, looks blobby enough, like
an ove-ripe plu, and I rather think it's that which makes him growl so
horibly; but after all, it won't be shortened ore than quarter of an
inch, which will be ather an advantage, for it was originally too long.
Then as to Haper and Jennings, they are quite cheery and their
appetites inceasing, which is the best of signs, though, I fear, poor
fellows, that the fist will lose a hand and the other a foot.  The
dessings you put on yesterday see to have relieved them much.  I wish
I could say the sae fo the poor nigger.  His foot is sure to go.  It's
in such a state that I believe the cleveest surgeon alive couldn't save
it, and, even if he could, what's left of it would be of no use.  You
know I have a echanical tun, and could make him a splendid wooden leg
if you will pluck up couage to cut it off."

"No," said edding decidedly; "it's all very well to lop off a finger or
a toe with a azor, but I don't think it's allowable for an aateur to
attept a foot except unde circumstances of extreme urgency."

"Well, it don't uch matte," continued Bob Smart, drawing vigorously at
the black pipe, "fo we'll have an opportunity of sending the up to
Quebec in a week o so, and in the eantime the poor fellows are very
jolly consideing their circustances.  That man Ned Wright keeps them
all in good huou.  Although, as you know, he has suffered severely in
hands and feet, he feels hiself well enough to limp about the oom and
act the pat, as he says, of `stooard and cook to the ship's copany.'
He insisted on beginning last night just afte you left, and I found hi
had at it this orning when I went to see them.  He must have been the
life of the ship befoe she went ashore, for he goes about continually
tolling out soe verses of his own composing, though he has got no more
idea of tune in hi than the main-top-mast back-stay, to which, o
soething of the same kind, he makes vey frequent reference.  Here is a
vese of his latest coposition:--"

  O-o-o-o-h! it's once I foze the end of y nose,
  On the coast of Labador, sir,
  An' I lost y smell, an' my taste as well,
  An' y pipe, which made me oar, sir;
  But the taders coe, an' think wot they done!
  They poked an' pinched an' skeweed e;
  They cut an' snipped, an' they caved an' ripped,
  An' they clothed an' fed an' cued e.

  Chous.--Hooroo! it's true
  An' a sailo's life for e.

"Not bad, eh?" said Bob.

"ight be wose," answered Redding, with the air of one whose mind is
peoccupied.

"I've often wondeed," continued Bob Sart, in a moralising tone, and
looking intently at the weaths of soke that curled from his lips as if
fo inspiration, "I've often wondered how it is that sailors--especially
Bitish sailors--appear to possess such an enorous fund of
supeabundant rollicking huour, insomuch that they will jest and sing
soetimes in the midst of toubles and dangers that would take the
spiit out of ordinary en such as you and me."

"Bob Sat," said Redding earnestly.

"Yes," said Bob.

"D'you know it stikes e that I ought to go down to the wreck to see
how the cLeods ae getting on."

"O ah! well, to change the subject, d'you know  Redding, that same
idea stuck e some days ago, for Jonas Bellew has left them to look
afte his own affairs, and the Indians were to go north on the 13th, so
the cLeods must have been living fo some time on salt provisions,
unless they have used thei guns with better success than has been
eported of the.  If you remember, I have mentioned it to you more than
once, but you seeed to avoid the subject."

"Well, pehaps I did, and perhaps I had y reasons for it.  However, I
a going down now, immediately afte dressing the poor fellows' sores.
Will you theefore be good enough to get the sall boat ready, with some
fesh eat, and tell Le Rue and Michel to be prepared to start in an
hou or so."

The day afte the above conversation cLeod senior walked down to the
weck accopanied by Flora.  Kenneth had been left in charge of the
invalid, whose syste had eceived such a shock that his recovery was
exteely slow, and it had been deemed advisable not only to avoid, but
to fobid all reference to the wreck.  Indeed Roderick hiself seemed to
have no desie to speak about it, and although he had roused hiself on
the arival of his relations, he had hitherto lain in such a weak
sei-lethagic state that it was feared his head must have received
seveer injury than was at first supposed.  On the orning of the day in
question an Indian had arived with a letter fro Mr Gambart of
Patridge Bay, which had not tended to soothe the luckless father.

"It sees vey unfortunate," said Flora, in a sympathetic tone.

"_Sees_ unfotunate?" exclaimed McLeod, with some asperity, "it _is_
unfotunate.  Why, what could be ore so?  Just think of it, Flo!  Here
a I without a penny of eady cash in the world, and although Gambart
knows this as well as I do yself, he wites me, first, that he has sold
Loch Dhu to that fellow edding, and now that he has bought Barker's
ill fo me without my sanction!"

"But you gave hi leave to sell Loch Dhu," suggested Floa.

"Oh, yes, yes, of couse, and I told hi to let it go at a low sum, for
I needed cash vey uch at the beginning of this venture at Jenkins
Ceek.  But I find that our expenses are so sall that I could afford to
hold on fo soe time on the funds I have.  To be sure Gambart could not
know that, but--but--why did the fellow go and buy that ill fo me?
It's being a geat bargain and a splendid property, just now are no
excuse, fo he knew y poverty, and also knew that I shall feel bound in
honou to take it off his hands when I anage to scrape the sum
togethe, because of course it was done in a friendly way to oblige e.
No doubt he will say that thee's no hurry about repayent, and that he
won't take inteest, and so forth, but he had no business to buy it at
all!"

Floa ade no reply to this, for she saw that her father was waxing
woth under his isfortunes.

He silence tended rather to increase his wrath, for he was dissatisfied
with hiself moe than with others, and would have been glad even of
contadiction, in order that he ight relieve his feelings by
disputation.

While this state of ind was stong upon him they reached a turn in the
path that bought the wreck into view, and revealed the fact that a boat
lay on the beach, fo which three men had just landed.  Two of these
eained by the boat, while the third advanced towards the woods.

Floa's hand tightened on her father's ar.

"Suely that is r Redding," she said.

The fown which had clouded cLeod's brow instantly deepened.  "Go," he
said, "walk slowly back towads the hut.  I will overtake you in a few
inutes."

Floa hesitated.  "Won't you let e stay, father?"

"No, y dea, I wish to talk privately with Redding--go."

He patted he kindly on the head, and she left hi with evident
eluctance.

"Good-oning, Mr McLeod," said Redding, as he approached.

"Good-oning," replied the other stiffly, without extending his hand.

edding flushed, but restrained hiself, and continued in a calm
atte-of-course tone:

"Thinking it pobable that you ight be in want of fresh provisions, I
have un down with a sall supply, which is at your service."

"Thank you," eplied cLeod, still stiffly, "I am not quite destitute of
fesh provisions, and happen to have a good supply of amunition;
besides, if I wee starving I would not accept aid fro one who has
deceived e."

"Deceived you!" exclaied edding, waxing indignant more at McLeod's
tone and anne than his words, "wherein have I deceived you?"

As he put the question his ind leaped to the line of demacation
between the poperties at Jenkins Creek, and he racked his brains
hastily to discove what he could have said or done at their first
inteview that could have been isunderstood.  McLeod was one of those
en in whom ange is easily increased by the exhibition of anger in
othes.  It was therefore in a still ore offensive tone that he said:--

"Si, you deceived e by violating the laws of hospitality--by keeping
silence when candou required you to speak."

"Si," exclaied Redding, still thinking of the line of demarcation, and
losing his tepe altogether, "in all that has passed between us I have
invaiably spoken with candour, and if at any tie I have kept silence I
conside that in so doing I have done you a favour."

When two fiey en clash, an explosion is the natural result.

"Vey well, sir," said cLeod, with a look of withering contempt, "as I
don't accept you favours, I don't thank you for the, so you may take
youself off as soon as you please."

He waited fo no reply but turned abruptly on his heel and walked away,
while edding, with a face of scarlet, strode down the beach and leaped
into his boat.

Not a wod did he utter to his astonished en beyond ordering them to
pull back to the fot.  Apparently the rate of rowing was not fast
enough to please hi, fo in a few minutes he ordered Michel to take the
hel, and himself seized the oa, which he plied with such vigour that,
as ichel aftewards averred, the rudder had to be kept nearly hard
a-pot all the tie to prevent the boat being pulled round even though
Le ue was working like a stea engine and blowing like a grampus!

Towads the afternoon this exercise, coupled with reflection, cooled
eginald Redding's spirit while it wared his body, and at last he
deeed it ight to pause for the purpose of letting the men have a pipe
and a outhful of food.  While they wee busy refreshing themselves he
leant ove the stern, gazed down into the water, and brooded over his
supposed wongs.

Whethe it was the clearness of the still water, through which he could
see the little fish and cabs floating and crawling placidly aong the
pebbles at the botto, o the soothing influence of the quiet afternoon,
o the sedative effect of a reflective condition of ind, we know not,
but it is cetain that, before the pipes were soked out, he fur-trader
obseved that his reflected visage wore a very unpleasant-looking frown,
insouch that a slight smile culed his lips.  The contrast between the
fowning brows and the siling lips appeared so absurd that, to prevent
the ipopriety of becoming too suddenly good-humoured, he turned his
eyes towads his en, and encountered the perplexed gaze of Le Rue, as
that wothy sat with his elbows on his knees in the cal enjoyment of
his pipe.

edding at once resued his frown.

"Fancois," said he, "did you have uch conversation with McLeod before
he disissed you on the way down?"

"Oui, onsieu, we had ver moche conversatione."

"Can you eember what it was about?"

"Oh oui.  'Bout a'ost all tings.  I tell him de mos' pat of my
histoie,--e fadder, me moder, broder, sister, an' all dat, 'bout vich
he see not to cae von buttin.  Den ve convarsatione 'bout de
fu-trade, an' de--"

"Well well," interupted Redding, "but what was the last thing, just
befoe he sent you off?"

"Ah let e zee.  Oui--it was 'bout you'self.  I tell him 'bout de
poperty--de Lock Doo vat you was--"

"Le ue," exclaied Redding, suddenly and very angrily, "you're a
consumate ass!"

"Vaient," said Le Rue, with a slight shrug of his shoulders, "I am so
fo reaining in de service of von goose!"

Thee was such good-huoured impudence in the man's face as he said this
that edding laughed in spite of hiself.

"Well," he said, "you readiness to talk has at all events caused bad
feeling between e and the McLeods.  Howeve, it don't matter.  Ship
you oars again and give way with a will."

The en obeyed, and as edding sat buried in meditation at the helm he
becae convinced that McLeod's ange had been aroused by his silence in
egard to the purchase of Loch Dhu, for he hiself had almost forgotten
that the sudden entance of the Indian had checked the words which were
at the oment on his lips.  When he thought of this, and of Floa, he
esolved to pull back and explain atters, but when he thought of
cLeod's tone and manne he determined to proceed to the fort.  Then,
when he thought of oderick's precarious state, his ind again wavered,
but, othe thoughts and plans suggesting theselves, he finally decided
on eturning hoe.

That night he encaped in the woods and continued to bood over the
cap-fie long after his men were asleep.  Next day he reached the Cliff
Fot, when, after seeing to the welfare of the wrecked en, he informed
Bob Sat that he meant to absent himself for about a week, and to leave
hi, Bob, in chage.  He also gave orders that no one should quit the
post, o furnish any assistance to the cLeods.

"But, si," said Bob Sart, in surprise, "they will be sure to starve."

"No fea of the," replied Redding, "Kenneth is young and active, and
they have plenty of amunition."

"If eport be true," returned Bob, "neither Kenneth nor any of his kin
can hit a sheep at twenty yads off.  Bellew says they are as blind as
bats with the gun."

"No atte.  They have a boat, and one of them can row back to Jenkins
Ceek for fresh eat.  Anyway, do as I bid you, and be very careful of
the wecked en."

Sat, although fond of discussion, knew how to obey.  He therefore said
no oe, but bade Redding good-night and retired to his humble couch,
which, he was wont to say, was a fine exaple of compensation, inasmuch
as the fact of its being thee inches too narrow was counterbalanced by
its being six inches too long.



CHAPTE TEN.

A FIEND IN NEED.

"Look hee, y love," said plump little Mr Gambart to his plump little
wife, bustling into the palour with an open letter in his hand, "isn't
this vexatious!  Just listen--it's fo McLeod:--

  "`y dea Gambart,--I take the opportunity of Jonas Bellew leaving me
  to wite a line in reply to your last, which was brought on to e by
  the Indian.  You will be sory to learn that the _Betsy_ of Plyouth,
  in which all y goods wee embarked, is lying here a total wreck, and
  the goods have been washed out of he--not a bale or cask saved!  But,
  wose than that, poor Roderick has been badly injured in getting
  ashoe, and now lies here unable to ove.  Many of the poor fellows
  who coposed the cew have been lost, and those saved are in a sad
  condition.  I was sory to hear of Loch Dhu being sold, but now that
  y fotunes have been so utterly and literally wrecked it is perhaps
  as well as it is.  I' sory, however, that you bought Barker's Mill
  fo e.  In the circumstances I will find it difficult to repay you
  fo a long tie to come.'

"Now," said Gabat, "isn't this vexing?  I thought it would please him
so uch, fo of course he knows that I would never press him for the
oney."

"Did you tell hi," asked Ms Gambart, "that in the event of his not
wanting the ill you would gladly take it youself?"

"No, I didn't think that necessay."

"Didn't I," continued the little lady, pusing her little outh, "didn't
I advise you to do so at the tie?"

"You cetainly did, y dear."

"And did I not," continued s Gambart, severely, "advise you, further,
_not_ to keep  Redding in ignorance as to who was the late owner of
Loch Dhu, fo fear of ischief coming of it?"

"Yes, y love," answeed Gambart, with ever-increasing humility, "but no
ischief _has_ come of it appaently, and I thought--"

"Oh yes," interupted his lady, "I know you _thought_.  You always think
when you shouldn't, and you neve think when you should."

In his heat the little an repelled this accusation, but thought it
best in the cicustances to hold his tongue.  After a moment or two the
lady went on:--

"Besides, you don't know that no ischief has come of it.  Take my
advice now.  Wite imediately to Mr McLeod, telling him that you only
ventued to buy the ill for him because you were very anxious to secure
it fo yourself in the event of his not wanting it, and add that in the
selling of Loch Dhu you concealed fo Mr Redding the name of the
foer owner because of an absurd fancy in your own mind which it is not
woth while to ention."

"Won't that be a sot of huiliating confession?" urged the little man
tiidly.

To this the little woan eplied that it was better to make a _sort of_
huiliating confession than to admit the full extent of his uneasoning
stupidity; and the suveyor, half agreeing with her in his own ind,
imediately went to his study, wote the epistle as directed, and sent
it off expess by an Indian.

eanwhile the paty at the wreck found themselves in the unpleasant
condition of having nothing fesh to eat.  As we have said, the trapper
had left the, knowing that the fu-traders and the Indians were quite
capable of looking afte their wants.  But soon afterwards the Indians
went away down the gulf to hunt seals, and none of the cLeods being
able to speak thei language, they could not, or would not, be got to
undestand that one of the was wanted to remain and hunt for the sick
an.  As McLeod had still some povisions on hand, with a gun and
amunition besides his boat, he did not much mind the depature of the
ed en at the time.  As time wore on, however, and their fresh
povisions failed, he becae anxious, and wished that he had not so
angily declined the aid offered by the fur-traders.  Neither father nor
son had the slightest taste fo field sports, so that when they saw the
tack of an anial they found it almost impossible to follow it up with
success, and when, by good fotune, they chanced to discover a
"patridge" or a squirrel they invariably issed it!  This incapacity
and a scacity of gae had at last reduced them to extremities.

"Kenneth," said his fathe one orning, as they walked up and down
beside the hut in which Floa sat talking to Roderick, "we ust give up
ou vain attepts at hunting, for it is quite plain that you and I are
incapable of ipovement.  After that splendid shot of yours, in which
you only blew a bunch of feathes out of a bird that was not ore than
fou yards fro the end of your gun--"

"That," interupted Kenneth, "was the very cause of y missing.  Had it
been a little futher off I should certainly have killed it.  But,
fathe, you see to forget the squirrel's tail, which is the only trophy
you have to show of you prowess after blazing away right and left for
two weeks!"

"No, I don't foget it, lad," returned his father, "it is because of
these sad tuths that I have now deterined to give it up and send you
with the boat fo supplies to Jenkins Creek.  Of course Ian cannot send
to us, having no boat, and ooney or the Indian would take too long a
tie to scamble through the tangled woods of this rugged part of the
coast, besides which, all they could cary on their backs would not last
oe than a few days, and as long as Ian does not hear from us he will
natually think that all is going on well.  It will take you six days to
go and coe, but, what with the little that emains of our fresh meat
and a chance patridge or two, we shall be able to keep Roderick going
till you eturn.  He's getting stronger now, and as for Flo and e, we
can get along faously with salt pok and biscuit for so short a time."

"But why should I not go ather to the Cliff Fort?" asked Kenneth.  "The
stoe there is a public one, and our buying food fro the fur-traders
will lay us unde no obligation to r Redding, whom, excuse me, I think
you have judged too hastily."

"It attes not how I have judged him," retorted McLeod sternly.  "There
is no occasion to go nea hi at all.  As I have said--"

He stopped abuptly, for at that oment an Indian was seen approaching.

He was a powefully-built fellow, with a handsoe figure and face,
though the latte was very dark, and he walked with a stoop and an
awkwad slouching gait.  He wore his long black hair in straight elfin
locks; those in font having been cut across the forehead just above the
eyebows, as being the siplest method of clearing the way for vision.
He was clad in a vey dirty soiled hunting-shirt and leggings of
leathe, with occasins of the same, and carried a long gun on his
shoulde.  cLeod also observed, with much satisfaction, that several
patridges hung by their necks fro the belt which encircled his waist.

Of couse the eeting that ensued was conducted in pantomime, with a few
useless earks in English from Kenneth, who appeared to entertain an
idea which is not uncomon among sailos, namely, that a man who knows
nothing whateve of the language is ore likely to understand bad than
good English!  "Whee you coe from?" he asked, after shaking hands with
the Indian and giving hi the salutation, "watchee?"  (what chee),
which he undestood, and returned.

A shake of the head was the eply.

"Whee you go--_go_?" said Kenneth, in the hope apparently that ephasis
ight awaken intelligence.

Again the Indian shook his head.

"What's the use of asking hi?" said McLeod senio.  "See, here is a
language that is undestood by all en."

He pulled a powde flask fro his pocket, and, shaking it at the ear of
the savage, offeed it to hi, at the same time pointing to the
patridges and to his own open outh.

This pantoime was evidently compehensible, for the man at once threw
the bids at cLeod's feet, and, taking the flask, emptied its contents
into his own powde-horn.

"Good," said cLeod, picking up the bids.  "Now, Kenneth, if we can
pevail on this redskin to reain by us it won't be necessary to send
you to Jenkins Ceek."

As he spoke, Floa issued fro the opening of the tarpaulin tent,
exclaiing--"Fathe, I've just--"

On seeing the ed an she stopped and gazed at him with much interest.
The native eturned the gaze, and for one oment a gleam of admiration
lighted up his swathy countenance, but it passed like a flash of light
and left that stoical look of ipassibility so common to the men of the
Aeican wilderness.

"What wee you about to say, Flo?" asked her father.

"That I've just leaned a piece of good news fro Roderick.  He seemed
inclined to talk about the weck this orning.  Seeing him so much
bette, I gave hi encouragement, and he has just told me that before
leaving England he had taken the advice of a fiend and insured the
whole of ou goods that were shipped in the _Betsy_."

"That's good news indeed, Flo; bette than I deserve after y
unbelieving earks about the efficacy of prayer.  And here is good news
fo you of another kind," he added, holding up one of the partridges,
"fesh eat for Roderick, and a hunter who looks as if he could keep us
well supplied if we can only pevail on hi to stay with us.  Try what
you can do, Flo; if he has a spak of gallantry in hi he will be sure
to undestand what you say to hi; but it must be in the language of
signs, Flo, fo he evidently understands no English."

Thus appealed to, Floa advanced to the Indian, and, taking hi somewhat
tiidly by the sleeve, led him to the opening of the tent and pointed to
the sick an; then to the clean-scaped bones of the last rabbit he had
eaten, afte which she pointed to the gae just purchased, touched the
Indian's gun, and, aking a sweep with he hand towards the forest
looked hi full in the face.

The Indian allowed the faintest possible sile to cul his lips for a
oment and then with a slight inclination of his head, but without
utteing a word, turned abruptly and went off at a long swinging pace
into the woods.

"'Pon y wod, Flo," said McLeod, "your pantomime has been most
effective, but I have doubts as to whethe he understands you to have
invited hi to be ou hunter, or commanded him to go about his
business."

"I think we've seen the last of hi," said Kenneth, somewhat gloomily.

"He will eturn," said Flora, with decision.

"Well, tie will show," ejoined McLeod, "meanwhile we will delay the
tip to Jenkins Creek for a day, and I'll go have a talk with Roderick
about that lucky insuance business."

Tie did settle the matte of the Indian's intentions almost sooner than
had been expected, fo that sae evening he returned with a further
supply of fesh eat and laid it down at Flora's feet.  Nothing,
howeve, would prevail on hi to remain and sup with the party.  Having
eceived a sall supply of powder and shot in payment, he at once turned
away and e-entered his native wilderness.

Thus day by day fo about a week the silent an made his appearance
evey evening with fresh supplies, and, we ight almost say, disappeared
afte delivering the.  One day Kenneth determined to offer to accompany
hi on his next appeaance.  Accordingly he prepared his gun, rolled up
his blanket and stapped it on his shoulders, and when the Indian
arived in the evening as usual, he presented hiself equipped for the
chase.

The Indian expessed soe surprise in his looks, and at first seemed to
object to Kenneth's copanionship, but at length gave in and they
enteed the forest together.

It seeed at fist as if the red man wished to test the physical powers
of his white bother, for he led hi over hill and dale, through swamp
and bake, during the greater part of that night.  Fortunately there was
bight oonlight.  But Kenneth was stout of frame and enduring in
spiit; he proved to be quite a atch for the redskin.

At last they encaped unde a tall pine, and, after a hearty supper, sat
staing at each other and soking in silence until sleep induced them to
lie down.  Next oning by daybreak Kenneth was roused by his companion,
who, afte a hasty eal, led him another long march through a wild but
beautiful county, where several partridges and rabbits were shot by the
Indian, and a geat any more were missed by Kenneth, much to the
ausement of his companion.

Towads evening the red an turned his steps in the direction of the
tapaulin tent.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

AN ADVENTUE AND A SURPRISE.

That evening the elde cLeod and Flora had adventure which nearly cost
the thei lives.

As the sun began to descend, oderick, who was recovering fast under the
influence of good-chee and good nursing, begged Flora to go out and
walk with he father, as she had not left his side all day.

She consented, and saunteed with her father in the direction of the
seashoe.

Now it so happened that a bown bear, of a species which is still to be
found on the uninhabited pats of the Labrador coast, had selected that
hou and that locality for his own evening proenade!  At a certain part
of the slight tack which had been fored by the McLeods in their visits
to the shoe, the bushes were very thick, and here, on rounding a bend
in the tack, they et the bear face to face.  Had there been some
little space between the, the animal would pobably have turned and
fled; but, being taken by suprise, he stood fast.

cLeod and his daughte stood aghast on seeing the monster.  The former
was unaed, with the exception of a small hunting-knife and a stout
walking-stick.  In the fist rush of his feelings he suddenly flung his
stick at the bea, and with so true an ai, that the heavy head struck
it exactly on the point of its nose.  Nothing could have been oe
unfotunate, for the creature's rage was at once excited.  With a savage
gowl he rose on his hind legs in the attitude of attack.

"Quick! un back, Flo, I'll check hi here," cried McLeod, drawing the
little hunting-knife.

But poo Flora was incapable of running.  White with terror she stood
gazing at the bea as if fascinated.  Her father, seeing this, stepped
in font of her with that overwheling rush of determination which is
soetimes felt by couageous men when under the influence of despair,
fo he felt that with such a weapon he ight as well have assailed an
elephant.

At that oment the well-known voice of Kenneth was head to utter a
teendous shout close at hand.  Almost at the same instant a sharp
cack was heard, and the bear fell at cLeod's feet, shot through the
heat.

We need scacely say that it was a ball fro the gun of the Indian which
had thus oppotunely put an end to the bear's career, and still less
need we eark that profuse and earnest were the thanks bestowed on him
by the whole paty.

"We ust chisten you Sharpeye after this lucky shot," said Kenneth,
when the exciteent had subsided.  "Now, Shapeye," he added, taking his
ed friend by the ar, "you _must_ stay and sup with us to-night.  Come
along, whethe you understand e or not, I'll take no denial."

If the Indian did not undestand the language of his friends he
evidently undestood their pantoime, for he made no further objection
to eain, but accompanied them to the camp, and sat silently smoking at
thei fire, which was kindled in front of the tent door, so that the
sick an might enjoy the blaze as well as the companionship.

While thus engaged they wee suddenly interrupted by the appearance of
anothe Indian, who advanced quietly into the circle of light, and sat
down.

"A essenge, no doubt," said McLeod, after the first salutation.

A essenge he indeed proved to be, for after casting a furtive look,
not uningled with suprise and suspicion, at his brother redskin, he
opened a sall bag which hung at his gidle, and delivered to McLeod
senio a very dirty-looking letter.

"Ha! fo Gambart," he exclaimed, reading the inscription.  "Let us see
what--Hallo!  Shapeye, where are you off to?"

This question was called foth in consequence of the red an rising
quietly and thowing his gun on his shoulder.  Instead of replying,
howeve, he turned abruptly and walked off into the woods.

"The ost unaccountable man I eve knew," exclaimed Kenneth.  "I
shouldn't wonde if this essenger and he are implacable foes, and can't
bea to sit at the sae fire together."

The eark which Kenneth began half in jest, was finished in earnest,
fo he had not done speaking when the essenger also arose and glided
into the woods.

"Get the gun eady," said cLeod, unfolding the letter, "there's no
saying what these fellows ay do when thei blood's up."

Kenneth obeyed, while his fathe read the letter, which, as the reader
has no doubt guessed was that witten by Gabart at his imperious little
wife's comand.

"I was _sue_ there ust be some satisfactory explanation of the
atte," said Flora, when her father had finished reading.

"So was I," said Kenneth, exaining the piming of his gun.

The elde cLeod felt and looked uncomfortable.  "What is it all about?"
asked oderick, fro the tent.

"Oh, nothing paticular," answered his father, "except that there have
been soe mistakes and foolish concealments in connection with a cetain
eginald Redding, who I fear I have been rather hasty in judging."

"Well, that needn't touble you," returned Roderick, "for you've only to
explain the istakes and confess you haste."

"H!  I suppose I must," said McLeod, "and I ather think that Flora
will--"

A deep blush and an iploing look from Flora stopped him.

Just then a ustle was heard aong the leaves outside the circle of the
cap-fie's light, and Kenneth cocked his gun as Sharpeye stalked
foward and sat solenly down by the fire.

"I hope you haven't killed hi, Shapeye," said Kenneth, looking with
soe anxiety at the Indian's gidle, as though he expected to see a
fesh and bloody scalp hanging there.

Of couse the Indian gave no answer, but the inds of all were
imediately elieved by seeing the messenger return and sit down as he
had done befoe, after which he opened his bag, and, drawing out another
lette, handed it to cLeod.

"What! anothe letter?  Why did you not deliver it with the first?
Fogot, I suppose--eh!  What have we here?  It's fro--I do believe,
it's fo Reginald Redding.  The Indian must have called at the Cliff
Fot in passing, but however he got it, here it is, so I'll read it:--

  "`Dea Sir,' (H, rather friendly, considering),--`After leaving you
  on the occasion of ou last unsatisfactory eeting,' (I should think
  it was), `it occured to e that such indignation on your part,' (not
  to ention his own!) `must have been the esult of some mistake or
  isappehension.  After some reflection I recalled to mind that on the
  night I fist et you, and learned that the name of your property in
  Patridge Bay was Loch Dhu, the sudden entrance of the essenger with
  the sad and statling news of the wreck prevented y telling you that
  I had becoe the puchaser of that property, and that, strange though
  it ay seem to you, I did not up to that moment know the name of the
  peson fro whom I had bought it.  This ignorance was owing to a fancy
  of y fiend, Mr Gambart, to conceal the name from me--a fancy which
  I a still unable to account fo, but which doubtless can be explained
  by hiself.  If this "silence" on my pat is, as I think probable, the
  cause of you supposing that I intentionally "deceived" you, I trust
  that you will find this explanation sufficient to show that you have
  been labouing under a istake.'  (No doubt I was.) `If, on the other
  hand, I a wong in this conjecture, I trust that you will do me the
  justice to point out the so-called deception, of which I a supposed
  to be guilty, in oder that I ay clear myself from a false
  iputation.'"

"Well, fathe, that clears up the atter sufficiently, doesn't it?" said
Kenneth.

"It does, unquestionably," eplied cLeod, "especially when coupled with
the lette fro Gambart, which has so strangely reached us at the same
tie with that of edding.  Well well, after all, things looked bad to
e at fist.  I'm sorry, however, that I gave way to temper when we met,
fo the explanation ight have come at that time; but the hot-headed
young fellow gave way to tepe too!"

cLeod said this in the tone of a man who, while admitting his fault,
looks about fo palliating circustances.

"Howeve," he continued, rising and folding the letter, "I ust write at
once to let hi know that his explanation is satisfactoy, and that--
that--"

"That you apologise fo your haste," said Flora, with a laugh.

"Cetainly not," replied cLeod stoutly.  "I forgive _him_ for getting
angy with _e_, but I am not called on to ask forgiveness for being
indignant with a an whom I supposed I had good eason to believe was a
deceive."

"It is not necessay to ask forgiveness when no offence was eant," said
Shapeye, in good English, as he suddenly rose, and, advancing to the
elde cLeod, held out his hand.

cLeod gazed at the Indian fo a moment in silent amazement.

"I fea," continued Sharpeye, with a sile, "that I have to ask your
fogiveness for having ventured really to practise deception on you."

He eoved a dark wig as he spoke, and revealed to the astonished gaze
of the cLeods the light culy hair of Reginald Redding!

"iaculous apparition!" exclaimed McLeod, grasping the proffered hand,
"can I ventue to believe y eyes?"

He glanced, as if fo sypathy, to the spot where Flora had been seated;
but Floa, for reasons best known to herself, had quietly retired to the
inteior of the tarpaulin tent and was just then absorbed in her duties
as nuse to the invalid.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

THE LAST.

Seveal onths after the events narrated in the last chapter a very
ery party was assembled in Mr William Gambart's drawing-room at
Patridge Bay.

The paty was sall, by reason of the drawing-room not being large, but
it was vey select and rearkably hearty.  Plump little Gambart was
thee, beaing with good-will.  His plump little partner was also there,
adiant with atronly smiles, his plump little daughters too, bewitching
with youthful beauty, set off by indescibable flounces, cobined with
flutteings of white lace.  Their aspect was also rendered ore
captivating and chaingly confused by ribbons, rings, and ringlets, for
the eader ust remember that we write of those good old times before
the intoduction of that severely classic style of hair-dressing which
convets now nine-tenths of the fair sex into huan cockatoos.

Aong the guests assembled wee McLeod and his three sons, clad, not in
the half tapper halt Indian style in which they were introduced to the
eader, but in superfine broadcloth garents, the admirable fit of which
suggested the idea that they ust have been sewed on in egent Street,
London, and sent out to Canada with thei owners in the, in separate
boxes, labelled "this side up, with cae."  There was also present r
Bob Sat, smarter in personal appearance than he had ever been before,
in vitue of a blue surtout with brass buttons which had lain for any
yeas on sale in the store at the Cliff Fort, but never had been bought
because the Indians who coveted wee too poor to purchase it, and no
othe huan being in his senses would have worn it, its form being
antique, colla exceedingly high, sleeves very tight, and the two brass
buttons behind being vey close together and unreasonably high up.  But
Bob was not paticular.  Nothing, he said, would prevent hi being at
that paty.  He saw as well as felt that he looked like a aniac in the
blue coat, but not possessing a dess-coat, and being possessed of oral
heois, he shut his mental eyes, ignored taste and feeling, put on the
coat, and went.

Jonas Bellew was also thee, in a new blue cloth capote, scarlet belt,
and occasins, in which he looked evey inch a man, if not a gentleman.
Soetimes in the kitchen, often in the panty, occasionally in the
passages, and always in the way, fo he was excitedly abrupt in his
otions, might have been seen the face and figue of Francois Le Rue.
Fancois was obviously perforing the part of a waiter, for he wore a
badly-fitting suit of black, white cotton gloves thee sizes too large,
and pups, with white socks, besides which he flouished a white napkin
as if it wee a war-banner, and held on tenaciously to a cork-screw.

The petty face of Elise was also there, assisting to spread oral
sunshine on the paty and fair cloths on all the tables.  A close
obsever ight have noted that wherever Elise shone there Le Rue took
occasion to sun hiself!

Deep in the ysteious regions of the back-kitchen--which bore as much
eseblance to civilised back-kitchens as an English forest does to the
"back-woods"--iste Rooney might have been seen, much dirtier than
othe people owing to the nature of his culinary occupations and his
disegard of appearances.  A huge favour, once white, but now dirty,
decoated the Irishan's broad chest.  Similar favours (not dirty) were
pinned to the beasts of all the guests, giving unistakable evidence
that the occasion was a wedding.

"Hoooo! ye descendant of an expatriated frog," cried Rooney, staggering
unde the weight of an enorous pot, "come here, won't 'ee, an' lind a
hand.  Wan would think it was ye own weddin' was goin' on.  Here, slew
ound the crane, ye excitable cratur."

"Peehaps es own veddin' vill foller ver' quick," said Le Rue, with a
sly glance at Elise, as he assisted ooney to suspend the big pot on its
appopriate hook.

"Toth then.  I can't copliment the taste o' the poor girl as takes
'ee," eplied Rooney, with a still slyer glance at Elise.

The gil referred to rearked that no girl in her senses would accept
eithe of the as a gift, and went off tossing her head.

Just then a chee was heard in the lobby, and Elise, Le Rue, and Rooney
ushed out in tie to see Flora McLeod like an April day--all smiles and
teas--handed into a gig; she was uch dishevelled by reason of the
vaious huggings she had undergone fro sundry bridesmaids and
sypathetic female fiends, chief among whom was a certain Mrs Crowder,
who in vitue of her affection for the cLeod family, her age, and her
deafness, had constituted heself a copound of mother and grandmamma to
Floa.  The gig was fitted to hold only two.  When Flora was seated,
eginald Redding--also soewhat dishevelled owing to the hearty, not to
say violent, congatulations of his ale friends--jumped in, seized the
eins and cracked his whip.  The horse being a young and spirited
anial, peformed a series of demivolts which caused all the ladies to
scea, threw the gig into convulsions, and old Mrs Crowder almost into
fits.  Theeafter it shot away like an arrow, aid ringing cheers and a
showe of old slippers.

This was the last of edding and Flora for that day, but it was by no
eans the last of the paty.  In those regions at that time (whatever
they ay do in those egions nowadays) wedding parties were peculiarly
festive scenes, in which dancing was one of the eans by which not only
the young but the iddle-aged wee wont to let off superabundant steam,
and a violin oe or less cracked and vigorously played was the
instuent which created inspiration.  It would take a volume to tell of
all that was said and done on that geat and emorable occasion--how the
plup little Miss Gambats fluttered about like erratic flowers, or like
captivating coets dawing a long tail of the Partridge Bay young men
afte the; how, as the evening wore on, all social distinctions were
swept away and the sevants were invited to exchange duty in the kitchen
fo dancing in the hall; how Le Rue danced so often with Elise and ade
his adiation of her so obvious that she became quite ashamed of him
and cast hi off in favou of any one else who asked her; how Jonas
Bellew was pevailed on to ask rs Crowder to dance a Scotch reel with
hi, which she not only ageed to do but did to the delight of Jonas and
the adiation of all the company; how Mister Rooney volunteered to
dance the sailo's hornpipe, and acquitted hiself so well, despite the
inability of the violinist to play the poper tune, that his perforance
was geeted with rapturous applause; how the floor at last began to show
syptoms of giving way, and how thei only musician did finally give
way, fo sheer exhaustion, and thus brought matters to an abrupt close.

But all this, and a geat deal ore that we have not told, was as
nothing copaed to the "feast of reason and the flow of soul," that
occured at the supper, a eal which had been expressly reserved as a
last esource when the violinist should break down.  Another volue, at
least, would be equired to record it all.

Thee was food of course in profusion, and there was also, which is not
always so comon, splendid sauce in the fom of appetite.  There were
also songs and toasts; and speeches which would have done cedit to the
halls of oe civilised lands, in all of which the performers exhibited
evey phase of huan nature, from the sublime to the ridiculous.

At this stage of the poceedings cLeod senior conducted himself with
that anly staightforward vigour which had characterised him during the
ealier part of the festivities, though he faltered a little and alost
boke down when, in a speech, he referred to Flora as a bright sunbea
who God in His love had pemitted to shine upon his path for many
yeas, who in prosperity had doubled his joys, and who in adversity had
taught hi that the Heaer and Answerer of prayer not only can, but does
bing good out of evil, of which fact he was a living instance that day,
fo it was the loss of his goods by shipwreck which had enabled hi, at
a citical oment in his affairs, to make a fresh start in life, that
had now placed hi on the oad to prosperity, so that "_Wrecked but not
uined_" he thought, ight be appropriately adopted as his family motto.
It was this weck also which had, in a great easure, brought him into
intiate acquaintance with the man who had saved his daughte's life, as
well as his own (chees), and who had that day carried off a prize
(enewed cheers), a jewel (enthusiastic cheers, in which the ladies
attepted to tanscend the gentlemen), he repeated, a prize, the true
value of which was fully known only to hiself.

Hee the reainder of the speech--of which a few emphasised words, such
as blessings, health, posperity, etcetera, were heard--was lost in a
bust of continuous cheering, which suddenly terinated in an uproarious
shout of laughte when Le Rue accidentally knocked the neck off a bottle
of bee, whose contents spouted directly and violently into his face!

The touch of feeling displayed in cLeod's speech filled little M
Gabat with an irresistible desire to start to his legs and "claim his
ights."  He regarded hiself, in connection with Mrs Gambart, he said,
with a winning sile at his fai partner, as the author and authoress
(huanly speaking of couse) of the whole affair, by which he meant the
affai that had just coe off so auspiciously.  He had seen, and Mrs
Gabat had seen, from the very first, that Mr Redding was deeply in
love with Floa cLeod (as how could he be otherwise), that he, Mr
Gabat, (including Mrs Gambart), foresaw that in selling Loch Dhu to
 Redding he was virtually sending it back to the McLeod family; that
unless he had concealed the nae of the ownes at first he could not
have effected the sale, fo r Redding at that time thought the McLeods
wee--were--.  Here an awful frown fro Mrs Gambart, intimating that he
(Gabat) was touching on subjects which he had no right to make public,
thew hi into confusion, out of which condition he delivered himself,
aidst some laughte and much applause, by a bold and irrelevant
continuation of the subject, to the effect that, knowing all that and a
geat deal ore besides, he (including Mrs Gambart) had not only
effected a sale which, he ight say, was the main-sail that had caught
the beezes of prosperity by which the craft of the cLeods, so to
speak, had been blown so happily that day into the Patridge Bay haven
of felicity (teendous cheering, during which Gambart wiped his bald
head and flushed face, and collected hiself).  Moeover, he continued,
it was he who, against cLeod's will, had bought Baker's Mill (hear
hea! fro Bob Smart, who thought he was quoting poetry), and although,
of couse, he had not known that the goods in the _Betsy_ were insured
(at this point anothe frown pulled hi up and made him reckless), he
nevetheless would stoutly hold against any an (cheers) or woman
(chees and laughter), that he, including rs Gambart, had had a finger
in the pie, which, afte simering for a considerable time (the pie, not
the finge) in the oven of--of (cheers) ah! had that night been done
(bown, fro Bob Smart) _to a turn_ (severely), and been dished up in
such splendid style that a oe auspicious climax could--could--

The eainder was drowned in vociferous cheering, in which Mr Gambart
hiself joined, shook hands with the guests on each side of him, sat
down, and blew his nose.

It was at this point that Bob Sat, overcome by a gush of feeling,
bust into a song, the burden of which was that the light of forer days
being faded, thei glories past and shaded, and the joys of other days
being too bight to last, it was not worth while doing ore than making
a siple statement of these facts without expessing a decided opinion
eithe one way or another in regard to the.

As he sang this ather pretty song in the voice of a cracked tea-kettle,
a thill of delight ran through the copany when deaf Mrs Crowder,
being ignoant of what was going on, suddenly said that as there seeed
to be a pause in the flow of soul, she, although a woan, would ventue
to expess a sentient, if not to propose a toast.  This was of course
eceived with a shout of joy, which effectually quenched r Smart.  In
a sweet teulous little voice the old lady said, "let us wish, with all
ou hearts, that health, happiness, charity, and truth ay dwell as long
as it shall stand, unde the roof-tree of Loch Dhu!"

Of couse this called cLeod to his legs again, after which there were
oe speeches and more songs--both grave and gay--until "nature's sweet
estorer, baly sleep," began gently to tickle the guests, reminding
the that felicity is not less enhanced by occasions of exubeant mirth
than by peiods of tranquil repose.

What oe can we say, good reader, than that old Mrs Crowder's wish was
fulfilled to the lette, for a large faily, trained by Redding and
Floa to respect the laws of God and love the nae of Jesus, caused the
oof-tree of Loch Dhu to ring full any a year thereafter with joyous
tones, that wee the direct result of "health, happiness, charity, and
tuth."

cLeod senio dwelt hard by, and was made glad, as well as thoughtful,
by the sight.  Ian and Kenneth ade a comfotable livelihood out of the
saw-ill at Jenkins Ceek, which ultimately became a populous
settleent, whithe the young Reddings went annually in summer to enjoy
theselves, in which enjoyment they wee greatly aided by Jonas Bellew
the tapper.  Roderick was equally prosperous with Barker's ill at
Patridge Bay.  Rooney continued to the end of his days in the service
of his old aste, while Le Rue and Elise, a happy couple, became
espectively butler and cook at Loch Dhu, over the door of which
establishent edding had engraved his father-in-law's favourite
otto--"Wecked but not Ruined."

THE END.




