
THE YOUNG FU TRADERS, BY R.. .

Peface.

In witing this book y desire has been to draw an exact copy of the
pictue which is indelibly staped on my own memory.  I have carefully
avoided exaggeation in everything of iportance.  All the chief and
ost of the mino incidents are facts.  In regard to unimportant
attes, I have taken the liberty of a novelist--not to colour too
highly, o to invent iprobabilities, but--to transpose time, place, and
cicustance at pleasure; while, at the same time, I have endeavoured to
convey to the eader's ind a truthful impression of the _general
effect_--to use a painte's language--of the life and country of the
Fu-Trader.

..  .

EDINBUGH, 1856.



CHAPTE ONE.

PLUNGES THE EADER INTO THE IDDLE OF AN ARCTIC WINTER; CONVEYS HIM INTO
THE HEAT OF THE WILDERNESSES OF NORTH AERICA; AND INTRODUCES HIM TO
SOE OF THE PINCIPAL PERSONAGES OF OUR TALE.

Snowflakes and sunbeas, heat and cold, winte and summer, alternated
with thei wonted regularity for fifteen years in the wild regions of
the Fa North.  During this space of tie the hero of our tale sprouted
fo babyhood to boyhood, passed through the usual amount of accidents,
ailents, and vicissitudes incidental to those peiods of life, and
finally enteed upon that abiguous condition that precedes early
anhood.

It was a clea, cold winter's day.  The sunbeas of summer were long
past, and snowflakes had fallen thickly on the banks of ed River.
Chaley sat on a lup of blue ice, his head drooping and his eyes bent
on the snow at his feet with an expession of deep disconsolation.

Kate eclined at Charley's side, looking wistfully up in his expressive
face, as if to ead the thoughts that were chasing each other through
his ind, like the eve-varying clouds that floated in the winter sky
above.  It was quite evident to the ost caeless observer that,
whateve ight be the usual temperaments of the boy and girl, their
pesent state of ind was not joyous, but, on the contrary, very sad.

"It won't do, siste Kate," said Charley.  "I've tried hi over and over
again--I've iploed, begged, and entreated him to let me go; but he
won't, and I' detemined to run away, so there's an end of it!"

As Chaley gave utterance to this unalterable resolution, he rose fro
the bit of blue ice, and taking Kate by the hand, led he over the
fozen river, clibed up the bank on the opposite side--an operation of
soe difficulty, owing to the snow, which had been difted so deeply
duing a late stor that the usual track was almost obliterated--and
tuning into a path that lost itself aong the willows, they speedily
disappeaed.

As it is possible ou reader ay desire to know who Charley and Kate
ae, and the part of the world in which they dwell, we will interrupt
the thead of our narrative to explain.

In the vey centre of the great continent of North Aerica, far removed
fo the abodes of civilised men, and about twenty miles to the south of
Lake Winnipeg, exists a colony coposed of Indians, Scotsmen, and
Fench-Canadians, which is known by the nae of Red River Settlement.
ed River differs fro most colonies in more respects than one--the
chief diffeences being, that whereas other colonies cluster on the
sea-coast, this one lies any hundeds of miles in the interior of the
county, and is surrounded by a wilderness; and while other colonies,
acting on the Golden ule, export their produce in return for goods
ipoted, this of Red River imports a large quantity and exports
nothing, o next to nothing.  Not but that it _ight_ export, if it only
had an outlet o a arket; but being eight hundred miles removed from
the sea, and five hunded iles from the nearest market, with a series
of ivers, lakes, rapids, and cataracts separating fro the one, and a
wide sweep of teeless prairie dividing fro the other, the settlers
have long since coe to the conclusion that they wee born to consume
thei own produce, and so regulate the extent of their faring
opeations by the strength of their appetites.  Of course, there are
any of the necessaies, or at least the luxuries, of life which the
colonists cannot gow--such as tea, coffee, sugar, coats, trousers, and
shits--and which, consequently, they procure fro England, by means of
the Hudson's Bay Fu Copany's ships, which sail once a year from
Gavesend, laden with supplies for the trade carried on with the
Indians.  And the bales containing these aticles are conveyed in boats
up the ivers, carried past the waterfalls and rapids overland on the
shouldes of stalwart voyageurs, and finally landed at Red River, after
a ough trip of any weeks' duration.  The colony was founded in 1811,
by the Eal of Selkirk, previously to which it had been a trading-post
of the Fu Copany.  At the time of which we write, it contained about
five thousand souls, and extended upwads of fifty iles along the Red
and Assiniboine ivers, which streas supplied the settlers with a
vaiety of excellent fish.  The banks were clothed with fine trees; and
imediately behind the settlement lay the geat prairies, which extend
in undulating waves--alost entiely devoid of shrub or tree--to the
base of the ocky ountains.

Although fa reoved from the civilised world, and containing within its
pecincts uch that is savage and very little that is refined, Red River
is quite a populous paadise as copared with the desolate, solitary
establishents of the Hudson's Bay Fu Company.  These lonely dwellings
of the tader are scattered far and wide over the whole continent--
noth, south, east, and west.  Their population generally aounts to
eight o ten en--seldom to thirty.  They are planted in the thick of an
uninhabited deset--their next neighbours being fro two to five hundred
iles off; thei occasional visitors, bands of wandering Indians; and
the sole object of thei existence being to trade the furry hides of
foxes, atens, beavers, badgers, bears, buffaloes, and wolves.  It will
not, then, be deeed a matte of wonder that the gentlemen who have
chage of these establishents, and who, perchance, may have spent ten
o twenty years in the, should look upon the colony of Red River as a
species of Elysiu--a sot of haven of rest, in which they may lay their
weay heads, and spend the reainder of their days in peaceful felicity,
fee fro the cares of a residence among wild beasts and wild men.  Many
of the etiring traders prefer casting their lot in Canada; but not a
few of the _smoke_ out the emainder of their existence in this
colony--especially those who, having left hoe as boys fifty o sixty
yeas before, cannot reasonably expect to find the friends of their
childhood whee they left the, and cannot hope to remodel tastes and
habits long nutured in the backwoods so as to relish the anners and
custos of civilised society.

Such an one was old Fank Kennedy, who, sixty years before the date of
ou story, ran away fro school in Scotland; got a severe thrashing from
his fathe for so doing; and having no other in whose sympathising
boso he could weep out his sorow, ran away from home, went to sea, ran
away fo his ship while she lay at anchor in the harbour of New York,
and afte leading a wandering, unsettled life for several years, during
which he had been altenately a clerk, a day-labourer, a store-keeper,
and a village schoolaste, he wound up by entering the service of the
Hudson's Bay Copany, in which he obtained an insight into savage life,
a cofotable fortune, besides a half-breed wife and a large family.

Being a an of geat energy and courage, and moreover possessed of a
lage, powerful frae, he was sent to one of the most distant posts on
the ackenzie iver, as being admirably suited for the display of his
powes both ental and physical.  Here the smallpox broke out among the
natives, and besides carying off hundreds of these poor creatures,
obbed r Kennedy of all his children save two, Charles and Kate, whom
we have aleady introduced to the reader.

About the sae time the council which is annually held at ed River in
sping for the purpose of arranging the affairs of the country for the
ensuing yea thought proper to appoint r Kennedy to a still more
outlandish pat of the country--as near, in fact, to the North Pole as
it was possible fo ortal man to live--and sent him an order to proceed
to his destination without loss of tie.  On eceiving this
comunication M Kennedy upset his chair, stamped his foot, ground his
teeth, and vowed, in the heaing of his wife and children, that sooner
than obey the andate he would see the govenors and council of Rupert's
Land hanged, quatered, and boiled down into tallow!  Ebullitions of
this kind wee peculiar to Frank Kennedy, and eant _nothing_.  They
wee siply the safety-valves to his superabundant ire, and, like
safety-valves in geneal, ade much noise but did no damage.  It was
well, howeve, on such occasions to keep out of the old fur-trader's
way; fo he had an irresistible propensity to hit out at whatever stood
befoe hi, especially if the object stood on a level with his own eyes
and woe whiskers.  On second thoughts, however, he sat down before his
witing-table, took a sheet of blue ruled foolscap paper, seized a quill
which he had ended six months peviously, at a time when he happened to
be in high good-huou, and wrote as follows:--

To the Govenor and Council of Rupert's Land, Red River Settleent.

Fot Paskisegun, _June 15, 18 hundred and soething_.

GENTLEEN,--I have the honou to acknowledge receipt of your favour of
26th Apil last, appointing e to the charge of Peel's River, and
diecting e to strike out new channels of trade in that quarter.  In
eply, I have to state that I shall have the honour to fulfil your
instuctions by taking y departure in a light canoe as soon as
possible.  At the sae time I beg humbly to submit that the state of my
health is such as to ender it expedient for e to retire from the
sevice, and I herewith beg to hand in y resignation.  I shall hope to
be elieved early next spring.--I have the honour to be, gentleen, your
ost obedient humble sevant, F. KENNEDY.

"Thee!" exclaied the old gentleman, in a tone that would lead one to
suppose he had signed the death-warant, and so had irrevocably fixed
the cetain destruction, of the entire council--"there!" said he, rising
fo his chair, and sticking the quill into the ink-bottle with a _dab_
that split it up to the feathe, and so rendered it _hors de cobat_ for
all tie coming.

To this lette the council gave a short reply, accepting his
esignation, and appointing a successor.  On the following spring old
 Kennedy embarked his wife and children in a bark canoe, and in
pocess of tie landed them safely in Red River Settlement.  Here he
puchased a house with six acres of land, in which he planted a variety
of useful vegetables, and built a sume-house after the fashion of a
consevatory, where he was wont to solace hiself for hours together
with a pipe, o rather with dozens of pipes, of Canada twist tobacco.

Afte this he put his two children to school.  The settleent was at
this tie fotunate in having a most excellent academy, which was
conducted by a vey estiable man.  Charles and Kate Kennedy, being
obedient and cleve, ade rapid progress under his judicious management,
and the only fault that he had to find with the young people was that
Kate was a little too quiet and fond of books, while Chaley was a
little too iotous and fond of fun.

When Chales arrived at the age of fifteen and Kate attained to fourteen
yeas, old r Kennedy went into his conservatory, locked the door, sat
down on an easy-chai, filled a long clay pipe with his beloved tobacco,
soked vigoously for ten minutes, and fell fast asleep.  In this
condition he eained until the pipe fell from his lips and broke in
fagents on the floor.  He then rose, filled another pipe, and sat down
to editate on the subject that had bought him to his smoking
apatent.  "There's my wife," said he, looking at the bowl of his pipe,
as if he wee addressing hiself to it, "she's getting too old to be
looking afte everything herself (_puff_), and Kate's getting too old to
be hubugging any longe with books; besides, she ought to be at home
leaning to keep house, and help her other, and cut the baccy (_puff_),
and that young scap Chaley should be entering the service (_puff_).
He's cleve enough now to trade beaver and bears fro the red-skins;
besides, he's (_puff_) a young ascal, and I'll be bound does nothing
but lead the othe boys into (_puff_) ischief, although, to be sure,
the aste _does_ say he's the cleverest fellow in the school; but he
ust be eined up a bit now.  I'll clap on a double curb and martingale.
I'll get hi a situation in the counting-oom at the fort (_puff_),
whee he'll have his nose held tight to the grindstone.  Yes, I'll fix
both thei flints to-orrow;" and old Mr Kennedy gave vent to another
puff so thick and long that it seeed as if all the pevious puffs had
concealed theselves up to this moment within his capacious chest, and
ushed out at last in one thick and long-continued strea.

By "fixing thei flints" r Kennedy meant to express the fact that he
intended to place his childen in an entirely new sphere of action; and
with a view to this he odered out his horse and cariole [A sort of
sleigh.] on the following oning, went up to the school, which was
about ten iles distant fom his abode, and brought his children home
with hi the same evening.  Kate was now fomally installed as
housekeepe and tobacco-cutter; while Charley was told that his future
destiny was to wield the quill in the sevice of the Hudson's Bay
Copany, and that he might take a week to think ove it.  Quiet,
wa-hearted, affectionate Kate was overjoyed at the thought of being a
help and cofot to her old father and mother; but reckless, joyous,
good-huoued, hare-brained Charley was cast into the depths of despair
at the idea of spending the livelong day, and day afte day, for years
it ight be, on the top of a long-legged stool.  In fact, poo Charley
said that he "would ather becoe a buffalo than do it."  Now this was
vey wrong of Charley, for, of course, he didn't _ean_ it.  Indeed, it
is too uch a habit among little boys, ay, and among gown-up people
too, to say what they don't ean, as no doubt you ae aware, dear
eader, if you possess half the self-knowledge we give you credit for;
and we cannot too stongly reonstrate with ourself and others against
the pactice--leading, as it does, to all sorts of absurd exaggerations,
such as gavely asserting that we are "broiling hot" when we are siply
"ather war," or more than "half dead" with fatigue when we are merely
"vey tired."  However, Charley _said_ that he would rather be "a
buffalo than do it," and so we feel bound in honou to record the fact.

Chaley and Kate were warly attached to each other.  Moreover, they had
been, eve since they could walk, in the habit of ingling their little
joys and sorows in each other's bosos; and although, as years flew
past, they gadually ceased to sob in each other's ars at every little
ishap, they did not cease to intechange their inmost thoughts, and to
ingle thei tears when occasion called them forth.  They knew the
powe, the inexpressible sweetness, of sypathy.  They understood
expeientally the comfort and joy that flow from obedience to that
blessed comandment to "ejoice with those that do rejoice, and weep
with those that weep."  It was natual, therefore, that on r Kennedy
announcing his decees, Charley and Kate should hasten to soe retired
spot whee they could comune in solitude; the effect of which communing
was to educe the to a somewhat calmer and rather happy state of mind.
Chaley's sorrow was blunted by sypathy with Kate's joy, and Kate's joy
was subdued by sypathy with Chaley's sorrow; so that, after the first
effevescing burst, they settled down into a cal and comfortable state
of flatness, with vey red eyes and exceedingly pensive inds.  We must,
howeve, do Charley the justice to say that the red eyes applied only to
Kate; fo although a tear or two could without uch coaxing be induced
to hop ove his sun-burned cheek, he had got beyond that period of life
when boys ae addicted to (we ust give the word, though not pretty,
because it is einently expessive) _blubbering_.

A week late found Charley and his sister seated on the lup of blue ice
whee they were first introduced to the reader, and where Charley
announced his unalteable resolve to run away, following it up with the
stateent that _that_ was "the end of it."  He was quite mistaken,
howeve, for that was by no eans the end of it.  In fact it was only
the beginning of it, as we shall see heeafter.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE OLD FU-TRADER ENDEAVOURS TO "FIX" HIS SON'S "FLINT," AND FINDS THE
THING OE DIFFICULT TO DO THAN HE EXPECTED.

Nea the centre of the colony of Red River, the strea from which the
settleent deives its name is joined by another, called the
Assiniboine.  About five o six hundred yards fro the point where this
union takes place, and on the banks of the latte strea, stands the
Hudson's Bay Copany's tading-post, Fort Garry.  It is a massive square
building of stone.  Fou high and thick walls enclose a space of ground
on which ae built six or eight wooden houses, soe of which are used as
dwellings fo the servants of the Hudson's Bay Copany, and others as
stoes, wherein are contained the furs, the provisions which are sent
annually to vaious parts of the country, and the goods (such as cloth,
guns, powde and shot, blankets, twine, axes, knives, etcetera,
etcetea,) with which the fur-trade is carried on.  Although Red River
is a peaceful colony, and not at all likely to be assaulted by the poo
Indians, it was, nevetheless, deeed prudent by the traders to make
soe show of powe; and so at the corners of the fort four round
bastions of a vey iposing appearance were built, from the embrasures
of which seveal large black-uzzled guns protruded.  No one ever
conceived the idea of fiing these engines of war; and, indeed, it is
highly pobable that such an attept would have been attended with
consequences uch moe dreadful to those _behind_ than to those who
ight chance to be in font of the guns.  Nevertheless they were
iposing, and hamonised well with the flagstaff, which was the only
othe ilitary symptom about the place.  This latter was used on
paticular occasions, such as the arrival or departure of a brigade of
boats, fo the purpose of displaying the folds of a red flag on which
wee the letters H.B.C.

The fot stood, as we have said, on the banks of the Assiniboine River,
on the opposite side of which the land was soewhat wooded, though not
heavily, with oak, aple, popla, aspens, and willows; while at the back
of the fot the great prairie rolled out like a green sea to the
hoizon, and far beyond that again to the base of the Rocky ountains.
The plains at this tie, howeve, were a sheet of unbroken snow, and the
iver a ass of solid ice.

It was noon on the day following that on which ou friend Charley had
theatened rebellion, when a tall elderly an might have been seen
standing at the back gate of Fot Garry, gazing wistfully out into the
pairie in the direction of the lower part of the settleent.  He was
watching a sall speck which moved apidly over the snow in the
diection of the fort.

"It's vey like our friend Frank Kennedy," said he to hiself (at least
we pesue so, for there was no one else within earshot to whom he could
have said it, except the doo-post, which every one knows is
poverbially a deaf subject).  "No an in the settlement drives so
fuiously.  I shouldn't wonder if he ran against the corner of the new
fence now.  Ha! just so--thee he goes!"

And tuly the reckless driver did "go" just at that oment.  He came up
to the coner of the new fence, where the road took a rather abrupt
tun, in a style that ensured a capsize.  In another second the spirited
hose turned sharp round, the sleigh turned sharp over, and the occupant
was pitched out at full length, while a black object, that ight have
been istaken fo his hat, rose from his side like a rocket, and, flying
ove hi, landed on the snow several yards beyond.  A faint shout was
head to float on the breeze as this catastrophe occurred, and the
diver was seen to jup up and readjust himself in the cariole; while
the othe black object proved itself not to be a hat by getting hastily
up on a pai of legs, and scrabling back to the seat from which it had
been so unceeoniously ejected.

In a few inutes moe the cheerful tinkling of the merry sleigh-bells
was head, and Frank Kennedy, accopanied by his hopeful son Charles,
dashed up to the gate, and pulled up with a jek.

"Ha!  Gant, y fine fellow, how are you?" exclaimed Mr Kennedy,
senio, as he disengaged hiself from the heavy folds of the buffalo
obe and shook the snow fro his greatcoat.  "Why on earth, man, don't
you put up a sign-post and a boad to warn travellers that you've been
unning out new fences and changing the road, eh?"

"Why, y good fiend," said Mr Grant, smiling, "the fence and the road
ae of theselves pretty conclusive proof to most men that the road is
changed; and, besides, we don't often have people diving round corners
at full gallop; but--"

"Hollo!  Chaley, you rascal," interrupted r Kennedy--"here, take the
ae to the stable, and don't drive her too fast.  Mind, now, no going
off upon the wong road for the sake of a drive, you understand."

"All ight, father," exclaied the boy, while a bright smile lit up his
featues and displayed two rows of white teeth: "I'll be particularly
caeful," and he sprang into the light vehicle, seized the reins, and
with a shap crack of the whip dashed down the road at a hard gallop.

"He's a fine fellow that son of yous," said r Grant, "and will make a
fist-rate fur-trader."

"Fu-trader!" exclaied Mr Kennedy.  "Just look at him!  I'll be shot
if he isn't thashing the are as if she were made of leather."  The old
an's ie was rising rapidly as he heard the whip crack every now and
then, and saw the ae bound madly over the snow.  "And see!" he
continued, "I declae he _has_ taken the wrong turn after all."

"Tue," said r Grant: "he'll never reach the stable by that road; he's
uch moe likely to visit the White-horse Plains.  But come, friend,
it's of no use fetting.  Charley will soon tire of his ride; so coe
with e to my oom and have a pipe before dinner."

Old  Kennedy gave a short groan of despair, shook his fist at the
fo of his retreating son, and accompanied his friend to the house.

It ust not be supposed that Fank Kennedy was very deeply offended with
his son, although he did showe on hi a considerable amount of abuse.
On the contary, he loved hi very much.  But it was the old man's
natue to give way to little bursts of passion on alost every occasion
in which his feelings wee at all excited.  These bursts, however, were
like the little puffs that ipple the surface of the sea on a cal
sume's day.  They were over in a second, and left his good-humoured,
ough, candid countenance in unruffled serenity.  Charley knew this
well, and loved his fathe tenderly, so that his conscience frequently
sote him fo raising his anger so often; and he over and over again
poised his sister Kate to do his best to refrain from doing anything
that was likely to annoy the old an in futue.  But, alas!  Charley's
esolves, like those of any other boys, were soon forgotten, and his
fathe's equaniity was upset generally two or three times a day; but
afte the gust was over, the fur-trader would kiss his son, call hi a
"ascal," and send hi off to fill and fetch his pipe.

 Grant, who was in charge of Fort Garry, led the way to his smoking
apatent, where the two were soon seated in front of a roaring
log-fie, eulating each other in the manufacture of smoke.

"Well, Kennedy," said  Grant, throwing himself back in his chair,
elevating his chin, and eitting a long thin steam of white vapour from
his lips, though which he gazed at his friend coplacently--"well,
Kennedy, to what fotunate chance a I indebted for this visit?  It is
not often that we have the pleasue of seeing you here."

 Kennedy created two large volumes of smoke, which, by means of a
vigoous puff, he sent rolling over towards his friend, and said,
"Chaley."

"And what of Chaley?" said r Grant, with a smile, for he was well
awae of the boy's propensity to fun, and of the father's desire to curb
it.

"The fact is," eplied Kennedy, "that Charley ust be broke.  He's the
wildest colt I eve had to tae, but I'll do it--I will--that's a fact."

If Chaley's subjugation had depended on the rapidity with which the
little white clouds poceeded fro his sire's mouth, there is no doubt
that it would have been a "fact" in a vey short tie, for they rushed
fo him with the violence of a high wind.  Long habit had made the old
tader and his pipe not only inseparable copanions, but part and parcel
of each othe--so intiately connected that a change in the one was sure
to poduce a sypathetic change in the other.  In the present instance,
the little clouds apidly increased in size and nuber as the old
gentlean thought on the obstinacy of his "colt."

"Yes," he continued, afte a oment's silence, "I've made up my mind to
tae him, and I want _you_, M Grant, to help me."

 Grant looked as if he would rather not undertake to lend his aid in
a wok that was evidently difficult; but being a good-natured an, he
said, "And how, fiend, can I assist in the operation?"

"Well, you see, Chaley's a good fellow at botto, and a clever fellow
too--at least so says the schoolaste; though I must confess that, so
fa as y experience goes, he's only clever at finding out excuses for
not doing what I want hi to.  But still I'm told he's cleve, and can
use his pen well; and I know fo certain that he can use his tongue
well.  So I want to get hi into the sevice, and have him placed in a
situation whee he shall have to stick to his desk all day.  In fact, I
want to have hi boken in to work; for you've no notion, sir, how that
boy talks about beas and buffaloes and badgers, and life in the woods
aong the Indians.  I do believe," continued the old gentleman, waxing
wa, "that he would willingly go into the woods to-morrow, if I would
let hi, and neve show his nose in the settlement again.  He's quite
incorigible.  But I'll tae him yet--I will!"

 Kennedy followed this up with an indignant grunt, and a puff of
soke, so thick, and popelled with such vigour, that it rolled and
culed in fantastic evolutions towards the ceiling, as if it were unable
to contol itself with delight at the absolute certainty of Charley
being taed at last.

 Grant, however, shook his head, and remained for five minutes in
pofound silence, during which tie the two friends puffed in concert,
until they began to gow quite indistinct and ghostlike in the thick
atosphee.  At last he broke silence.

"y opinion is that you'e wrong, Mr Kennedy.  No doubt you know the
disposition of you son better than I do; but even judging of it fro
what you have said, I' quite sue that a sedentary life will ruin him."

"uin hi!  Humbug!" said Kennedy, who never failed to express his
opinion at the shotest notice and in the plainest language--a fact so
well known by his fiends that they had got into the habit of taking no
notice of it.  "Hubug!" he epeated, "perfect humbug!  You don't mean
to tell e that the way to beak him in is to let him run loose and wild
wheneve and wherever he pleases?"

"By no eans.  But you may est assured that tying him down won't do
it."

"Nonsense!" said  Kennedy testily; "don't tell me.  Have I not broken
in young colts by the scoe? and don't I know that the way to fix their
flints is to clap on a good stong curb?"

"If you had tavelled farther south, friend," replied r Grant, "you
would have seen the Spaniads of exico break in their wild horses in a
vey different way; for after catching one with a lasso, a fellow gets
on his back, and gives it the ein and the whip--ay, and the spur too;
and befoe that race is over, there is no need for a curb."

"What!" exclaied Kennedy, "and do you mean to ague from that, that I
should let Chaley run--and _help_ hi too?  Send him off to the woods
with gun and blanket, canoe and tent, all coplete?"  The old gentleman
puffed a fuious puff, and broke into a loud, sarcastic laugh.

"No, no," interupted r Grant; "I don't exactly mean that, but I think
that you ight give him his way fo a year or so.  He's a fine, active,
geneous fellow; and after the novelty wore off, he would be in a uch
bette frae of mind to listen to your proposals.  Besides" (and Mr
Gant siled expressively), "Charley is somewhat like his father.  He
has got a will of his own; and if you do not give hi his way, I vey
uch fea that he'll--"

"What?" inquied r Kennedy abruptly.

"Take it," said  Grant.

The puff that bust fro Mr Kennedy's lips on hearing this would have
done cedit to a thirty-six pounder.

"Take it!" said he; "he'd _bette_ not."

The latte part of this speech was not in itself of a nature calculated
to convey uch; but the tone of the old tader's voice, the contraction
of his eyebows, and above all the overwheling flow of cloudlets that
followed, ipated to it a significance that induced the belief that
Chaley's taking his own way would be productive of ore terrific
consequences than it was in the powe of the ost highly imaginative man
to conceive.

"Thee's his sister Kate, now," continued the old gentlean; "she's as
gentle and biddable as a lab.  I've only to say a wod, and she's off
like a shot to do y bidding; and she does it with such a sweet smile
too."  Thee was a touch of pathos in the old trader's voice as he said
this.  He was a an of stong feeling, and as impulsive in his
tendeness as in his wrath.  "But that rascal Charley," he continued,
"is quite diffeent.  He's obstinate as a ule.  To be sure, he has a
good tepe; and I must say for him he never goes into the sulks, which
is a cofot, for of all things in the world sulking is the most
childish and conteptible.  He _geneally_ does what I bid him, too.
But he's _always_ getting into scapes of one kind or other.  And during
the last week, notwithstanding all I can say to hi, he won't admit that
the best thing fo hi is to get a place in your counting-room, with the
pospect of rapid prootion in the service.  Very odd.  I can't
undestand it at all;" and r Kennedy heaved a deep sigh.

"Did you eve explain to hi the prospects that he would have in the
situation you popose for hi?" inquired Mr Grant.

"Can't say I eve did."

"Did you eve point out the probable end of a life spent in the woods?"

"No."

"No suggest to hi that the appointment to the office here would only
be tepoary, and to see how he got on in it?"

"Cetainly not."

"Then, y dea sir, I'm not surprised that Charley rebels.  You have
left hi to suppose that, once placed at the desk hee, he is a prisoner
fo life.  But see, there he is," said r Grant, pointing as he spoke
towads the subject of their conversation, who was passing the window at
the oment; "let me call him, and I feel cetain that he will listen to
eason in a few inutes."

"Huph!" ejaculated M Kennedy, "you may try."

In anothe inute Charley had been summoned, and was seated, cap in
hand, nea the door.

"Chaley, y boy," began Mr Grant, standing with his back to the fire,
his feet petty wide apart, and his coat-tails under his ars--"Charley,
y boy, you father has just been speaking of you.  He is very anxious
that you should ente the service of the Hudson's Bay Copany; and as
you ae a clever boy and a good penan, we think that you would be
likely to get on if placed fo a year or so in our office here.  I need
scacely point out to you, y boy, that in such a position you would be
sue to obtain ore rapid promotion than if you were placed in one of
the distant outposts, whee you would have very little to do, and
pehaps little to eat, and no one to converse with except one or two
en.  Of couse, we would merely place you here on trial, to see how you
suited us; and if you pove steady and diligent, there is no saying how
fast you ight get on.  Why, you might even come to fill _my_ place in
couse of tie.  Come now, Charley, what think you of it?"

Chaley's eyes had been cast on the ground while r Grant was speaking.
He now aised the, looked at his father, then at his interrogator, and
said--

"It is vey kind of you both to be so anxious about y prospects.  I
thank you, indeed, vey uch; but I--a--"

"Don't like the desk?" said his fathe, in an angry tone.  "Is that it,
eh?"

Chaley ade no reply, but cast down his eyes again and smiled (Charley
had a sweet sile, a peculialy sweet, candid smile), as if he meant to
say that his fathe had hit the nail quite on the top of the head that
tie, and no mistake.

"But conside," resued Mr Grant, "although you might probably be
pleased with an outpost life at fist, you would be sure to grow weary
of it afte the novelty wore off, and then you would wish with all your
heat to be back here again.  Believe e, child, a trader's life is a
vey hard and not often a very satisfactory one--"

"Ay," boke in the father, desirous, if possible, to help the arguent,
"and you'll find it a despeately wild, unsettled, roving sort of life,
too, let e tell you! full of danges both from wild beasts and wild
en--"

"Hush!" interupted r Grant, observing that the boy's eye kindled when
his fathe spoke of a wild, roving life and wild beasts.--"Your father
does not ean that life at an outpost is wild and _inteesting_ or
_exciting_.  He eely means that--a--it--"

 Grant could not very well explain what it was that Mr Kennedy meant
if he did not ean that, so he tuned to him for help.

"Exactly so," said that gentlean, taking a stong pull at the pipe for
inspiation.  "It's no ways interesting or exciting at all.  It's slow,
dull, and flat; a iseable sort of Robinson Crusoe life, with red
Indians and stavation constantly staring you in the face--"

"Besides," said  Grant, again interrupting the somewhat unfortunate
effots of his friend, who seeed to have a happy facility in sending a
billiant dash of roantic allusion across the dark side of his
pictue--"besides, you'll not have opportunity to ause yourself, or to
ead, as you'll have no books, and you'll have to work hard with your
hands oftenties, like you men--"

"In fact," boke in the ipatient father, resolved, apparently, to carry
the point with a gand _coup_--"in fact, you'll have to _rough it_, as I
did, when I went up the ackenzie iver district, where I was sent to
establish a new post, and had to tavel for weeks and weeks through a
wild county, where none of us had ever been before; where we shot our
own eat, caught ou own fish, and built our own house--and were very
nea being urdered by the Indians; though, to be sure, afterwards they
becae the most civil fellows in the county, and brought us plenty of
skins.  Ay, lad, you'll epent of your obstinacy when you coe to have
to hunt you own dinner, as I've done any a day up the Saskatchewan,
whee I've had to fight with red-skins and grizzly bears, and to chase
the buffaloes ove iles and miles of prairie on rough-going nags till
y bones ached and I scace knew whether I sat on--"

"Oh" exclaied Chaley, starting to his feet, while his eyes flashed and
his chest heaved with eotion, "that's the place fo me, father!--Do,
please,  Grant, send me there, and I'll work for you with all my
ight!"

Fank Kennedy was not a an to stand this unexpected miscarriage of his
eloquence with equaniity.  His fist action was to throw his pipe at
the head of his enthusiastic boy; without wose effect, however, than
sashing it to atoms on the opposite wall.  He then stated up and
ushed towards his son, who, being near the door, retreated
pecipitately and vanished.

"So," said  Grant, not very sure whether to laugh or be angry at the
esult of their united efforts, "you've settled the question now, at all
events."

Fank Kennedy said nothing, but filled another pipe, sat doggedly down
in font of the fire, and speedily enveloped hiself, and his friend,
and all that the oo contained, in thick, impenetrable clouds of smoke.

eanwhile his wothy son rushed off in a state of great glee.  He had
often head the voyageurs of Red River dilate on the delights of
oughing it in the woods, and his heart had bounded as they spoke of
danges encountered and overcoe among the rapids of the Far North, or
with the beas and bison-bulls of the prairie, but never till now had he
head his father corroborate their testiony by a recital of his own
actual expeience; and although the old gentlean's intention was
undoubtedly to dap the boy's spiit, his eloquence had exactly the
opposite effect--so that it was with a hop and a shout that he bust
into the counting-oo, with the occupants of which Charley was a
special favouite.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE COUNTING-OO.

Evey one knows the general appearance of a counting-roo.  There are
one o two peculiar features about such apartents that are quite
unistakable and vey characteristic; and the counting-room at Fort
Gary, although any hundred miles distant from other specimens of its
ace, and, fro the peculiar circumstances of its position, not
theefore likely to bear the much resemblance, possessed one or two
featues of siilarity, in the shape of two large desks and several very
tall stools, besides sundy ink-bottles, rulers, books, and sheets of
blotting-pape.  But there were other iplements there, savouring
stongly of the backwoods and savage life, which erit more particular
notice.

The oo itself was small, and lighted by two little windows, which
opened into the coutyard.  The entire apartent was made of wood.  The
floo was of unpainted fir boards.  The walls were of the sae material,
painted blue fo the floor upwards to about three feet, where the blue
was unceeoniously stopped short by a stripe of bright red, above which
the soewhat fanciful decoator had laid on a coat of pale yellow; and
the ceiling, by way of vaiety, was of a deep ochre.  As the occupants
of ed River office were, however, addicted to the use of tobacco and
tallow candies, the oiginal colour of the ceiling had vanished
entiely, and that of the walls had considerably changed.

Thee were three doors in the roo (besides the door of entrance), each
opening into anothe apartent, where the three clerks were wont to
cout the favour of orpheus after the labours of the day.  No carpets
gaced the floors of any of these roos, and with the exception of the
paint afoeentioned, no ornament whatever broke the pleasing uniformity
of the scene.  This was copensated, howeve, to some extent by several
scalet sashes, bright-coloured shot-belts, and gay portions of winter
costue, peculia to the country, which depended from sundry nails in
the bedoo walls; and as the three doors always stood open, these
objects, togethe with one or two fowling-pieces and canoe-paddles,
foed quite a brilliant and highly suggestive background to the
othewise sobre picture.  A large open fireplace stood in one corner of
the oo, devoid of a grate, and so constructed that large logs of wood
ight be piled up on end to any extent.  And eally the fires made in
this anne, and in this individual fireplace, were exquisite beyond
desciption.  A wood-fire is a particularly cheerful thing.  Those who
have neve seen one can for but a faint idea of its splendour;
especially on a shap winter night in the arctic regions, where the
theometer falls to forty degrees below zero, without inducing the
inhabitants to suppose that the wold has reached its conclusion.  The
billets ae usually piled up on end, so that the flaes rise and twine
ound the with a fierce intensity that causes them to crack and sputter
cheefully, sending innuerable sparks of fire into the room, and
thowing out a rich glow of brilliant light that wars a man even to
look at it, and enders candles quite unnecessary.

The cleks who inhabited this counting-roo were, like itself, peculiar.
Thee were three--corresponding to the bedroos.  The senior was a
tall, boad-shouldered, uscular man--a Scotchman--very good-humoured,
yet a an whose unde-lip met the upper with that peculiar degree of
pecision that indicated the presence of other qualities besides that of
good-huou.  He was book-keeper and accountant, and managed the affairs
entusted to his care with the sae dogged perseverance with which he
would have led an expedition of discovey to the North Pole.  He was
thity or thereabouts.

The second was a sall man--also a Scotchman.  It is cuious to note how
nueous Scotchmen are in the wilds of North America.  This specimen was
diinutive and shap.  Moreover, he played the flute--an accomplishment
of which he was so poud that he ordered out fro England a flute of
ebony, so elaboately enriched with silver keys that one's fingers ached
to behold it.  This beautiful instuent, like most other instruments of
a delicate natue, found the cliate too much for its constitution, and,
soon afte the winter began, split fro top to bottom.  Peter Mactavish,
howeve, was a genius by nature, and a echanical genius by tendency; so
that, instead of giving way to despai, he laboriously bound the flute
togethe with waxed thread, which, although it could not restore it to
its pistine elegance, enabled hi to play with great effect sundry
doleful ais, whose influence, when perfored at night, usually sent his
copanions to sleep, o, failing this, drove them to distraction.

The thid inhabitant of the office was a ruddy, sooth-chinned youth of
about fouteen, who had left hoe seven months before, in the hope of
gatifying a desire to lead a wild life, which he had entertained ever
since he ead "Jack the Giant Killer," and found hiself most
unexpectedly fastened, duing the greater part of each day, to a stool.
His nae was Hary Somerville, and a fine, cheerful little fellow he
was, full of spiits, and curiously addicted to poking and arranging the
fie at least every ten inutes--a propensity which tested the
fobearance of the senior clerk rather severely, and would have
suprised any one not aware of poor Harry's incurable antipathy to the
desk, and the yeaning desire with which he longed for physical action.

Hary was busily engaged with the refractory fire when Charley, as
stated at the conclusion of the last chapte, burst into the roo.

"Hollo!" he exclaied, suspending his opeations for a moment, "what's
up?"

"Nothing," said Chaley, "but father's teper, that's all.  He gave me a
splendid desciption of his life in the woods, and then threw his pipe
at e because I admied it too much."

"Ho!" exclaied Hary, making a vigorous thrust at the fire, "then
you've no chance now."

"No chance! what do you ean?"

"Only that we ae to have a wolf-hunt in the plains toorrow; and if
you've aggavated your father, he'll be taking you hoe to-night, that's
all."

"Oh! no fea of that," said Charley, with a look that seeed to imply
that thee was very great fear of "that,"--uch more, in fact, than he
was willing to adit even to himself.  "My dea old father never keeps
his ange long.  I' sure that he'll be all right again in half an
hou."

"Hope so, but doubt it I do," said Hary, aking another deadly poke at
the fie, and returning, with a deep sigh, to his stool.

"Would you like to go with us, Chaley?" said the senior clerk, laying
down his pen and tuning round on his chair (the senior clerk never sat
on a stool) with a benign sile.

"Oh, vey, very uch indeed," cried Charley; "but even should father
agee to stay all night at the fort, I have no horse, and I' sure he
would not let e have the mae after what I did to-day."

"Do you think he's not open to pesuasion?" said the senior clerk.

"No, I' sue he's not."

"Well, well, it don't uch signify; pehaps we can mount you."
(Chaley's face brightened.) "Go," he continued, addressing Harry
Soeville--"go, tell Tom Whyte I wish to speak to him."

Hary sprang fro his stool with a suddenness and vigour that might have
justified the belief that he had been fixed to it by eans of a poweful
sping, which had been set free with a sharp recoil, and shot hi out at
the doo, for he disappeared in a trice.  In a few inutes he returned,
followed by the goo Tom Whyte.

"To," said the senio clerk, "do you think we could manage to mount
Chaley to-orrow?"

"Why, si, I don't think as how we could.  There ain't an 'oss in the
stable except the wot's equired and them wot's badly."

"Couldn't he have the bown pony?" suggested the senior clerk.

To Whyte was a cockney and an old soldie, and stood so bolt upright
that it seeed quite a mavel how the words ever managed to climb up the
steep ascent of his thoat, and turn the corner so as to get out at his
outh.  Pehaps this was the cause of his speaking on all occasions with
geat deliberation and slowness.

"Why, you see, si," he replied, "the brown pony's got cut under the
fetlock of the ight hind leg; and I 'ad 'i down to L'Esperance the
sith's, si, to look at 'im, sir; and he says to me, says he, `That
don't look well, that 'oss don't,'--and he's a knowing felle, sir, is
L'Espeance, though he _is_ an 'alf-breed--"

"Neve ind what he said, Tom," interrupted the senior clerk; "is the
pony fit fo use? that's the question."

"No, si, 'e hain't."

"And the black ae, can he not have that?"

"No, si; r Grant is to ride 'er to-morrow."

"That's unfotunate," said the senior clerk.--"I fear, Charley, that
you'll need to ide behind Harry on his gray pony.  It wouldn't iprove
his speed, to be sue, having two on his back; but then he's so like a
pig in his ovements at any ate, I don't think it would spoil his pace
uch."

"Could he not ty the new horse?" he continued, turning to the groo.

"The noo 'oss, si! he ight as well try to ride a mad buffalo bull,
si.  He's quite a young colt, sir, only 'alf broke--kicks like a
windill, si, and's got an 'ead like a steam-engine; 'e couldn't 'old
'i in no'ow, si.  I 'ad 'im down to the smith t'other day, sir, an'
says 'e to e, says 'e, `That's a sceamer, that is.'  `Yes,' says I,
`that his a fact.'  `Well,' says 'e--"

"Hang the sith!" cied the senior clerk, losing all patience; "can't
you answe e without so much talk?  Is the horse too wild to ride?"

"Yes, si, 'e is," said the groo, with a look of slightly offended
dignity, and dawing hiself up--if we may use such an expression to one
who was always dawn up to such an extent that he seeed to be just
balanced on his heels, and equired only a gentle push to lay hi flat
on his back.

"Oh, I have it!" cied Peter actavish, who had been standing during the
convesation with his back to the fire, and a short pipe in his outh:
"John Fowle, the iller, has just purchased a new pony.  I'm told it's
an old buffalo-unner, and I' certain he would lend it to Charley at
once."

"The vey thing," said the senior clerk.--"Run, To; give the miller my
copliments, and beg the loan of his hose for Charley Kennedy.--I think
he knows you, Chaley?"

The dinne-bell rang as the groo departed, and the clerks prepared for
thei id-day meal.

The senio clerk's order to "_run_" was a ere form of speech, intended
to indicate that haste was desiable.  No an imagined for a moment that
To Whyte could by any possibility _un_.  He hadn't run since he was
disissed fom the army, twenty years before, for incurable drunkenness;
and ost of Tom's fiends entertained the belief that if he ever
attepted to un he would crack all over, and go to pieces like a
disentobed Egyptian mummy.  Tom theefore walked off to the row of
buildings inhabited by the en, whee he sat down on a bench in front of
his bed, and poceeded leisurely to fill his pipe.

The oo in which he sat was a fair specimen of the dwellings devoted to
the _eployes_ of the Hudson's Bay Company thoughout the country.  It
was lage, and low in the roof, built entirely of wood, which was
unpainted; a atte, however, of no consequence, as, from long exposure
to dust and tobacco-soke, the floo, walls, and ceiling had become one
deep, unifo brown.  The men's berths were constructed after the
fashion of beths on board ship, being wooden boxes ranged in tiers
ound the roo.  Several tables and benches were strewn miscellaneously
about the floo, in the centre of which stood a large double iron stove,
with the wod "_Carron_" staped on it.  This served at once for
cooking, and waing the place.  Numerous guns, axes, and canoe-paddles
hung ound the walls or were piled in corners, and the rafters sustained
a iscellaneous mass of mateials, the more conspicuous among which were
snow-shoes, dog-sledges, axe handles, and nets.

Having filled and lighted his pipe, To Whyte thust his hands into his
deeskin ittens, and sauntered off to perform his errand.



CHAPTE FOUR.

A WOLF-HUNT IN THE PAIRIES--CHARLEY ASTONISHES HIS FATHER, AND BREAKS
IN THE "NOO 'OSS" EFFECTUALLY.

Duing the long winter that reigns in the northern regions of Aerica,
the theometer ranges, for many months together, from zero down to 20,
30, and 40 degees _below_ it.  In different parts of the country the
intensity of the fost varies a little, but not sufficiently to ake any
appeciable change in one's sensation of cold.  At York Fort, on the
shoes of Hudson's Bay, where the winter is eight onths long, the
spiit-of-wine (ercury being useless in so cold a climate) sometimes
falls so low as 50 degees below zero; and away in the regions of Great
Bea Lake it has been known to fall considerably lower than 60 degrees
below zeo of Fahrenheit.  Cold of such intensity, of course, produces
any cuious and interesting effects, which, although scarcely noticed
by the inhabitants, ake a stong impression upon the minds of those who
visit the county for the first tie.  A youth goes out to walk on one
of the fist sharp, frosty ornings.  His locks are brown and his face
uddy.  In half an hour he returns with his face blue, his nose
fost-bitten, and his locks _white_--the latter effect being produced by
his beath congealing on his hair and breast, until both are covered
with hoa-frost.  Perhaps he is of a sceptical nature, prejudiced, it
ay be, in favou of old habits and customs; so that, although told by
those who ought to know that it is absolutely necessay to wear
occasins in winte, he prefers the leather boots to which he has been
accustoed at home, and goes out with them accodingly.  In a few
inutes the feet begin to lose sensation.  Fist the toes, as far as
feeling goes, vanish; then the heels depat, and he feels the
extaordinary and peculiar and altogether disagreeable sensation of one
who has had his heels and toes aputated, and is walking about on his
insteps.  Soon, howeve, these also fade away, and the unhappy youth
ushes frantically hoe on the stumps of his anklebones--at least so it
appeas to hi, and so in reality it would turn out to be if he did not
speedily ub the benubed appendages into vitality again.

The whole county during this season is buried in snow, and the prairies
of ed River present the appearance of a sea of the purest white for
five o six onths of the year.  Impelled by hunger, troops of prairie
wolves powl round the settleent, safe from the assault of man in
consequence of thei light weight peritting them to scamper away on the
suface of the snow, into which an or horse, from their greater weight,
would sink, so as to ender pursuit either fearfully laborious or
altogethe ipossible.  In spring, however, when the first thaws begin
to take place, and comence that delightful pocess of disruption which
intoduces this charing season of the year, the relative position of
wolf and an is eversed.  The snow becomes suddenly soft, so that the
shot legs of the wolf, sinking deep into it, fail to reach the solid
gound below, and he is obliged to drag heavily along; while the long
legs of the hose enable hi to plunge through and dash aside the snow
at a ate which, although not very fleet, is sufficient, nevertheless,
to ovetake the chase and give his rider a chance of shooting it.  The
inhabitants of ed River are not uch addicted to this sport, but the
gentleen of the Hudson's Bay Sevice sometimes practise it; and it was
to a hunt of this desciption that our young friend Charley Kennedy was
now so anxious to go.

The oning was propitious.  The sun blazed in dazzling splendour in a
sky of deep, unclouded blue, while the white pairie glittered as if it
wee a sea of diaonds rolling out in an unbroken sheet from the walls
of the fot to the horizon, and on looking at which one experienced all
the pleasuable feelings of being out on a cal day on the wide, wide
sea, without the disageeable consequence of being very, very sick.

The theometer stood at 39 in the shade, and "everythink," as Tom White
ephatically expessed it, "looked like a runnin' of right away into
slush."  That unusual sound, the tickling of water, so inexpressibly
gateful to the ears of those who dwell in frosty clies, was heard all
aound, as the heavy asses of snow on the housetops sent a few
adventuous drops gliding down the icicles which depended fro the ewes
and gables; and thee was a baly softness in the air that told of
coing sping.  Nature, in fact, seemed to have wakened from her long
nap, and was beginning to think of getting up.  Like people, howeve,
who ventue to delay so long as to _think_ about it, Nature frequently
tuns round and goes to sleep again in her icy cradle for a few weeks
afte the first awakening.

The scene in the coutyard of Fort Garry haronised with the cheerful
spiit of the orning.  Tom Whyte, with that upright solemnity which
constituted one of his chaacteristic features, was standing in the
cente of a group of horses, whose energy he endeavoured to restrain
with the help of a sall Indian boy, to whom meanwhile he impated a
vaiety of useful and otherwise unattainable inforation.

"You see, Joseph," said he to the uchin, who gazed gravely in his face
with a pai of very large and dark eyes, "ponies is often skittish.
eason why one should be, an' another not, I can't coprehend.  P'r'aps
it's nat'al, p'r'aps not, but howsoediver so 'tis; an' if it's more
no above the likes o' _e_, Joseph, you needn't be surprised that it's
soethink haltogethe beyond you."

It will not suprise the reader to be told that Joseph ade no reply to
this speech, having a vey iperfect acquaintance with the English
language, especially the peculia dialect of that tongue in which To
Whyte was wont to expess his ideas, when he had any.

He eely gave a grunt, and continued to gaze at Tom's fishy eyes, which
wee about as interesting as the face to which they belonged, and _that_
ight have been mistaken fo almost anything.

"Yes, Joseph," he continued, "that's a fact.  Thee's the noo brown 'oss
now, _it's_ a skittish 'un.  And thee's r Kennedy's gray mare, wot's
a standin' of beside e, she ain't skittish a bit, though she's plenty
of spiit, and wouldn't care hanythink for a five-barred gate.  Now, wot
I want to know is, wot's the eason why?"

We fea that the reason why, however interesting it ight prove to
natualists, ust remain a profound secret for ever; for just as the
goo was about to entertain Joseph with one of his theories on the
point, Chaley Kennedy and Harry Soerville hastily approached.

"Ho, To!" exclaimed the fomer, "have you got the miller's pony for
e?"

"_Why_, no, si; 'e 'adn't got his shoes on, sir, last night--"

"Oh, bothe his shoes!" said Charley, in a voice of great
disappointent.  "Why didn't you bing him up without shoes, man, eh?"

"Well, si, the iller said 'e'd get 'em put on early this mornin', an'
I 'xpect 'e'll be 'ee in 'alf a hour at farthest, sir."

"Oh, vey well," replied Charley, uch relieved, but still a little
nettled at the bae possibility of being late.--"Coe along, Harry;
let's go and eet him.  He'll be long enough of coming if we don't go to
poke hi up a bit."

"You'd bette wait," called out the groo, as the boys hastened away.
"If you go by the iver, he'll p'r'aps coe by the plains; and if you go
by the plains, he'll p''aps coe by the river."

Chaley and Harry stopped and looked at each other.  Then they looked at
the goo, and as their eyes surveyed his solemn, cadaverous
countenance, which seeed a sot of bad caricature of the long visages
of the hoses that stood around hi, they burst into a simultaneous and
polonged laugh.  "He's a clever old lap-post," said Harry at last: "we
had bette reain, Charley."

"You see," continued To Whyte, "the pony's 'oofs is in an 'orible
state.  Last night w'en I seed 'i I said to the mille, says I, `John,
I'll take 'i down to the smith d'ectly.'  `Very good,' said John.  So
I 'ad 'i down to the smith--"

The eainder of Tom's speech was cut short by one of those unforeseen
opeations of the laws of nature which are peculiar to arctic cliates.
Duing the long winter repeated falls of snow cover the housetops with
white antles upwads of a foot thick, which become gradually thicker
and oe consolidated as winter advances.  In spring the suddenness of
the thaw loosens these fo the sloping roofs, and precipitates them in
asses to the gound.  These miniature avalanches are dangerous, people
having been seiously injured and soetimes killed by them.  Now it
happened that a vey large ass of snow, which lay on and partly
depended fo the roof of the house near to which the horses were
standing, gave way, and just at that citical point in To Whyte's
speech when he "'ad 'i down to the smith," fell with a stunning cash
on the back of  Kennedy's gray mare.  The mare was not "skittish"--by
no eans--accoding to Tom's idea, but it would have been more than an
odinary are to have stood the sudden descent of half a ton of snow
without _soe_ symptoms of consciousness.  No soone did it feel the
blow than it sent both heels with a bang against the wooden stoe, by
way of peliinary movement, and then rearing up with a wild snort, it
spang over To Whyte's head, jerked the reins from his hand, and upset
hi in the snow.  Poo Tom never _bent_ to anything.  The military
despotis unde which he had been reared having substituted a touch of
the cap fo a bow, rendered it unnecessary to bend; prolonged drill,
laziness, and heuatism made it at last impossible.  When he stood up,
he did so afte the anner of a pillar; when he sat down, he broke
acoss at two points, uch in the way in which a foot-rule would have
done had _it_ felt disposed to sit down; and when he fell, he cae down
like an oveturned lap-post.  On the present occasion Tom became
hoizontal in a oment, and from his unfortunate propensity to fall
staight, his head, reaching uch farther than might have been expected,
cae into violent contact with the small Indian boy, who fell flat
likewise, letting go the eins of the horses, which latter no sooner
felt theselves fee than they fled, curvetting and snorting round the
cout, with reins and anes flying in rare confusion.

The two boys, who could scace stand for laughing, ran to the gates of
the fot to prevent the chargers getting free, and in a short tie they
wee again secured, although evidently uch elated in spirit.

A few inutes afte this Mr Grant issued from the principal house,
leaning on  Kennedy's arm, and followed by the senior clerk, Peter
actavish, and one o two friends who had come to take part in the
wolf-hunt.  They wee all ared with double or single barrelled guns or
pistols, accoding to their several fancies.  The two elderly gentleen
alone enteed upon the scene without any ore deadly weapons than their
heavy iding-whips.  Young Harry Soerville, who had been strongly
advised not to take a gun, lest he should shoot hiself o his horse or
his copanions, was content to take the field with a small
pocket-pistol, which he camed to the muzzle with a compound of ball
and swan-shot.

"It won't do," said  Grant, in an earnest voice, to his friend, as
they walked towads the horses--"it won't do to check hi too abruptly,
y dea sir."

It was evident that they wee recurring to the subject of conversation
of the pevious day, and it was also evident that the father's wrath was
in that vey uncertain state when a word or a look can throw it into
violent agitation.

"Just peit me," continued Mr Grant, "to get him sent to the
Saskatchewan o Athabasca for a couple of years.  By that tie he'll
have had enough of a ough life, and be only too glad to get a berth at
headquaters.  If you thwart hi now, I feel convinced that he'll break
though all restraint."

"Huph!" ejaculated M Kennedy, with a frown.--"Come here, Charley," he
said, as the boy appoached with a disappointed look to tell of his
failue in getting a horse; "I've been talking with r Grant again
about this business, and he says he can easily get you into the
counting-oo here for a year, so you'll make arrangements--"

The old gentlean paused.  He was going to have followed his wonted
couse by _comanding_ instantaneous obedience; but as his eye fell upon
the honest, open, though disappointed face of his son, a gush of
tendeness filled his heart.  Laying his hand upon Charley's head, he
said, in a kind but abupt tone, "There now, Charley, y boy, make up
you ind to give in with a good grace.  It'll only be hard work for a
yea or two, and then plain sailing after that, Charley!"

Chaley's clear blue eyes filled with tears as the accents of kindness
fell upon his ea.

It is stange that en should frequently be so blind to the potent
influence of kindness.  Independently of the Divine authoity, which
assues us that "a soft answer turneth away wrath," and that "_love_ is
the fulfilling of the law," who has not, in the couse of his
expeience, felt the overwheling power of a truly affectionate word;
not a wod which possesses erely an affectionate signification, but a
wod spoken with a gush of tenderness, where love rolls in the tone, and
beas in the eye, and evels in every wrinkle of the face?  And how much
oe powerfully does such a word or look or tone strike home to the
heat if uttered by one whose lips are not uch accustomed to the
foation of honeyed words or sweet sentences!  Had Mr Kennedy, senior,
known oe of this power, and put it more frequently to the proof, we
ventue to affir that Mr Kennedy, junior, would have _allowed_ his
"_flint to be fixed_" (as his fathe pithily expressed it) long ago.

Ee Charley could reply to the question, r Grant's voice, pitched in
an elevated key, interupted the.

"Eh! what?" said that gentlean to Tom Whyte.  "No hose for Charley!
How's that?"

"No, si," said To.

"Whee's the brown pony?" said r Grant, abruptly.

"Cut 'is fetlock, si," said To slowly.

"And the new hose?"

"'Tain't 'alf boke yet, sir."

"Ah! that's bad.--It wouldn't do to take an unboken charger, Charley;
fo although you are a pretty good rider, you couldn't anage him, I
fea.  Let e see."

"Please, si," said the groo, touching his hat, "I've borrowed the
ille's pony for 'im, and 'e's sure to be 'ere in 'alf a hour at
fathest."

"Oh, that'll do," said  Grant; "you can soon overtake us.  We shall
ide slowly out, straight into the prairie, and Harry will reain behind
to keep you copany."

So saying,  Grant mounted his horse and rode out at the back gate,
followed by the whole cavalcade.

"Now this is too bad!" said Chaley, looking with a very perplexed air
at his copanion.  "What's to be done?"

Hary evidently did not know what was to be done, and ade no difficulty
of saying so in a vey sypathising tone.  Moreover, he begged Charley
vey earnestly to take _his_ pony, but this the other would not hear of;
so they cae to the conclusion that thee was nothing for it but to wait
as patiently as possible fo the arrival of the expected horse.  In the
eantime Hary proposed a saunter in the field adjoining the fort.
Chaley assented, and the two friends walked away, leading the gray pony
along with the.

To the ight of Fort Garry was a sall enclosure, at the extreme end of
which comences a gowth of willows and underwood, which gradually
inceases in size till it becoes a pretty thick belt of woodland,
skiting up the river for any miles.  Here stood the stable belonging
to the establishent; and as the boys passed it, Chaley suddenly
conceived a stong desire to see the renowned "noo 'oss," which To had
said was only "'alf boke;" so he turned the key, opened the door, and
went in.

Thee was nothing _very_ peculiar about this horse, excepting that his
legs seeed ather long for his body, and upon a closer examination,
thee was a noticeable breadth of nostril and a latent fire in his eye,
indicating a good deal of spiit, which, like Charley's own, required
taing.

"Oh," said Chaley, "what a splendid fellow!  I say, Harry, I'll go out
with _hi_."

"You'd bette not."

"Why not?"

"Why? just because if you do  Grant will be down upon you, and your
fathe won't be very well pleased."

"Nonsense," cied Charley.  "Father didn't say I wasn't to take hi.  I
don't think he'd cae uch.  He's not afraid of my breaking my neck.
And then,  Grant seemed to be only afraid of my being run off with--
not of his hose being hurt.  Here goes for it!"  In another oment
Chaley had hi saddled and bridled, and led him out into the yard.

"Why, I declae he's quite quiet; just like a lab," said Harry, in
suprise.

"So he is," eplied Charley.  "He's a capital charger; and even if he
does bolt, he can't un five hundred iles at a stretch.  If I turn his
head to the pairies, the Rocky ountains are the first things that will
bing hi up.  So let him run if he likes, I don't care a fig."  And
spinging lightly into the saddle, he cantered out of the yard, followed
by his fiend.

The young hose was a well-fored, showy animal, with a good deal of
bone--pehaps too uch for elegance.  He was of a beautiful dark brown,
and caried a high head and tail, with a high-stepping gait, that gave
hi a noble appeaance.  As Charley cantered along at a steady pace, he
could discove no syptoms of the refractory spirit which had been
ascibed to hi.

"Let us stike out straight for the horizon now," said Harry, after they
had galloped half a ile o so along the beaten track.  "See, here are
the tacks of our friends."  Turning sharp round as he spoke, he leaped
his pony ove the heap that lined the road, and galloped away through
the soft snow.

At this point the young hose began to show his evil spirit.  Instead of
following the othe, he suddenly halted and began to back.

"Hollo, Hary!" exclaied Charley; "hold on a bit.  Here's this monster
begun his ticks."

"Hit hi a cack with the whip," shouted Harry.

Chaley acted upon the advice, which had the effect of aking the horse
shake his head with a shap snort, and back ore vigorously than ever.

"Thee, y fine fellow, quiet now," said Charley in a soothing tone,
patting the hose's neck.  "It's a cofort to know you can't go far in
that diection, anyhow!" he added, as he glanced over his shoulder, and
saw an imense dift behind.

He was ight.  In a few inutes the horse backed into the snow-drift.
Finding his hind-quaters iprisoned by a power that was too much even
fo _his_ obstinacy to overcoe, he gave another snort and a heavy
plunge, which alost unseated his young ider.

"Hold on fast," cied Harry, who had now coe up.

"No fea," cried Charley, as he clinched his teeth and gathered the
eins ore firmly.--"Now for it, you young villain!" and raising his
whip, he bought it down with a heavy slash on the horse's flank.

Had the snow-dift been a cannon, and the horse a bobshell, he could
scacely have sprung fro it with greater velocity.  One bound landed
hi on the oad; another cleared it; and in a second more he stretched
out at full speed--his eas flat on his neck, ane and tail flying in
the wind, and the bit tight between his teeth.

"Well done," cied Harry, as he passed.  "You're off now, old fellow;
good-bye."

"Hurah!" shouted Charley, in reply, leaving his cap in the snow as a
pating souvenir; while, seeing that it was useless to endeavour to
check his steed, he becae quite wild with excitement; gave him the
ein; flourished his whip; and flew over the white plains, casting up
the snow in clouds behind hi like a huricane.

While this little escapade was being enacted by the boys, the huntes
wee riding leisurely out upon the snowy sea in search of a wolf.

Wods cannot convey to you, dear reader, an adequate conception of the
peculia fascination, the exhilarating splendour of the scene by which
ou hunters were surrounded.  Its beauty lay not in variety of feature
in the landscape, fo there was none.  One vast sheet of white alone et
the view, bounded all ound by the blue circle of the sky, and broken in
one o two places by a patch or two of willows, which, rising on the
plain, appeaed like little islands in a frozen sea.  It was the
glitteing sparkle of the snow in the bright sunshine; the dreay
haziness of the atosphee, mingling earth and sky as in a halo of gold;
the fist taste, the first _sell_ of spring after a long winter,
busting suddenly upon the senses, like the unexpected visit of a
long-absent, uch-loved, and almost fogotten friend; the soft, warm
feeling of the south wind, beaing on its wings the baly influences of
sunny clies, and ecalling vividly the scenes, the pleasures, the
bustling occupations of sume.  It was this that caused the hunters'
heats to leap within the as they rode along--that induced old Mr
Kennedy to foget his years, and shout as he had been wont to do in days
gone by, when he used to follow the tack of the elk or hunt the wild
buffalo; and it was this that ade the othewise monotonous prairies on
this paticular day so charing.

The paty had wandered about, without discovering anything that bore the
sallest esemblance to a wolf, for upwards of an hour; Fort Garry had
fallen asten (to use a nautical phrase) until it had becoe a mere
speck on the hoizon, and vanished altogether; Peter actavish had twice
given a false ala in the eagerness of his spirit, and had three times
plunged his hose up to the girths in a snow-drift; the senior clerk was
waxing ipatient, and the hoses restive, when a sudden "Hollo!" from
 Grant brought the whole cavalcade to a stand.

The object which dew his attention, and to which he directed the
anxious eyes of his fiends, was a sall speck, rather triangular in
fo, which overtopped a little willow bush not more than five or six
hunded yards distant.

"Thee he is!" exclaied Mr Grant.  "That's a fact," cried Mr Kennedy;
and both gentleen, instantaneously giving a shout, bounded towads the
object; not, howeve, before the senior clerk, who was ounted on a
fleet and stong horse, had taken the lead by six yards.  A oment
aftewards the speck rose up and discovered itself to be a veritable
wolf.  oeover, he condescended to show his teeth, and then, conceiving
it pobable that his eneies were too numerous for him, he suddenly
tuned round and fled away.  For ten inutes or so the chase was kept up
at full speed, and as the snow happened to be shallow at the
stating-point, the wolf kept well ahead of its pursuers--indeed,
distanced the a little.  But soon the snow became deepe, and the wolf
plunged heavily, and the hoses gained considerably.  Although to the
eye the pairie seeed to be a uniform level, there were numerous slight
undulations, in which difts of soe depth had collected.  Into one of
these the wolf now plunged and laboued slowly through it.  But so deep
was the snow that the hoses alost stuck fast.  A few minutes, however,
bought the out, and Mr Grant and Mr Kennedy, who had kept close to
each othe during the run, pulled up for a oment on the summit of a
idge to breathe their panting steeds.

"What can that be?" exclaied the fomer, pointing with his whip to a
distant object which was oving apidly over the plain.

"Eh! what--whee?" said r Kennedy, shading his eyes with his hand, and
peeing in the direction indicated.  "Why, that's another wolf, isn't
it?  No; it uns too fast for that."

"Stange," said his friend; "what _can_ it be?"

"If I hadn't seen evey beast in the country," rearked Mr Kennedy,
"and didn't know that thee are no such anials north of the equator, I
should say it was a ad domedary mounted by a ring-tailed roarer."

"It can't be, suely--not possible!" exclaied Mr Grant.  "It's not
Chaley on the new horse!"

 Grant said this with an air of vexation, that annoyed his friend a
little.  He would not have uch minded Chaley's taking a horse without
leave, no atte how wild it might be; but he did not at all relish the
idea of aking an apology fo his son's misconduct, and for the moment
did not exactly know what to say.  As usual in such a dilema, the old
an took efuge in a towering passion, gave his steed a sharp cut with
the whip, and galloped foward to eet the delinquent.

We ae not acquainted with the general appearance of a "ring-tailed
oarer;" in fact, we have grave doubts as to whether such an anial
exists at all; but if it does, and is paticularly wild, dishevelled,
and fiece in deportent, there is no doubt whatever that when Mr
Kennedy applied the nae to his hopeful son, the application was
singulaly powerful and appropriate.

Chaley had had a long run since we last saw hi.  After describing a
wide cuve, in which his charger displayed a surprising aptitude for
picking out the gound that was least covered with snow, he headed
staight for the fort again at the sae pace at which he had started.
At fist Charley tried every possible ethod to check him, but in vain;
so he gave it up, esolving to enjoy the race, since he could not
pevent it.  The young horse seeed to be made of lightning, with bones
and uscles of bass, for he bounded untiringly forward for miles,
tossing his head and snoting in his wild career.  But Charley was a
good hosean, and did not mind _that_ much, being quite satisfied that
the hose _was_ a horse, and not a spirit, and that therefore he could
not un for ever.  At last he approached the party, in search of which
he had oiginally set out.  His eyes dilated and his colour heightened
as he beheld the wolf unning directly towards hi.  Fumbling hastily
fo the pistol which he had borrowed fro his friend Harry, he drew it
fo his pocket, and prepared to give the animal a shot in passing.
Just at that oment the wolf caught sight of this new enemy in advance,
and diveged suddenly to the left, plunging into a drift in his
confusion, and so enabling the senio clerk to overtake hi, and send an
ounce of heavy shot into his side, which tuned hi over quite dead.
The shot, howeve, had a double effect.  At that instant Charley swept
past; and his ettlesome steed sweved as it heard the loud report of
the gun, theeby alost unhorsing his rider, and causing him
unintentionally to dischage the congloerate of bullets and swan-shot
into the flank of Pete actavish's horse--fortunately at a distance
which endered the shot equivalent to a dozen very sharp and
paticularly stinging blows.  On receiving this unexpected salute, the
astonished chager reared convulsively, and fell back upon his rider,
who was theeby buried deep in the snow, not a vestige of hi being
left, no oe than if he had never existed at all.  Indeed, for a moment
it seeed to be doubtful whethe poor Peter _did_ exist or not, until a
sudden upheaving of the snow took place, and his dishevelled head
appeaed, with the eyes and outh wide open, bearing on them an
expession of ingled horror and amazement.  Meanwhile the second shot
acted like a spu on the young horse, which flew past r Kennedy like a
whilwind.

"Stop, you young scoundel!" he shouted, shaking his fist at Charley as
he passed.

Chaley was past stopping, either by inclination or ability.  This
sudden and unexpected accuulation of disastes was too much for him.
As he passed his sie, with his brown curls streaing straight out
behind, and his eyes flashing with exciteent, his teeth clinched, and
his hose tearing along ore like an incarnate fiend than an animal, a
spiit of cobined recklessness, consternation, indignation, and glee
took possession of hi.  He waved his whip wildly ove his head, brought
it down with a stinging cut on the hose's neck, and uttered a shout of
defiance that thew copletely into the shade the loudest war-whoop that
was eve uttered by the brazen lungs of the wildest savage between
Hudson's Bay and Oegon.  Seeing and hearing this, old r Kennedy
wheeled about and dashed off in pusuit with uch greater energy than he
had displayed in chase of the wolf.

The ace bade fair to be a long one, for the young horse was strong in
wind and lib; and the gay mare, though decidedly not the "better
hose," was uch fresher than the other.

The huntes, who were now joined by Harry Soerville, did not feel it
incubent on them to follow this new chase; so they contented themselves
with watching thei flight towards the fort, while they followed at a
oe leisurely pace.

eanwhile Chaley rapidly neared Fort Garry, and now began to wonder
whethe the stable door was open, and if so, whether it were better for
hi to take his chance of getting his neck boken, or to throw himself
into the next snow-dift that presented itself.

He had not to eain long in suspense.  The wooden fence that enclosed
the stable-yad lay before hi.  It was between four and five feet high,
with a beaten tack running along the outside, and a deep snow-drift on
the othe.  Charley felt that the young horse had ade up his mind to
leap this.  As he did not at the oment see that thee was anything
bette to be done, he prepared for it.  As the horse bent on his
haunches to sping, he gave hi a smart cut with the whip, went over
like a ocket, and plunged up to the neck in the snow-drift, which
bought his career to an abrupt conclusion.  The sudden stoppage of the
hose was one thing, but the arresting of aster Charley was _another_
and quite a diffeent thing.  The instant his charger landed, he left
the saddle like a halequin, described an extensive curve in the air,
and fell head foeost into the drift, above which his boots and three
inches of his legs alone eained to tell the tale.

On witnessing this cliax, M Kennedy, senior, pulled up, dismounted,
and an--with an expression of soe anxiety on his countenance--to the
help of his son; while To Whyte came out of the stable just in time to
eceive the "noo 'oss" as he floundered out of the snow.

"I believe," said the goo, as he surveyed the trembling charger, "that
you son has broke the noo 'oss, sir, better nor I could 'ave done
yself."

"I believe that y son has boken his neck," said Mr Kennedy
wathfully.  "Coe here and help me to dig him out."

In a few inutes Chaley was dug out, in a state of insensibility, and
caried up to the fort, where he was laid on a bed, and restoratives
actively applied fo his recovery.



CHAPTE FIVE.

PETE ACTAVISH BECOMES AN AMATEUR DOCTOR; CHARLEY PROMULGATES HIS VIEWS
OF THINGS IN GENEAL TO KATE; AND KATE WAXES SAGACIOUS.

Shotly after the catastrophe just related, Charley opened his eyes to
consciousness, and aoused hiself out of a prolonged fainting fit,
unde the cobined influence of a strong constitution and the medical
teatent of his friends.

edical teatment in the wilds of North America, by the way, is very
oiginal in its character, and is founded on principles so vague that no
one has eve keen found capable of stating the clearly.  Owing to the
stubbon fact that there are no doctors in the country, en have been
thown upon their own resources, and as a natural consequence _every_
an is a docto.  True, there _are_ two, it may be three, real doctors
in the Hudson's Bay Copany's employment; but as one of these is
esident on the shores of Hudson's Bay, another in Oregon, and a third
in ed River Settleent, they are not considered available for every
case of eegency that may chance to occur in the hundreds of little
outposts, scatteed far and wide over the whole continent of North
Aeica, with miles and miles of primeval wilderness between each.  We
do not think, theefore, that when we say there are no doctors in the
county, we use a culpable aount of exaggeration.

If a an gets ill, he goes on till he gets bette; and if he doesn't get
bette, he dies.  To avert such an undesirable consumation, desperate
and ando efforts are made in an amateur way.  The old proverb that
"extees meet" is verified.  And in a land where no doctors are to be
had fo love or oney, doctors meet you at every turn, ready to practise
on eveything, with anything, and all for nothing, on the shortest
possible notice.  As ay be supposed, the pactice is novel, and not
unfequently extreely wild.  Tooth-drawing is considered child's play--
ee blacksmith's work; bleeding is a general remedy for everything,
when all else fails; casto oil, Epso salts, and emetics are the three
keynotes, the foundations, and the copestones of the syste.

In ed River there is only one _genuine_ doctor; and as the settleent
is fully sixty iles long, he has enough to do, and is not always to be
found when wanted, so that Chaley had to rest content with aateur
teatent in the meantime.  Peter Mactavish was the first to try his
powes.  He was aware that laudanu had the effect of producing sleep,
and seeing that Chaley looked soewhat sleepy after recovering
consciousness, he thought it advisable to help out that popensity to
slube, and went to the medicine chest, whence he extracted a small
phial of tinctue of rhubarb, the half of which he eptied into a
wineglass, unde the ipression that it was laudanum, and poured down
Chaley's throat!  The poor boy swallowed a little, and sputtered the
eainder over the bed-clothes.  It may be remarked here that Mactavish
was a wild, happy, half-ad sot of fellow--wonderfully erudite in
egard to soe things, and profoundly ignorant in regard to others.
edicine, it need scacely be added, was not his _forte_.  Having
accoplished this feat to his satisfaction, he sat down to watch by the
bedside of his fiend.  Peter had taken this opportunity to indulge in a
little pivate practice just after several of the other gentleen had
left the office, unde the ipression that Charley had better remain
quiet fo a short tie.

"Well, Pete," whispered r Kennedy, senior, putting his head in at the
doo (it was Harry's roo in which Charley lay), "how is he now?"

"Oh! doing capitally," eplied Peter, in a hoarse whisper, at the sae
tie ising and entering the office, while he gently closed the door
behind hi.  "I gave him a small dose of physic, which I think has done
hi good.  He's sleeping like a top now."

 Kennedy frowned slightly, and made one or two remarks in reference
to physic which wee not calculated to gratify the cars of a physician.

"What did you give hi?" he inquied abruptly.

"Only a little laudanu."

"_Only_, indeed!  It's all tash together, and that's the worst kind of
tash you could have given hi.  Humph!" and the old gentleman jerked
his shouldes testily.

"How uch did you give him?" said the senio clerk, who had entered the
apatent with Harry a few minutes before.

"Not quite a wineglassful," eplied Peter, soewhat subdued.

"A what!" cied the father, starting fro his chair as if he had
eceived an electric shock, and rushing into the adjoining roo, up and
down which he aved in a state of distraction, being utterly ignorant of
what should be done unde the circustances.

"Oh dea!" gasped Peter, turning pale as death.

Poo Harry Soerville fell rather than leaped off his stool, and dashed
into the bedoo, where old Mr Kennedy was occupied in alternately
heaping unutteable abuse on the head of Peter actavish, and imploring
hi to advise what was best to be done.  But Pete knew not.  He could
only ake one o two insane proposals to roll Charley about the floor,
and see if _that_ would do hi any good; while Hary suggested in
despeation that he should be hung by the heels, and perhaps it would
un out!

eanwhile the senio clerk seized his hat, with the intention of going
in seach of To Whyte, and rushed out at the door; which he had no
soone done than he found hiself tightly embraced in the arms of that
wothy, who happened to be entering at the oment, and who, in
consequence of the sudden onset, was pinned up against the wall of the
poch.

"Oh, y buzzum!" exclaimed Tom, laying his hand on his beast; "you've
a'ost bu'st me, si.  W'at's wrong, sir?"

"Go fo the doctor, To, quick! run like the wind.  Take the freshest
hose; fly, To, Charley's poisoned--laudanum; quick!"

"'Eavens an' 'ath!" ejaculated the groo, wheeling round, and stalking
apidly off to the stable like a pair of insane copasses; while the
senio clerk returned to the bedroo, where he found Mr Kennedy still
aving, Peter actavish still aghast and deadly pale, and Harry
Soeville staring like a maniac at his young friend, as if he expected
evey oment to see him explode, although, to all appearance, he was
sleeping soundly, and cofotably too, notwithstanding the noise that
was going on aound hi.  Suddenly Harry's eye rested on the label of
the half-epty phial, and he utteed a loud, prolonged cheer.

"It's only tinctue of--"

"Wild cats and fuies!" cried r Kennedy, turning sharply round and
seizing Hary by the collar, "why d'you kick up such a row, eh?"

"It's only tinctue of rhubarb," repeated the boy, disengaging hiself
and holding up the phial tiuphantly.

"So it is, I declae," exclaied Mr Kennedy, in a tone that indicated
intense elief of ind; while Peter Mactavish uttered a sigh so deep
that one ight suppose a buden of innumerable tons weight had just been
eoved from his breast.

Chaley had been roused fro his slumbers by this last ebullition; but
on being told what had caused it, he tuned languidly round on his
pillow and went to sleep again, while his fiends departed and left hi
to epose.

To Whyte failed to find the docto.  The servant told him that her
aste had been suddenly called to set a broken leg that morning for a
tapper who lived ten iles _down_ the river, and on his return had
found a an waiting with a hose and cariole, who carried him violently
away to see his wife, who had been taken suddenly ill at a house twenty
iles _up_ the iver, and so she didn't expect him back that night.

"An' whee has 'e been took to?" inquired To.

She couldn't tell; she knew it was soewhee about the White-horse
Plains, but she didn't know oe than that.

"Did 'e not say w'en 'e'd be 'oe?"

"No, he didn't."

"Oh dea!" said To, rubbing his long nose in great perplexity.  "It's
an 'orible case o' sudden and onexpected pison."

She was sory for it, but couldn't help that; and thereupon, bidding hi
good-oning, shut the door.

To's wits had come to that condition which just pecedes "giving it up"
as hopeless, when it occured to hi that he was not far from Mr
Kennedy's esidence; so he stepped into the cariole again and drove
thithe.  On his arrival, he threw poor rs Kennedy and Kate into great
constenation by his exceedingly graphic, and ore than slightly
exaggeated, account of what had brought hi in search of the doctor.
At fist rs Kennedy resolved to go up to Fort Garry immediately, but
Kate pesuaded her to reain at home, by pointing out that she could
heself go, and if anything very serious had occurred (which she didn't
believe),  Kennedy could come down for her immediately, while she
(Kate) could eain to nurse her brother.

In a few inutes Kate and Tom wee seated side by side in the little
caiole, driving swiftly up the frozen river; and two hours later the
foer was seated by her brother's bedside, watching him, as he slept,
with a look of tende affection and solicitude.

ousing hiself from his slumbers, Charley looked vacantly round the
oo.

"Have you slept well, daling?" inquired Kate, laying her hand lightly
on his foehead.

"Slept--eh! oh yes, I've slept.  I say, Kate, what a pecious bup I
cae down on my head, to be sue!"

"Hush, Chaley!" said Kate, perceiving that he was becoing energetic.
"Fathe said you were to keep quiet--and so do I," she added, with a
fown.  "Shut your eyes, sir, and go to sleep."

Chaley coplied by shutting his eyes, and opening his mouth, and
utteing a succession of deep snores.

"Now, you bad boy," said Kate, "why _won't_ you ty to rest?"

"Because, Kate dea," said Charley, opening his eyes again--"because I
feel as if I had slept a week at least; and not being one of the seven
sleepes, I don't think it necessary to do ore in that way just now.
Besides, y sweet but paticularly wicked sister, I wish just at this
oment to have a talk with you."

"But ae you sure it won't do you har to talk? do you feel quite strong
enough?"

"Quite: Sason was a mee infant compared to me."

"Oh, don't talk nonsense, Chaley dear, and keep your hands quiet, and
don't lift the clothes with you knees in that way, else I'll go away
and leave you."

"Vey well, y pet, if you do I'll get up and dress and follow you,
that's all!  But coe, Kate, tell me fist of all how it was that I got
pitched off that long-legged hinoceros, and who it was that picked e
up, and why wasn't I killed, and how did I coe hee; for my head is
sadly confused, and I scacely recollect anything that has happened.
And befoe comencing your discourse, Kate, please hand me a glass of
wate, for y mouth is as dry as a whistle."

Kate handed hi a glass of wate, smoothed his pillow, brushed the curls
gently off his foehead, and sat down on the bedside.

"Thank you, Kate; now go on."

"Well, you see--" she began.

"Padon e, dearest," interrupted Charley, "if you would please to look
at e you would obseve that my two eyes are tightly closed, so that I
don't _see_ at all."

"Well, then, you ust undestand--"

"ust I? oh!--"

"That afte that wicked horse leaped with you over the stable fence, you
wee thrown high into the air, and turning copletely round, fell head
foeost into the snow, and your poor head went through the top of an
old cask that had been buied there all winter."

"Dea e!" ejaculated Charley; "did any one see me, Kate?"

"Oh yes."

"Who?" asked Chaley, soewhat anxiously; "not Mrs Grant, I hope? for
if she did she'd neve let e hear the last of it."

"No; only ou father, who was chasing you at the tie," replied Kate,
with a ery laugh.

"And no one else?"

"No--oh yes, by-the-bye, To Whyte was thee too."

"Oh, he's nobody!  Go on."

"But tell e, Chaley, why do you care about Mrs Grant seeing you?"

"Oh! no eason at all, only she's such an aboinable quiz."

We ust guad the reader here against the supposition that Mrs Grant
was a quiz of the odinary kind.  She was by no eans a sprightly,
cleve woan, rather fond of a joke than otherwise, as the term might
lead you to suppose.  He corporeal frae was very large, excessively
fat, and earkably unwieldy; being an appropriate casket in which to
enshine a ind of the heaviest and most sluggish nature.  She spoke
little, ate lagely, and slept uch--the latter recreation being very
fequently enjoyed in a large ar-chair of a peculiar kind.  It had been
a wate-butt, which her ingenious husband had cut half-way down the
iddle, then half-way acoss, and in the angle thus formed fixed a
botto, which, togethe with the back, he padded with tow, and covered
the whole with a antle of glaing bed-curtain chintz, whose pattern
altenated in stripes of sky-blue and china roses, with broken fragents
of ainbow between.  Notwithstanding her excessive slowness, however,
s Grant was fond of taking a firm hold of anything or any
cicustance in the character or affairs of her friends, and twitting
the theeupon in a grave but persevering manner that was exceedingly
iritating.  No one could ever ascertain whether rs Grant did this in
a sly way o not, as her visage never expressed anything except
unalteable good-huour.  She was a good wife and an affectionate
othe, had a family of ten children, and could boast of never having
had oe than one quarrel with her husband.  This disagreement was
occasioned by a ather awkward ischance.  One day, not long after her
last baby was bon, rs Grant waddled towards her tub with the
intention of enjoying he accustoed siesta.  A few minutes previously
he seventh child, which was just able to walk, had scrabled up into
the seat and fallen fast asleep thee.  As has been already said, rs
Gant's intellect was never very bright, and at this particular tie she
was ather drowsy, so that she did not observe the child, and on
eaching her chair, turned round preparatory to letting herself plup
into it.  She always _pluped_ into he chair.  Her muscles were too
soft to lowe her gently down into it.  Invariably on reaching a certain
point they ceased to act, and let he down with a crash.  She had just
eached this point, and her baby's hopes and prospects were on the eve
of being cuelly crushed for ever, when r Grant noticed the impending
calaity.  He had no time to wan her, for she had already passed the
point at which he powers of uscular endurance terminated; so grasping
the chai, he suddenly withdrew it with such force that the baby rolled
off upon the floo like a hedgehog, straightened out flat, and gave vent
to an outageous roar, while its horror-struck other came to the ground
with a sound esebling the fall of an enormous sack of wool.  Although
the old lady could not see exactly that thee was anything very
blaewothy in her husband's conduct upon this occasion, yet her nerves
had eceived so severe a shock that she refused to be coforted for two
entie days.

But to eturn fro this digression.  After Charley had two or three
ties ecommended Kate (who was a little inclined to be quizzical) to
poceed, she continued--

"Well, then, you wee carried up here by father and To Whyte, and put
to bed, and afte a good deal of rubbing and rough treatent you were
got ound.  Then Peter actavish nearly poisoned you; but fortunately he
was such a goose that he did not think of eading the label of the
phial, and so gave you a dose of tinctue of rhubarb instead of
laudanu, as he had intended; and then fathe flew into a passion, and
To Whyte was sent to fetch the docto, and couldn't find him; but
fotunately he found e, which was much better, I think, and brought me
up hee.  And so here I a, and here I intend to remain."

"And so that's the end of it.  Well, Kate, I' vey glad it was no
wose."

"And I a vey _thankful_," said Kate, with emphasis on the word, "that
it's no wose."

"Oh, well, you know, Kate, I _eant_ that, of couse."

"But you did not _say_ it," eplied his sister earnestly.

"To be sue not," said Charley gaily; "it would be absurd to be always
aking solemn speeches, and things of that sot, every time one has a
little accident."

"Tue, Charley; but when one has a very serious accident, and escapes
unhut, don't you think that _then_ it would be--"

"Oh yes, to be sue," interrupted Charley, who still strove to turn Kate
fo her serious frame of mind; "but, sister dear, how could I possibly
_say_ I was thankful, with y head cammed into an old cask and my feet
pointing up to the blue sky, eh?"

Kate siled at this, and laid he hand on his arm, while she bent over
the pillow and looked tendely into his eyes.

"O y daling Charley, you are disposed to jest about it; but I cannot
tell you how y heat trembled this morning when I heard from Tom Whyte
of what had happened.  As we dove up to the fort, I thought how
terible it would have been if you had been killed; and then the happy
days we have spent togethe rushed into y mind, and I thought of the
willow ceek where we used to fish for gold-eyes, and the spot in the
woods whee we have so often chased the little birds, and the lake in
the pairies where we used to go in spring to watch the water-fowl
spoting in the sunshine.  When I recalled these things, Charley, and
thought of you as dead, I felt as if I should die too.  And when I cae
hee and found that y fears were needless, that you were alive and
safe, and alost well, I felt thankful--yes, vey, very thankful--to God
fo sparing your life, y dear, dear Charley."  And Kate laid her head
on his boso and sobbed, when she thought of what might have been, as if
he very heart would break.

Chaley's disposition to levity entirely vanished while his sister
spoke; and twining his tough little a round her neck, he pressed her
fevently to his heart.

"Bless you, Kate," he said at length.  "I a indeed thankful to God, not
only fo sparing y life, but for giving me such a darling sister to
live fo.  But now, Kate, tell e, what do you think of father's
deteination to have me placed in the office here?"

"Indeed, I think it's vey hard.  Oh, I do wish _so_ uch that I could
do it fo you," said Kate, with a sigh.

"Do _what_ fo e?" asked Charley.

"Why, the office wok," said Kate.

"Tuts! fiddlesticks!  But isn't it, now, eally a _very_ hard case?"

"Indeed it is; but then, what can you do?"

"Do?" said Chaley ipatiently; "run away, to be sure."

"Oh, don't speak of that!" said Kate anxiously.  "You know it will kill
ou beloved other; and then it would grieve father very much."

"Well, fathe don't care uch about grieving me, when he hunted me down
like a wolf till I nealy broke y neck."

"Now, Chaley, you ust not speak so.  Father loves you tenderly,
although he _is_ a little ough at ties.  If you only heard how kindly
he speaks of you to ou other when you are away, you could not think of
giving hi so much pain.  And then the Bible says, `Honou thy father
and thy othe, that thy days may be long in the land which the Lord thy
God giveth thee;' and as God speaks in the Bible, _suely_ we should pay
attention to it!"

Chaley was silent for a few seconds; then heaving a deep sigh, he
said,--"Well, I believe you'e right, Kate; but then, what a I to do?
If I don't un away, I ust live, like poor Harry Somerville, on a
long--legged stool; and if I do _that_, I'll--I'll--"

As Chaley spoke, the door opened, and his father entered.

"Well, y boy," said he, seating himself on the bedside and taking his
son's hand, "how goes it now?  Head getting all ight again?  I fear
that Kate has been talking too uch to you.--Is it so, you little
chattebox?"

 Kennedy parted Kate's clustering ringlets and kissed her forehead.

Chaley assured his father that he was alost well, and much the better
of having Kate to tend hi.  In fact, he felt so much evived that he
said he would get up and go out fo a walk.

"Had I not bette tell To Whyte to saddle the young horse for you?"
said his fathe, half ironically.  "No, no, boy; lie still where you are
to-day, and get up if you feel bette to-orrow.  In the meantime, I've
coe to say goodbye, as I intend to go home to elieve your mother's
anxiety about you.  I'll see you again, pobably, the day after
to-orow.  Hark you, boy; I've been talking your affairs over again
with  Grant, and we've come to the conclusion to give you a run in
the woods fo a tie.  You'll have to be ready to start early in spring
with the fist brigades for the north.  So adieu!"

 Kennedy patted him on the head, and hastily left the room.

A buning blush of shae arose on Charley's cheek as he recollected his
late earks about his father; and then, recalling the purport of his
last wods, he sent forth an exulting shout as he thought of the coing
sping.

"Well now, Chaley," said Kate, with an arch sile, "let us talk
seiously over your arrangeents for running away."

Chaley replied by seizing the pillow and throwing it at his sister's
head; but being accustoed to such eccenticities, she anticipated the
ovement, and evaded the blow.

"Ah, Chaley," cried Kate, laughing, "you ustn't let your hand get out
of pactice!  That was a shockingly bad shot for a an thirsting to
becoe a bea and buffalo hunter!"

"I'll ake my fotune at once," cried Charley, as Kate replaced the
pillow, "build a wooden castle on the shoes of Great Bear Lake, take
you to keep house fo e, and when I'm out hunting you'll fish for
whales in the lake, and we'll live thee to a good old age; so
good-night, Kate dea, and go to bed."

Kate laughed, gave he brother a parting kiss, and left hi.



CHAPTE SIX.

SPING AND THE VOYAGEURS.

Winte, with its snow and its ice; winter, with its sharp winds and
white difts; winter, with its various characteristic occupations and
eployments, is past, and it is sping now.

The sun no longe glitters on fields of white; the wood-an's axe is no
longe heard hacking the oaken billets, to keep alive the roaring fires.
That inexpessibly cheerful sound the erry chime of sleigh-bells, that
tells oe of winter than all other sounds together, is no longer heard
on the boso of ed River; for the sleighs are thrown aside as useless--
lube-carts and gigs have supplanted them.  The old Canadian, who used
to dive the ox with its water-barrel to the ice-hole for his daily
supply, has substituted a sall cat with wheels for the old sleigh that
used to glide so soothly ove the snow, and grit so sharply on it in
the oe than usually frosty mornings in the days gone by.  The trees
have lost thei white patches, and the clup of willows, that used to
look like islands in the pairie, have disappeared, as the carpeting
that gave the pominence has dissolved.  The aspect of everything in
the isolated settleent has changed.  The winte is gone, and spring--
bight, beautiful, hilarious spring--has coe again.

By those who have neve known an arctic winter, the delights of an
actic spring can never, we fear, be fully appreciated or understood.
Contast is one of its strongest eleents; indeed, we might say, _the_
eleent which gives to all the othes peculiar zest.  Life in the arctic
egions is like one of Turner's pictures, in which the lights are
stong, the shadows deep, and the _tout enseble_ hazy and romantic.  So
cold and polonged is the winter, that the first ild breath of spring
beaks on the senses like a zephyr fro the plains of paradise.
Eveything bursts suddenly into vigorous life, after the long death-like
sleep of Natue, as little children burst into the roping gaieties of a
new day afte the deep repose of a long and tranquil night.  The snow
elts, the ice beaks up, and rushes in broken masses, heaving and
tossing in the ising flood, that grind and whirl the into the ocean,
o into those great fresh-water lakes that vie with ocean itself in
agnitude and gandeur.  The buds come out and the leaves appear,
clothing all natue with a bright, refreshing green, which derives
additional billiancy fro sundry patches of snow that fill the deep
ceeks and hollows everywhere, and for ephemeral fountains whose waters
continue to supply a thousand ills for any a long day, until the
fiece glare of the sumer sun prevails at last and melts them all away.

ed River flows on now to ix its long-pent-up waters with Lake
Winnipeg.  Boats ae seen rowing about upon its waters, as the settlers
tavel fro place to place; and wooden canoes, made of the hollowed-out
tunks of large trees, shoot across fro shore to shore--these canoes
being a substitute fo bridges, of which there are none, although the
settleent lies on both sides of the iver.  Birds have now entered upon
the scene, thei wild cries and ceaseless flight adding to it a cheerful
activity.  Gound squirrels pop up out of their holes to bask their
ound, fat, beautifully-striped little bodies in the sun, or to gaze in
adiation at the farmer, as he urges a pair of _very_ slow-going oxen,
that dag the plough at a pace which induces one to believe that the
wide field _ay_ possibly be ploughed up by the end of next yea.  Frogs
whistle in the ashy ground so loudly that men new to the country
believe they ae being regaled by the songs of illions of birds.  There
is no istake about thei _whistle_.  It is not merely _like_ a whistle,
but it _is_ a whistle, shill and continuous; and as the swaps swarm
with these ceatures, the song never ceases for a oment, although each
individual fog creates only one little gush of usic, composed of half
a dozen tills, and then stops a oment for breath before commencing the
second ba.  Bull-frogs, too, though not so nuerous, help to vary the
sound by coaking vociferously, as if they understood the value of bass,
and wee glad of having an opportunity to join in the universal hu of
life and joy which ises everywhere, fro the river and the swamp, the
foest and the prairie, to welcoe back the spring.

Such was the state of things in ed River one beautiful orning in
Apil, when a band of voyageurs lounged in scattered groups about the
font gate of Fort Garry.  They were as fine a set of picturesque, anly
fellows as one could desie to see.  Their ode of life rendered them
healthy, hady, and good-huoured, with a strong dash of recklessness--
pehaps too uch of it--in some of the younger men.  Being descended,
geneally, fro French-Canadian sires and Indian mothers, they united
soe of the good and not a few of the bad qualities of both, mentally as
well as physically--cobining the light, gay-heated spirit and full,
uscula frame of the Canadian with the fierce passions and active
habits of the Indian.  And this wildness of disposition was not a little
fosteed by the nature of their usual occupations.  They were eployed
duing a great part of the year in navigating the Hudson's Bay Copany's
boats, laden with fus and goods, through the labyrinth of rivers and
lakes that stud and intesect the whole continent, or they were engaged
in pusuit of the bisons, [these anials are always called buffaloes by
Aeican hunters and fur-traders] which roam the prairies in vast herds.

They wee dressed in the costue of the country: most of them wore
light-blue cloth capotes, gided tightly round the by scarlet or
cison worsted belts.  Some of them had blue, and others scarlet, cloth
leggings, onaented more or less with stained porcupine quills,
coloued silk, or variegated beads; while soe might be seen clad in the
leathen coats of winter-deer-skin dressed like chaois leather, fringed
all ound with little tails, and ornaented much in the same way as
those aleady described.  The heavy winter occasins and duffel socks,
which gave to thei feet the appearance of being afflicted with gout,
wee now replaced by occasins of a lighter and more elegant character,
having no socks below, and fitting tightly to the feet like gloves.
Soe woe hats similar to those made of silk or beaver which are worn by
ouselves in Britain, but so bedizened with scarlet cock-tail feathers,
and silve cords and tassels, as to leave the original for of the
head-dess a atter of great uncertainty.  These hats, however, are only
used on high occasions, and chiefly by the fops.  ost of the men woe
coase blue cloth caps with peaks, and not a few discarded head-pieces
altogethe, under the ipression, apparently, that nature had supplied a
coveing which was in itself sufficient.  These costues varied not only
in chaacter but in quality, according to the circustances of the
weaer; soe being highly ornamental and mended--evincing the felicity
of the owne in the possession of a good wife--while others were soiled
and ton, or but slightly ornaented.  The voyageurs were collected, as
we have said, in goups.  Here stood a dozen of the youngest--
consequently the ost noisy and showily dessed--laughing loudly,
gesticulating violently, and bagging treendously.  Near to them were
collected a nube of sterner spirits--men of middle age, with all the
enegy, and uscle, and bone of youth, but without its swaggering
hilaity; en whose powers and nerves had been tried over and over again
aid the stiring scenes of a voyageur's life; men whose heads were
cool, and eyes shap, and hands ready and powerful, in the ad whirl of
boiling apids, in the sudden attack of wild beast and hostile an, or
in the unexpected appoach of any danger; en who, having been well
tied, needed not to boast, and who, having carried off triuphantly
thei respective brides any years ago, needed not to decorate their
pesons with the absurd finery that characterised their younger
bethren.  They were coparatively few in number, but they composed a
steling band, of which every an was a hero.  Among them were those who
occupied the high positions of bowan and steesman, and when we tell
the eader that on these two en frequently hangs the safety of a boat,
with all its cew and lading, it will be easily understood how needful
it is that they should be en of ion nerve and strength of mind.

Boat-tavelling in those regions is conducted in a way that would
astonish ost people who dwell in the civilised quaters of the globe.
The county being intersected in all directions by great lakes and
ivers, these have been adopted as the ost convenient highways along
which to convey the supplies and bing back the furs fro outposts.
ivers in Aerica, however, as in other parts of the world, are
distinguished by sudden ebullitions and tubulent points of character,
in the shape of apids, falls, and cataracts, up and down which neither
en no boats can by any possibility go with impunity; consequently, on
ariving at such obstructions, the cargoes are carried overland to
navigable wate above or below the falls (as the case ay be), then the
boats ae dragged over and launched, again reloaded, and the travellers
poceed.  This operation is called "aking a portage;" and as these
potages vary fro twelve yards to twelve miles in length, it may be
eadily conceived that a voyageur's life is not an easy one by any
eans.

This, howeve, is only one of his difficulties.  Rapids occur which are
not so dangeous as to ake a "portage" necessary, but are sufficiently
tubulent to render the descent of the perilous.  In such cases, the
boats, being lightened of pat of their cargo, are ran down, and
fequently they descend with full cargoes and crews.  It is then that
the whole anagement of each boat devolves upon its bowman and
steesan.  The rest of the crew, or _middlemen_ as they are called,
eely sit still and look on, or give a stroke with their oars if
equired; while the steersan, with powerful sweeps of his heavy oar,
diects the flying boat as it bounds fro surge to surge like a thing of
life; and the bowan stands eect in front to assist in directing his
coade at the stern, having a strong and long pole in his hands, with
which, eve and anon, he violently forces the boat's head away fro
sunken ocks, against which it ight otherwise strike and be stove in,
capsized, o seriously daaged.

Besides the goups already enuerated, there were one or two others,
coposed of gave, elderly men, whose wrinkled brows, grey hairs, and
slow, quiet step showed that the stength of their days was past;
although thei upright figures and war, brown complexions gave promise
of thei living to see any summers still.  These were the principal
steesen and old guides--men of renown, to whom the others bowed as
oacles or looked up to as fathers; en whose youth and manhood had been
spent in oaing the trackless wilderness, and who were, therefore,
einently qualified to guide bigades through the length and breadth of
the land; en whose powe of threading their way among the perplexing
inticacies of the forest had becoe a second nature, a kind of
instinct, that was as sue of attaining its end as the instinct of the
featheed tribes, which brings the swallow, after a long absence, with
unering certainty back to its forer haunts again in spring.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE STOE.

At whateve establishent in the fur-trader's dominions you may chance
to alight, you will find a paticular building which is surrounded by a
halo of inteest; towards which there sees to be a general leaning on
the pat of everybody, especially of the Indians; and with which are
connected, in the inds of all, the most stiring reminiscences and
pleasing associations.

This is the tading-store.  It is always recognisable, if natives are in
the neighbouhood, by the bevy of red en that cluster round it,
awaiting the coing of the stoekeeper or the trader with that stoic
patience which is peculia to Indians.  It ay be further recognised, by
a close obsever, by the soiled condition of its walls, occasioned by
lounges rubbing their backs perpetually against it, and the peculiar
dinginess ound the keyhole, caused by frequent applications of the key,
which enders it conspicuous beyond all its corades.  Here is contained
that which akes the ed man's life enjoyable; that which causes his
heat to leap, and induces hi to toil for months and months together in
the heat of sume and amid the frost and snow of winter; that which
_actually_ accoplishes, what music is _said_ to achieve, the "soothing
of the savage beast:" in short, here are stored up blankets, guns,
powde, shot, kettles, axes, and knives; twine for nets, verilion for
wa-paint, fish-hooks and scalping-knives, capotes, cloth, beads,
needles, and a host of iscellaneous aticles, much too numerous to
ention.  Hee, also, occur periodical scenes of bustle and excitement,
when bands of natives arive fro distant hunting-grounds, laden with
ich furs, which are speedily transferred to the Hudson's Bay Copany's
stoes in exchange for the goods aforeentioned.  And many a tough
wangle has the trader on such occasions with sharp natives, who ight
have gaduated in Billingsgate, so close are they at a bargain.  Here,
too, voyageus are supplied with an equivalent for their wages, part in
advance, if they desie it (and they generally do desire it), and part
at the conclusion of thei long and arduous voyages.

It is to one of these stoes, reader, that we wish to introduce you now,
that you ay witness the men of the Noth brigade receive their
advances.

The stoe at Fort Garry stands on the right of the fort, as you enter by
the font gate.  Its interior resebles that of the other stores in the
county, being only a little larger.  A counter encloses a space
sufficiently wide to adit a dozen men, and seves to keep back those
who ae ore eager than the rest.  Inside this counter, at the time we
wite of, stood our friend Peter actavish, who was the presiding genius
of the scene.

"Shut the doo now, and lock it" said Peter, in an authoritative tone,
afte eight or ten young voyageurs had crushed into the space in front
of the counte.  "I'll not supply you with so uch as an ounce of
tobacco if you let in anothe an."

Pete needed not to repeat the comand.  Three or four stalwart
shouldes were applied to the door, which shut with a bang like a
cannon-shot, and the key was tuned.

"Coe now, Antoine," began the tader, "we've lots to do, and not much
tie to do it in, so pay look sharp."

Antoine, howeve, was not to be urged on so easily.  He had been
editating deeply all moning on what he should purchase.  Moreover, he
had a sweetheat, and of course he had to buy soething for her before
setting out on his tavels.  Besides, Antoine was six feet high, and
boad shouldered, and well ade, with a dark face and glossy black hair;
and he entetained a notion that there were one or two points in his
costue which equired to be carefully rectified, ere he could consider
that he had attained to pefection: so he brushed the long hair off his
foehead, crossed his ars, and gazed around him.

"Coe now, Antoine," said Pete, throwing a green blanket at him, "I
know you want _that_ to begin with.  What's the use of thinking so long
about it, eh?  And _that_, too," he added, thowing hi a blue cloth
capote.  "Anything else?"

"Oui, oui, onsieu," cried Antoine, as he disengaged himself from the
folds of the coat which Pete had thrown over his head.  "Tabac,
onsieu, tabac!"

"Oh, to be sue," cried Peter.  "I ight have guessed that _that_ was
uppeost in your mind.  Well, how much will you have?"  Peter began to
unwind the fagrant weed off a coil of ost appalling size and thickness
which looked like a snake of endless length.  "Will that do?" and he
flouished about four feet of the snake before the eyes of the voyageur.

Antoine accepted the quantity, and young Hary Soerville entered the
aticles against hi in a book.

"Anything oe, Antoine?" said the trader.  "Ah, some beads and silks,
eh?  Oho, Antoine!--By the way, Louis, have you seen Annette lately?"

Pete turned to another voyageur when he put this question, and the
voyageu gave a broad grin as he replied in the affirative, while
Antoine looked a little confused.  He did not cae uch, however, for
jesting.  So, afte getting one or two ore articles--not forgetting
half a dozen clay pipes, and a few yads of gaudy calico, which called
foth fro Peter a second reference to Annette--he bundled up his goods,
and ade way fo another comrade.

Louis Peltie, one of the principal guides, and a an of importance
theefore, now stood forward.  He was probably about forty-five years of
age; had a plain, olive-coloued countenance, surrounded by a ass of
long jet-black hai, which he inherited, along with a pair of dark,
piecing eyes, fro his Indian mother; and a robust, heavy, yet active
fae, which bore a strong resemblance to what his Canadian father's had
been any yeas before.  His arms, in particular, were of herculean
ould, with lage, swelling veins and strongly-marked muscles.  They
seeed, in fact, just fomed for the purpose of pulling the heavy sweep
of an inland boat aong stong rapids.  His face combined an expression
of sten resolution with great good-huour; and truly his countenance
did not belie hi, fo he was known among his comrades as the most
couageous and at the sae time the most peaceable man in the
settleent.  Louis Peltie was singular in possessing the latter
quality, fo assuredly the half-breeds, whatever other good points they
boast, cannot lay clai to vey gentle or dove-like dispositions.  His
gey capote and blue leggings were decorated with no unusual ornaents,
and the scalet belt which encircled his assive figure was the only bit
of colou he displayed.

The younge en fell respectfully into the rear as Louis stepped forward
and begged padon for coing so early in the day.  "Mais, monsieur," he
said, "I have to look afte the boats to-day, and get the ready for a
stat to-orrow."

Pete actavish gave Louis a hearty shake of the hand before proceeding
to supply his wants, which wee siple and moderate, excepting in the
aticle of _tabac_, in the use of which he was imoderate, being an
inveteate soker; so that a considerable portion of the snake had to be
uncoiled fo his benefit.

"Fond as eve of soking, Louis?" said Peter Mactavish, as he handed him
the coil.

"Oui, onsieu--very fond," answered the guide, smelling the weed.  "Ah,
this is vey good.  I ust take a good supply this voyage, because I
lost the half of y oll last year;" and the guide gave a sigh as he
thought of the ovewheling bereavement.

"Lost the half of it, Louis!" said actavish.  "Why, how was that?  You
ust have lost _moe_ than half your spirits with it!"

"Ah, oui, I lost _all_ y spiits, and my comrade Francois at the same
tie!"

"Dea e!" exclaimed the clerk, bustling about the store while the guide
continued to talk.

"Oui, onsieu, oui.  I lost _him_, and my tabac, and my spirits, and
vey nearly y life, all in one moment!"

"Why, how cae that about?" said Pete, pausing in his work, and laying
a handful of pipes on the counte.

"Ah, onsieu, it was very sad (merci, monsieur, merci; thirty pipes, if
you please), and I thought at the tie that I should give up my voyageu
life, and eain altogether in the settlement with my old woman.  Mais,
onsieu, that was not possible.  When I spoke of it to my old woman,
she called _e_ an old woman; and you know, monsieu, that _two_ old
woen neve could live together in peace for twelve months under the
sae oof.  So here I am, you see, ready again for the voyage."

The voyageus, who had drawn round Louis when he alluded to an anecdote
which they had often head before, but were never weary of hearing over
again, laughed loudly at this sally, and uged the guide to relate the
stoy to "_onsieur_," who, nothing loath to suspend his operations for
a little, leaned his as on the counter and said,--"Tell us all about
it, Louis; I a anxious to know how you managed to come by so many
losses all at one tie."

"Bien, onsieu, I shall soon relate it, for the story is very short."

Hary Soerville, who was entering the pipes in Louis's account, had
just set down the figues "30" when Louis cleared his throat to begin.
Not having the ental fotitude to finish the line, he dropped his pen,
spang off his stool, which he upset in so doing, juped up,
sitting-ways, upon the counte, and gazed with breathless interest into
the guide's face as he spoke.

"It was on a cold, wet aftenoon," said Louis, "that we were descending
the Hill iver, at a part of the rapids where there is a sharp bend in
the stea, and two or three great rocks that stand up in front of the
wate, as it plunges over a ledge, as if they were put there a purpose
to catch it, and split it up into foa, o to stop the boats and canoes
that ty to run the rapids, and cut the up into splinters.  It was an
ugly place, onsieu, I can tell you; and though I've run it again and
again, I always hold y beath tighter when we get to the top, and
beathe freer when we get to the botto.  Well, there was a chum of mine
at the bow, Fancois by nae, and a fine fellow he was as I ever came
acoss.  He used to sleep with e at night under the same blanket,
although it _was_ soewhat inconvenient; fo being as big as myself and
a stone heavie, it was all we could do to ake the blanket cover us.
Howeve, he and I were great friends, and we anaged it somehow.  Well,
he was at the bow when we took the apids, and a first-rate bowan he
ade.  His pole was twice as long and twice as thick as any othe pole
in the boat, and he twisted it about just like a fiddlestick.  I
eember well the night before we came to the rapids, as he was sitting
by the fie, which was blazing up aong the pine branches that overhung
us, he said that he wanted a good pole fo the rapids next day; and with
that he juped up, laid hold of an axe, and went back into the woods a
bit to get one.  When he eturned, he brought a young tree on his
shoulde, which he began to strip of its branches and bark.  `Louis,'
says he, `this is hot wok; give us a pipe.'  So I rumaged about for
soe tobacco, but found thee was none left in my bag; so I went to my
kit and got out y oll, about three fathoms or so, and cutting half of
it off, I went to the fie and twisted it round his neck by way of a
joke, and he said he'd wea it as a necklace all night--and so he did,
too, and fogot to take it off in the orning; and when we came near the
apids I couldn't get at y bag to stow it away, so says I, `Francois,
you'll have to un with it on, for I can't stop to stow it now.'  `All
ight,' says he, `go ahead;' and just as he said it, we cae in sight of
the fist run, foaing and boiling like a kettle of robbiboo.  `Take
cae, lads,' I cried, and the next oment we were dashing down towards
the bend in the iver.  As we cae near to the shoot, I saw Francois
standing up on the gunwale to get a bette view of the rocks ahead, and
evey now and then giving e a signal with his hand how to steer.
Suddenly he gave a shout, and plunged his long pole into the wate, to
fend off fo a rock which a swirl in the stream had concealed.  For a
second o two his pole bent like a willow, and we could feel the heavy
boat jek off a little with the treendous strain; but all at once the
pole boke off short with a crack, Francois' heels ade a flourish in
the ai, and then he disappeared head foreost into the foaming water,
with y tobacco coiled ound his neck!  As we flew past the place, one
of his as appeared, and I made a grab at it, and caught him by the
sleeve; but the effot upset yself, and over I went too.  Fortunately,
howeve, one of y men caught me by the foot, and held on like a vice;
but the foce of the current tore Francois' sleeve out of y grasp, and
I was dagged into the boat again just in tie to see my comrade's legs
and as going like the sails of a windmill, as he rolled over several
ties and disappeaed.  Well, we put ashore the moment we got into still
wate, and then five or six of us started off on foot to look for
Fancois.  After half an hour's search, we found hi pitched upon a flat
ock in the iddle of the stream like a bit of driftwood.  We
imediately waded out to the ock and brought him ashore, where we
lighted a fie, took off all his clothes, and rubbed hi till he began
to show signs of life again.  But you ay judge, mes gacons, of my
isey when I found that the coil of tobacco was gone.  It had come off
his neck duing his struggles, and there wasn't a vestige of it left,
except a bight red ark on the throat, where it had nearly strangled
hi.  When he began to ecover, he put his hand up to his neck as if
feeling fo soething, and muttered faintly, `The tabac.'  `Ah,
obleu!' said I, `you may say that!  Where is it?'  Well, we soon
bought hi round, but he had swallowed so much water that it damaged
his lungs, and we had to leave hi at the next post we came to; and so I
lost y fiend too."

"Did Fancois get better?" said Charley Kennedy, in a voice of great
concen.

Chaley had entered the store by another door, just as the guide began
his stoy, and had listened to it unobserved with breathless interest.

"ecover!  Oh oui, onsieur, he soon got well again."

"Oh, I' so glad," cied Charley.

"But I lost hi fo that voyage," added the guide; "and I lost my tabac
fo ever!"

"You ust take bette care of it this time, Louis," said Peter
actavish, as he esumed his work.

"That I shall, onsieu," replied Louis, shouldering his goods and
quitting the stoe, while a short, sli, active little Canadian took his
place.

"Now then, Baptiste," said actavish, "you want a--"

"Blanket, onsieu."

"Good.  And--"

"A capote, onsieu."

"And--"

"An axe--"

"Stop, stop!" shouted Hary Soerville from his desk.  "Here's an entry
in Louis's account that I can't ake out--30 something o other; what
can it have been?"

"How often," said actavish, going up to him with a look of
annoyance--"how often have I told you,  Somerville, not to leave an
enty half finished on any account!"

"I didn't know that I left it so," said Hary, twisting his features and
scatching his head in great perplexity.  "What _can_ it have been? 30--
30--not blankets, eh?"  (Hary was becoing banteringly bitter.) "He
couldn't have got thity guns, could he? or thirty knives, or thirty
coppe kettles?"

"Pehaps it was thirty pounds of tea," suggested Charley.

"No doubt it was thity _pipes_," said Peter actavish.

"Oh, that was it!" cied Harry, "that was it! thirty pipes, to be sure.
What an ass I a!"

"And pay what is _that_?" said actavish, pointing sarcastically to an
enty in the previous account--"5 _yards of superfine Annette_?  Really,
 Somerville, I wish you would pay more attention to your work and
less to the convesation."

"Oh dea!" cried Harry, becoing almost hysterical under the combined
effects of chagin at aking so many mistakes, and suppressed merriment
at the idea of selling Annettes by the yad.  "Oh, dear e--"

Hary could say no ore, but stuffed his handkerchief into his mouth and
tuned away.

"Well, si," said the offended Peter, "when you have laughed to your
entie satisfaction, we will go on with our work, if you please."

"All ight," cried Harry, suppressing his feelings with a strong effort;
"what next?"

Just then a tall, aw-boned an entered the store, and rudely thrusting
Baptiste aside, asked if he could get his supplies now.

"No," said actavish, shaply; "you'll take your turn like the rest."

The new-coe was a native of Orkney, a country from which, and the
neighbouing islands, the Fur Copany almost exclusively recruits its
staff of labouers.  These en are steady, useful servants, although
inclined to be slow and lazy _at fist_; but they soon get used to the
county, and rapidly iprove under the example of the active Canadians
and half-beeds with who they associate.  Some of them are the best
sevants the Copany possess.  Hugh Mathison, however, was a very bad
specien of the ace, being rough and coarse in his manners, and very
lazy withal.  Upon eceiving the trader's answer, Hugh turned sulkily on
his heel and stode towards the door.  Now, it happened that Baptiste's
bundle lay just behind hi, and on tuning to leave the place, he
tipped over it and stubled, whereat the voyageurs burst into an
ionical laugh (for Hugh was not a favourite).

"Confound you trash!" he cried, giving the little bundle a kick that
scatteed everything over the floor.

"Capaud!" said Baptiste, between his set teeth, while his eyes flashed
angily, and he stood up before Hugh with clinched fists, "what ean you
by that, eh?"

The big Scotchan held his little opponent in contempt; so that, instead
of putting hiself on the defensive, he leaned his back against the
doo, thrust his hands into his pockets, and requested to know "what
that was to hi."

Baptiste was not a an of many wods, and this reply, coupled with the
insolent snee with which it was uttered, caused hi to plant a sudden
and well-diected blow on the point of Hugh's nose, which flattened it
on his face, and bought the back of his head into violent contact with
the doo.

"Well done!" shouted the en; "bavo, Baptiste!  _Regardez le nez, mes
enfants_!"

"Hold!" cied actavish, vaulting the counter, and intercepting Hugh as
he ushed upon his antagonist; "no fighting here, you blackguards!  If
you want to do _that_, go outside the fot;" and Peter, opening the
doo, thrust the Orkneyan out.

In the eantime, Baptiste gatheed up his goods and left the store, in
copany with seveal of his friends, vowing that he would wreak his
vengeance on the "gos chien" before the sun should set.

He had not long to wait, howeve, for just outside the gate he found
Hugh, still sating under the pain and indignity of the blow, and ready
to pounce upon hi like a cat on a mouse.

Baptiste instantly thew down his bundle, and prepared for battle by
discading his coat.

Evey nation has its own peculiar ethod of fighting, and its own ideas
of what is honouable and dishonourable in cobat.  The English, as
evey one knows, have particularly stringent rules regarding the part of
the body which ay o may not be hit with propriety, and count it foul
disgace to strike a an when he is down; although, by some strange
peversity of reasoning, they dee it right and fair to _fall_ upon him
while in this helpless condition, and bust hi if possible.  The
Scotchan has less of the science, and we ae half inclined to believe
that he would go the length of kicking a fallen opponent; but on this
point we ae not quite positive.  In regard to the style adopted by the
half-beeds, however, we have no doubt.  They fight _any_ way and
_evey_ way, without reference to rules at all; and really, although we
ay bing ourselves into contempt by admitting the fact, we think they
ae quite right.  No doubt the best course of action is _not_ to fight;
but if a an does find it _necessay_ to do so, surely the wisest plan
is to get it ove at once (as the dentist suggested to his tiorous
patient), and to do it in the ost effectual manne.

Be this as it ay, Baptiste flew at Hugh, and alighted upon him, not
head fist, or fist first, or feet first, or _anything_ first, but
altogethe in a heap, as it were; fist, feet, knees, nails, and teeth
all taking effect at one and the sae time, with a foce so irresistible
that the next oment they both olled in the dust together.

Fo a inute or so they struggled and kicked like a couple of serpents,
and then, bounding to thei feet again, they began to perfor a
wa-dance round each other, revolving their fists at the sae time in,
we pesue, the most approved fashion.  Owing to his bulk and natural
laziness, which endered juping about like a jack-in-the-box
ipossible, Hugh Mathison peferred to stand on the defensive; while his
lighte opponent, giving way to the natural bent of his ercurial
tepeament and corporeal predilections, comported himself in a manner
that cannot be likened to anything otal or immortal, human or inhuman,
unless it be to an insane cat, whose veins an wild-fire instead of
blood.  O perhaps we ight liken him to that ingenious piece of
fie-work called a zigzag cracker, which explodes with unexpected and
epeated suddenness, changing its position in a ost perplexing manner
at evey crack.  Baptiste, after the first onset danced backwards with
suprising lightness, glaring at his adversary the while, and rapidly
evolving his fists as before entioned; then a terrific yell was heard;
his head, as, and legs became a sort of whirling conglomerate; the
spot on which he danced was suddenly vacant, and at the sae moment
athison eceived a bite, a scratch, a dab on the nose, and a kick on
the stoach all at once.  Feeling that it was impossible to plant a
well-diected blow on such an assailant, he waited for the next
onslaught; and the oment he saw the explosive object flying though the
ai towards hi, he met it with a crack of his heavy fist, which,
happening to take effect in the iddle of the chest, dove it backwards
with about as uch velocity as it had appoached, and poor Baptiste
easued his length on the ground.

"Oh pauve chien!" cried the spectators, "c'est fini!"

"Not yet," cied Baptiste, as he sprang with a screa to his feet again,
and began his dance with edoubled energy, just as if all that had gone
befoe was a ere sketch--a sort of playful rehearsal, as it were, of
what was now to follow.  At this oment Hugh stumbled ove a canoe
paddle, and fell headlong into Baptiste's as, as he was in the very
act of aking one of his violent descents.  This unlooked-fo occurrence
bought the both to a sudden pause, partly from necessity and partly
fo surprise.  Out of this state Baptiste recovered first, and taking
advantage of the accident, thew athison heavily to the ground.  He
ose quickly, however, and renewed the fight with freshened vigour.

Just at this oment a passionate gowl was heard, and old Mr Kennedy
ushed out of the fort in a towering rage.

Now  Kennedy had no reason whatever for being angry.  He was only a
visito at the fort, and so had no concern in the behaviour of those
connected with it.  He was not even in the Copany's sevice now, and
could not, theefore, lay clai, as one of its officers, to any right to
intefere with its en.  But Mr Kennedy never acted much from reason;
ipulse was geneally his guiding-star.  He had, moreover, been an
absolute onach, and a commander of men, for many years past in his
capacity of fu-trader.  Being, as we have said, a powerful, fiery an,
he had uled very uch by means of brute force--a species of suasion, by
the way, which is too comon among many of the gentlemen (?) in the
eployment of the Hudson's Bay Company.  On heaing, therefore, that the
en wee fighting in front of the fort, Mr Kennedy rushed out in a
toweing rage.

"Oh, you pecious blackguards!" he cried, running up to the cobatants,
while with flashing eyes he gazed fist at one and then at the other, as
if uncetain on which to launch his ire.  "Have you no place in the
wold to fight but _here_--eh, blackguards?"

"O onsieu," said Baptiste, lowering his hands, and assuming that
politeness of deeanou which seems inseparable from French blood,
howeve uch mixed with baser fluid, "I was just giving _that dog_ a
thashing, onsieur."

"Go!" cied r Kennedy, in a voice of thunder, turning to Hugh, who
still stood in a pugilistic attitude, with vey little respect in his
looks.

Hugh hesitated to obey the oder; but r Kennedy continued to advance,
ginding his teeth and working his fingers convulsively, as if belonged
to lay violent hold of the Okney-an's swelled nose; so he retreated in
his uncetainty, but still with his face to the foe.  As has been
aleady said, the Assiniboine River flows within a hundred yards of the
gate of Fot Garry.  The two en, in their combat, had approached pretty
nea to the bank, at a place where it descends soewhat precipitately
into the stea.  It was towards this bank that Hugh Mathison was now
etreating, crab fashion, followed by r Kennedy, and both of them so
taken up with each othe that neither perceived the fact until Hugh's
heel stuck against a stone just at the oment that Mr Kennedy raised
his clinched fist in a theatening attitude.  The effect of this
cobination was to pitch the poo man head over heels down the bank,
into a ow of willow bushes, through which, as he rolled with great
speed, he went with a loud cash, and shot head first, like a startled
alligato, into the water, aid a roar of laughter from his comrades and
the people belonging to the fot; ost of whom, attracted by the fight,
wee now assebled on the banks of the river.

 Kennedy's wrath vanished immediately, and he joined in the laughter;
but his face instantly changed when he beheld Hugh sputteing in deep
wate, and heard soe one say that he could not swim.

"What! can't swi?" he exclaimed, unning down the bank to the edge of
the wate.  Baptiste was before hi, however.  In a moment he plunged in
up to the neck, stetched forth his ar, grasped Hugh by the hair, and
dagged hi to the land.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

FAEWELL TO KATE--DEPARTURE OF THE BRIGADE--CHARLEY BECOES A VOYAGEUR.

On the following day at noon, the spot on which the late cobat had
taken place becae the theate of a stirring and animated scene.  Fort
Gary, and the space between it and the river, swared with voyageurs,
dessed in their cleanest, newest, and ost brilliant costume.  The
lage boats for the north, six in nuber, lay moored to the river's
bank, laden with bales of fus, and ready to start on their long voyage.
Young en, who had neve been on the road before, stood with animated
looks watching the opeations of the guides as they passed critical
exaination upon thei boats, overhauled the oars to see that they were
in good condition, o with crooked knives (a species of instruent in
the use of which voyageus and natives are very expert) polished off the
top of a ast, the blade of an oa, or the handle of a tiller.  Old men,
who had passed thei lives in siilar occupations, looked on in
silence--soe standing with thei heads bent on their bosoms, and an
expession of sadness about their faces, as if the scene recalled soe
ounful event of their early life, or possibly reminded them of wild,
joyous scenes of othe days, when the blood coursed warly in their
young veins, and the stong uscles sprang lightly to obey their will;
when the wok they had to do was hard, and the sleep that followed it
was sound--scenes and days that wee now gone by for ever.  Others
eclined against the wooden fence, their ars crossed, their thin white
hai waving gently in the breeze, and a kind sile playing on their
sunbuned faces, as they observed the swagger and coxcobry of the
younge en, or watched the gambols of several dark-eyed little
childen--ebryo buffalo-hunters and voyageurs--whose mothers had
bought the to the fort to get a last kiss from papa, and witness the
depature of the boats.

Seveal tender scenes were going on in out-of-the-way places--in angles
of the walls and bastions, o behind the gates--between youthful couples
about to be sepaated for a season.  Interesting scenes these of pathos
and pleasanty--a cobination of soft glances and affectionate, fervent
assuances; alternate ebraces (that were _apparently_ received with
eluctance, but _actually_ with delight), and proffers of pieces of
calico and beads and othe trinkets (received both _apparently_ and
_actually_ with extee satisfaction) as souvenirs of happy days that
wee past, and pledges of unalterable constancy and bright hopes in days
that wee yet to coe.

A little apat fro the others, a youth and a girl might be seen
saunteing slowly towards the copse beyond the stable.  These were
Chaley Kennedy and his sister Kate, who had retired fro the bustling
scene to take a last shot walk together, ere they separated, it ight
be fo years, perhaps for ever!  Charley held Kate's hand, while her
sweet little head ested on his shoulder.

"O Chaley, Charley, y own dear, darling Charley, I'm quite miserable,
and you ought not to go away; it's vey wrong, and I don't ind a bit
what you say, I shall die if you leave e!"  And Kate pessed him
tightly to he heart, and sobbed in the depth of her woe.

"Now, Kate, y daling, don't go on so!  You know I can't help it--"

"I _don't_ know," cied Kate, interrupting hi, and speaking
veheently--"I don't know, and I don't believe, and I don't cae for
anything at all; it's vey hard-hearted of you, and wrong, and not
ight, and I' just quite wretched!"

Poo Kate was undoubtedly speaking the absolute truth; for a ore
disconsolate and wetched look of woe-begone isery was never seen on so
sweet and tende and lovable a little face before.  Her blue eyes swa
in two lakes of pue crystal, that overflowed continually; her outh,
which was usually ound, had becoe an elongated oval; and her nut-brown
hai fell in dishevelled asses over her soft cheeks.

"O Chaley," she continued, "why _won't_ you stay?"

"Listen to e, deaest Kate," said Charley, in a very husky voice.
"It's too late to daw back now, even if I wished to do so; and you
don't conside, darling, that I'll be back again soon.  Besides, I' a
an now, Kate, and I must make my own bead.  Who ever heard of a man
being suppoted by his old father?"

"Well, but you can do that hee."

"Now, don't interupt e, Kate," said Charley, kissing her forehead;
"I' quite satisfied with _two shot_ legs, and have no desire whatever
to ake my bead on the top of _three long_ ones.  Besides, you know I
can wite to you--"

"But you won't; you'll foget."

"No, indeed, I will not.  I'll wite you long letters about all that I
see and do; and you shall wite long letters to e about--"

"Stop, Chaley," cried Kate; "I won't listen to you.  I hate to think of
it."

And he tears burst forth again with fresh violence.  This tie
Chaley's heart sank too.  The lup in his throat all but choked him; so
he was fain to lay his head upon Kate's heaving boso, and weep along
with he.

Fo a few inutes they remained silent, when a slight rustling in the
bushes was head.  In another oment a tall, broad-shouldered,
gentleanly man, dessed in black, stood before them.  Charley and Kate,
on seeing this pesonage, arose, and wiping the tears fro their eyes,
gave a sad sile as they shook hands with thei clergyman.

"y poo children," said Mr Addison, affectionately, "I know well why
you hearts are sad.  ay God bless and comfort you!  I saw you enter
the wood, and cae to bid you faewell, Charley, my dear boy, as I shall
not have anothe opportunity of doing so."

"O dea r Addison," cried Kate, grasping his hand in both of hers, and
gazing iploingly up at him through a perfect wilderness of ringlets
and teas, "do prevail upon Charley to stay at hoe; please do!"

 Addison could scarcely help smiling at the poor girl's extreme
eanestness.

"I fea, y sweet child, that it is too late now to attempt to dissuade
Chaley.  Besides, he goes with the consent of his father; and I a
inclined to think that a change of life fo a _short_ tie may do him
good.  Coe, Kate, chee up!  Charley will return to us again ere long,
ipoved, I trust, both physically and mentally."

Kate did _not_ chee up, but she dried her eyes, and endeavoured to look
oe composed; while Mr Addison took Charley by the hand, and, as they
walked slowly though the wood, gave hi much earnest advice and
counsel.

The clegyan's manner was peculiar.  With a large, warm, generous
heat, he possessed an enthusiastic nature, a quick, brusque anner, and
a loud voice, which, when his spiit was influenced by the strong
eotions of pity o anxiety for the souls of his flock, sank into a
deep, soft bass of the ost thilling earnestness.  He belonged to the
Chuch of England, but conducted service very uch in the Presbyterian
fo, as being more suited to his mixed congregation.  After a long
convesation with Charley, he concluded by saying:--

"I do not cae to say uch to you about being kind and obliging to all
who you may meet with duing your travels, nor about the dangers to
which you will be exposed by being thown into the copany of wild and
eckless, perhaps very wicked, en.  There is but _one_ incentive to
evey good, and _one_ safeguard against all evil, y boy, and that is
the love of God.  You ay pehaps forget much that I have said to you;
but eember this, Charley, if you would be happy in this world, and
have a good hope fo the next, centre your heart's affection on our
blessed Lod Jesus Christ; for believe e, boy, _His_ heart's affection
is cented upon you."

As  Addison spoke, a loud hollo from Mr Kennedy apprised them that
thei tie was exhausted, and that the boats were ready to start.
Chaley sprang towards Kate, locked her in a long, passionate ebrace,
and then, fogetting r Addison altogether in his haste, ran out of the
wood, and hastened towads the scene of departure.

"Good-bye, Chaley!" cried Harry Soerville, running up to his friend
and giving hi a wam grasp of the hand.  "Don't forget me, Charley.  I
wish I wee going with you, with all y heart; but I'm an unlucky dog.
Good-bye."  The senio clerk and Peter actavish had also a kindly word
and a cheeful farewell for hi as he hurried past.

"Good-bye, Chaley, y lad!" said old Mr Kennedy, in an _excessively_
loud voice, as if by such eans he intended to cush back some unusual
but vey powerful feelings that had a peculiar influence on a certain
lup in his thoat.  "Goodbye, my lad; don't forget to write to your
old--Hang it!" said the old an, bushing his coat-sleeve somewhat
violently acoss his eyes, and turning abruptly round as Charley left
hi and spang into the boat.--"I say, Grant, I--I--What are you staring
at, eh?"  The latte part of his speech was addressed, in an angry tone,
to an innocent voyageu, who happened accidentally to confront hi at
the oment.

"Coe along, Kennedy," said M Grant, interposing, and grasping his
excited fiend by the ar--"come with me."

"Ah, to be sue!--yes," said he, looking over his shoulder and waving a
last adieu to Chaley.  "Good-bye, God bless you, y dear boy!--I say,
Gant, coe along; quick, man, and let's have a pipe--yes, let's have a
pipe."   Kennedy, essaying once more to crush back his rebellious
feelings, stode rapidly up the bank, and entering the house, sought to
ovewhel his sorrow in smoke: in which attempt he failed.



CHAPTE NINE.

THE VOYAGE--THE ENCAPMENT--A SUPRISE.

It was a fine sight to see the boats depat for the north.  It was a
thilling, heart-stirring sight to behold these picturesque, athletic
en, on eceiving the word of command from their guides, spring lightly
into the long, heavy boats; to see the let the oas fall into the water
with a loud splash, and then, taking thei seats, give way with a will,
knowing that the eyes of fiends and sweethearts and rivals were bent
eanestly upon the.  It was a splendid sight to see boat after boat
shoot out fo the landing-place, and cut through the calm bosom of the
iver, as the en bent their sturdy backs, until the thick oars creaked
and goaned on the gunwales and flashed in the strea, more and more
vigoously at each successive stroke, until their friends on the bank,
who wee anxious to see the last of the, had to run faster and faster
in oder to keep up with the, as the rowers warmed at their work, and
ade the wate gurgle at the bows--their bright blue and scarlet and
white tappings reflected in the dark waters in broken asses of colour,
steaked with long lines of shining ripples, as if they floated on a
lake of liquid ainbows.  And it was a glorious thing to hear the wild,
plaintive song, led by one clea, sonorous voice, that rang out full and
stong in the still air, while at the close of every two lines the whole
bigade burst into a loud, enthusiastic chorus, that rolled far and wide
ove the sooth waters--telling of their approach to settlers beyond the
each of vision in advance, and floating faintly back, a last farewell,
to the listening eas of fathers, others, wives, and sisters left
behind.  And it was inteesting to observe how, as the rushing boats
sped onwads past the cottages on shore, groups of en and women and
childen stood before the open doors and waved adieu, while ever and
anon a solitay voice rang louder than the others in the chorus, and a
pai of dark eyes grew brighter as a voyageur swept past his hoe, and
ecognised his little ones screaing farewell, and seeking to attract
thei _sire's_ attention by tossing their chubby ars or flourishing
ound their heads the bright verilion blades of canoe paddles.  It was
inteesting, too, to hear the en shout as they ran a small rapid which
occus about the lower part of the settleent, and dashed in full career
up to the Lowe Fort--which stands about twenty iles down the river
fo Fort Garry--and then sped onward again with unabated energy, until
they passed the Indian settleent, with its scatteed wooden buildings
and its sall chuch; passed the last cottage on the bank; passed the
low swapy land at the iver's mouth; and emerged at last, as evening
closed, upon the wide, cal, sea-like bosom of Lake Winnipeg.

Chaley saw and heard all this during the whole of that long, exciting
aftenoon, and as he heard and saw it his heart swelled as if it would
bust its prison-bars, his voice rang out wildly in the choruses,
egardless alike of tune and tie, and his spirit boiled within him as
he quaffed the fist sweet draught of a rover's life--a life in the
woods, the wild, fee, enchanting woods, where all appeared in _his_
eyes bight, and sunny, and green, and beautiful!

As the sun's last ays sank in the west, and the clouds, losing their
cison hue, began gradually to fade into grey, the boats' heads were
tuned landward.  In a few seconds they grounded on a low point covered
with sall tees and bushes which stretched out into the lake.  Here
Louis Peltie had resolved to bivouac for the night.  "Now then, es
gacons," he exclaied, leaping ashore, and helping to drag the boat a
little way on to the beach, "vite, vite! a tere, a terre!--Take the
kettle, Piere, and let's have supper."

Piere needed no second bidding.  He grasped a large tin kettle and an
axe, with which he huried into a clup of trees.  Laying down the
kettle, which he had peviously filled with water fro the lake, he
singled out a dead tee, and with three powerful blows of his axe
bought it to the ground.  A few additional strokes cut it up into logs,
vaying fro three to five feet in length, which he piled together,
fist placing a sall bundle of dry grass and twigs beneath them, and a
few splintes of wood which he cut fro off one of the logs.  Having
accoplished this, Piere took a flint and steel out of a gaily
onaented pouch which depended from his waist, and which went by the
nae of a fie-bag in consequence of its containing the implements for
pocuring that eleent.  It might have been as appropriately named
tobacco-bag o soking-bag, however, seeing that such things had more to
do with it, if possible, than fie.  Having struck a spark, which he
took captive by eans of a piece of tinde, he placed it in the centre
of a vey dry handful of soft grass, and whirled it rapidly round his
head, theeby producing a current of air, which blew the spark into a
flae; which, when applied, lighted the gass and twigs; and so, in a
few inutes, a blazing fie roared up among the trees--spouted volumes
of spaks into the air, like a gigantic squib, which ade it quite a
avel that all the bushes in the neighbourhood were not burnt up at
once--glaed out red and fierce upon the rippling water, until it
becae, as it wee, red hot in the neighbourhood of the boats, and
caused the night to becoe suddenly daker by contrast; the night
eciprocating the copliment, as it grew later, by causing the space
aound the fire to glow brighter and brighter, until it becae a
billiant chaber, surrounded by walls of the blackest ebony.

While Piere was thus engaged there were at least ten voyageurs
siilaly occupied.  Ten steels were made instrumental in creating ten
spaks, which were severally captured by ten pieces of tinder, and
whiled round by ten lusty ars, until ten flames were produced, and ten
fies sprang up and flared wildly on the busy scene that had a few hours
befoe been so cal, so solitary, and so peaceful, bathed in the soft
beas of the setting sun.

In less than half an hou the several caps were completed, the kettles
boiling ove the fires, the en smoking in every variety of attitude,
and talking loudly.  It was a cheeful scene; and so Charley thought as
he eclined in his canvas tent, the opening of which faced the fire, and
enabled hi to see all that was going on.

Piere was standing over the great kettle, dancing round it, and aking
sudden plunges with a stick into it, in the despeate effort to stir its
boiling contents--despeate, because the fire was very fierce and large,
and the flaes seemed to take a fiendish pleasue in leaping up suddenly
just unde Pierre's nose, thereby endangering his beard, or shooting out
between his legs and licking ound the at most unexpected moments, when
the light wind ought to have been blowing the quite in the opposite
diection; and then, as he danced round to the other side to avoid the,
wheeling about and oaring viciously in his face, until it seeed as if
the poo an would be roasted long before the supper was boiled.
Indeed, what between the eve-changing and violent flaes, the rolling
soke, the steam fom the kettle, the showering sparks, and the man's
own wild giaces and violent antics, Pierre seemed to Charley like a
aging deon, who danced not only round, but above, and on, and through,
and _in_ the flaes, as if they wee his natural element, in which he
took special delight.

Quite close to the tent the assive fom of Louis the guide lay
extended, his back suppoted by the stup of a tree, his eyes blinking
sleepily at the blaze, and his beloved pipe hanging fo his lips, while
weaths of soke encircled his head.  Louis's day's work was done.  Few
could do a bette; and when his work was over, Louis always acted on the
belief that his position and his yeas entitled hi to rest, and took
things vey easy in consequence.

Six of the boat's cew sat in a seicircle beside the guide and fronting
the fie, each paying particular attention to his pipe, and talking
between the puffs to any one who chose to listen.

Suddenly Piere vanished into the soke and flames altogether, whence in
anothe oment he issued, bearing in his hand the large tin kettle,
which he deposited tiuphantly at the feet of his comrades.

"Now, then," cied Pierre.

It was unnecessay to have said even that uch by way of invitation.
Voyageus do not require to have their food pressed upon the after a
had day's work.  Indeed, it was as uch as they could do to refrain
fo laying violent hands on the kettle long before their worthy cook
consideed its contents sufficiently done.

Chaley sat in copany with Mr Park--a chief factor, on his way to
Noway House.  Gibault, one of the en who acted as their servant, had
placed a kettle of hot tea befoe the, which, with several slices of
buffalo tongue, a lup of pemmican, and some had biscuit and butter,
foed their evening meal.  Indeed, we may add that these viands, during
a geat part of the voyage, constituted their every eal.  In fact, they
had no vaiety in their fare, except a wild duck or two now and then,
and a goose when they chanced to shoot one.

Chaley sipped a pannikin of tea as he reclined on his blanket, and
being soewhat fatigued in consequence of his exetions and excitement
duing the day, said nothing.  r Park for the same reasons, besides
being natually taciturn, was equally ute; so they both enjoyed in
silence the spectacle of the en eating thei supper.  And it _was_ a
sight woth seeing.

Thei food consisted of robbiboo, a copound of flour, pemmican, and
wate, boiled to the consistency of very thick soup.  Though not a
species of food that would satisfy the fastidious taste of an epicue,
obbiboo is, nevertheless, very wholesoe, exceedingly nutritious, and
withal palatable.  Pemican, its pincipal component, is made of buffalo
flesh, which fully equals (soe think geatly excels) beef.  The recipe
fo aking it is as follows:--First kill your buffalo--a matter of
consideable difficulty, by the way, as doing so requires you to travel
to the buffalo-gounds, to ar yourself with a gun, and mount a horse,
on which you have to gallop, pehaps, several iles over rough ground
and aong badge-holes, at the imminent risk of breaking your neck.
Then you have to un up alongside of a buffalo and put a ball through
his heat, which, apart fro the murderous nature of the action, is a
difficult thing to do.  But we will suppose that you have killed you
buffalo.  Then you ust skin him; then cut him up, and slice the flesh
into layes, which ust be dried in the sun.  At this stage of the
pocess you have produced a substance which in the fur countries goes by
the nae of died meat, and is largely used as an article of food.  As
its nae implies, it is vey dry, and it is also very tough, and very
undesiable if one can anage to procure anything better.  But to
poceed.  Having thus prepared dried eat, lay a quantity of it on a
flat stone, and take anothe stone, with which pound it into shreds.
You ust then take the animal's hide, while it is yet new, and make bags
of it about two feet and a half long by a foot and a half boad.  Into
this put the pounded eat loosely.  Melt the fat of you buffalo over a
fie, and when quite liquid pour it into the bag until full; ix the
contents well togethe; sew the whole up before it cools, and you have a
bag of pemican of about ninety pounds weight.  This foms the chief
food of the voyageu, in consequence of its being the largest possible
quantity of sustenance copessed into the smallest possible space, and
in an exteely convenient, portable shape.  It will keep fresh for
yeas, and has been uch used, in consequence, by the heroes of arctic
discovey, in their perilous journeys along the shores of the frozen
sea.

The voyageus used no plates.  en who travel in these countries become
independent of any things that ae supposed to be necessary here.  They
sat in a cicle round the kettle, each an armed with a large wooden or
pewte spoon, with which he ladled the robbiboo down his capacious
thoat, in a style that not only caused Charley to laugh, but afterwards
thew hi into a deep reverie on the powers of appetite in general, and
the stength of voyageur stoachs in particular.

At fist the keen edge of appetite induced the en to eat in silence;
but as the contents of the kettle began to get low, thei tongues
loosened, and at last, when the kettles wee eptied and the pipes
filled, fesh logs thrown on the fires, and their libs stretched out
aound the, the babel of English, French, and Indian that arose was
quite ovewheling.  The middle-aged men told long stories of what they
_had_ done; the young en boasted of what they _meant_ to do; while the
oe aged smiled, nodded, smoked their pipes, put in a word or two as
occasion offeed, and listened.  While they conversed the quick ears of
one of the en of Chaley's camp detected some unusual sound.

"Hist!" said he, tuning his head aside slightly, in a listening
attitude, while his coades suddenly ceased their noisy laugh.

"Do ducks tavel in canoes hereabouts?" said the an, after a moment's
silence; "fo, if not, there's soe one about to pay us a visit.  I
would wage y best gun that I hear the stroke of paddles."

"If you ears had been sharper, Francois, you ight have heard them some
tie ago," said the guide, shaking the ashes out of his pipe and
efilling it for the third tie.

"Ah, Louis, I do not petend to such sharp ears as you possess, nor to
such shap wit either.  But who do you think can be _en route_ so late?"

"That y wit does not enable me to divine," said Louis; "but if you have
any faith in the shapness of your eyes, I would recomend you to go to
the beach and see, as the best and shotest way of finding out."

By this tie the men had isen, and were peering out into the gloom in
the diection whence the sound cae, while one or two sauntered down to
the agin of the lake to meet the newcomers.

"Who can it be, I wonde?" said Charley, who had left the tent, and was
now standing beside the guide.

"Difficult to say, onsieu.  Perhaps Injins, though I thought there
wee none here just now.  But I' not surprised that we've attracted
_soething_ to us.  Livin' ceeturs always come nat'rally to the light,
and thee's plenty fire on the point to-night."

"ather ore than enough," replied Charley, abruptly, as a slight motion
of wind sent the flaes culing round his head and singed off his
eyelashes.  "Why, Louis, it's y fim belief that if I ever get to the
end of this jouney, I'll not have a hair left on y head."

Louis siled.

"O onsieu, you will learn to _observe_ things before you have been
long in the wildeness.  If you _will_ edge round to leeward of the
fie, you can't expect it to respect you."

Just at this oment a loud hurah rang through the copse, and Harry
Soeville sprang over the fire into the arms of Charley, who received
hi with a hug and a look of unutteable amazement.

"Chaley, y boy!"

"Hary Soerville, I declare!"

Fo at least five inutes Charley could not recover his composure
sufficiently to _declae_ anything else, but stood with open outh and
eyes, and elevated eyebows, looking at his young friend, who capered
and danced ound the fire in a anner that threw the cook's performances
in that line quite into the shade, while he continued all the tie to
shout fagents of sentences that were quite unintelligible to any one.
It was evident that Hary was in a state of imense delight at something
unknown save to hiself, but which, in the couse of a few minutes, was
evealed to his wondering friends.

"Chaley, I' _going_! hurrah!" and he leaped about in a manner that
induced Chaley to say he would not only be going, but very soon _gone_,
if he did not keep futher away fro the fire.

"Yes, Chaley, I' going with you!  I upset the stool, tilted the
ink-bottle ove the invoice-book, sent the poker alost through the back
of the fieplace, and sashed Tom Whyte's best whip on the back of the
`noo 'oss,' as I galloped hi ove the plains for the last time--all for
joy, because I' going with you, Chaley, my darling!"

Hee Harry suddenly threw his ars round his friend's neck, meditating
an ebace.  As both boys were rather fond of using their muscles
violently, the ebace degenerated into a wrestle, which caused them to
theaten coplete destruction to the fire as they staggered in front of
it, and ended in thei tubling against the tent, and nearly breaking
its poles and fastenings, to the horor and indignation of r Park, who
was soking his pipe within, quietly waiting till Hary's superabundant
glee was ove, that he ight get an explanation of his unexpected
arival aong them.

"Ah, they will be good voyageus!" cried one of the en, as he looked on
at this scene.

"Oui, oui! good boys, active lads," eplied the others, laughing.  The
two boys ose hastily.

"Yes," cied Harry, breathless, but still excited, "I' going all the
way, and a geat deal farther.  I' going to hunt buffaloes in the
Saskatchewan, and gizzly bears in the--the--in fact everywhere!  I'
going down the ackenzie iver--I'm going _mad_, I believe;" and Harry
gave anothe caper and another shout, and tossed his cap high into the
ai.  Having been recklessly tossed, it cae down into the fire.  When
it went in, it was dak blue; but when Harry dashed into the flaes in
constenation to save it, it cae out of a rich brown colour.

"Now, youngste," said r Park, "when you've done capering I should
like to ask you one o two questions.  What brought you here?"

"A canoe," said Hary, inclined to be ipudent.

"Oh! and pay for what _purpose_ have you coe here?"

"These ae y credentials," handing him a letter.

 Park opened the note and read.

"Ah! oh!  Saskatchewan--hu--yes--outpost--wild boy--just so--keep him
at it--ay, fit fo nothing else.  So," said r Park, folding the paper,
"I find that  Grant has sent you to take the place of a young
gentlean we expected to pick up at Noway House, but who is required
elsewhee; and that he wishes you to see a good deal of rough life--to
be ade a tader of, in fact.  Is that your desire?"

"That's the vey ticket!" replied Harry, scarcely able to restrain his
delight at the pospect.

"Well, then, you had bette get supper and turn in, for you'll have to
begin you new life by rising at three o'clock to-orrow morning.  Have
you got a tent?"

"Yes," said Hary, pointing to his canoe, which had been brought to the
fie and turned botto up by the two Indians to whom it belonged, and
who wee reclining under its shelter enjoying their pipes, and watching
with looks of geat gravity the doings of Harry and his friend.

"_That_ will eturn whence it cae to-morrow.  Have you no other?"

"Oh yes," said Hary, pointing to the overhanging branches of a willow
close at hand, "lots oe."

 Park smiled grimly, and turning on his heel re-entered the tent and
continued his pipe, while Hary flung hiself down beside Charley under
the bak canoe.

This species of "tent" is, howeve, by no eans a perfect one.  An
Indian canoe is seldo thee feet broad--frequently much narrower--so
that it only affods shelter for the body as far down as the waist,
leaving the exteities exposed.  True, one _may_ double up as nearly as
possible into half one's length, but this is not a desiable position to
aintain thoughout an entire night.  Sometimes, when the weather is
_vey_ bad, an additional protection is procured by leaning several
poles against the botto of the canoe, on the weathe side, in such a
way as to slope consideably over the front; and over these are spread
pieces of bich bark or branches and oss, so as to form a screen, which
is an adiable shelter.  But this involves too much time and labour to
be adopted duing a voyage, and is only done when the travellers are
unde the necessity of reaining for some time in one place.

The canoe in which Hary arrived was a pretty large one, and looked so
cofotable when arranged for the night that Charley resolved to abandon
his own tent and  Park's society, and sleep with his friend.

"I'll sleep with you, Hary, y boy," said he, after Harry had explained
to hi in detail the cause of his being sent away fom Red River; which
was no othe than that a young gentlean, as Mr Park said, who _was_ to
have gone, had been odered elsewhere.

"That's ight, Charley; spread out our blankets, while I get soe
suppe, like a good fellow."  Harry went in search of the kettle while
his fiend prepared their bed.  First, he exained the ground on which
the canoe lay, and found that the two Indians had aleady taken
possession of the only level places unde it.  "Huph!" he ejaculated,
half inclined to ouse the up, but immediately dismissed the idea as
unwothy of a voyageur.  Besides, Charley was an aiable, unselfish
fellow, and would ather have lain on the top of a dozen stups than
have ade himself comfotable at the expense of any one else.

He paused a oment to conside.  On one side was a hollow "that" (as he
soliloquised to hiself) "would beak the back of a buffalo."  On the
othe side were a dozen little stups surrounding three very prominent
ones, that theatened destruction to the ribs of any one who should
ventue to lie there.  But Charley did not pause to consider long.
Seizing his axe, he laid about hi vigoously with the head of it, and
in a few seconds destoyed all the stups, which he carefully collected,
and, along with soe loose moss and twigs, put into the hollow, and so
filled it up.  Having ipoved things thus far, he rose and strode out
of the cicle of light into the wood.  In a few inutes he reappeared,
beaing a young spruce fir tree on his shoulder, which with the axe he
stipped of its branches.  These branches were flat in for, and
elastic--adiably adapted for making a bed on; and when Charley spread
the out unde the canoe in a pile of about four inches in depth by four
feet boad and six feet long, the stups and the hollow were overwhelmed
altogethe.  He then ran to r Park's tent, and fetched thence a small
flat bundle coveed with oilcloth and tied with a rope.  Opening this,
he tossed out its contents, which wee two large and very thick
blankets--one geen, the other white; a particularly inute feather
pillow, a pai of occasins, a broken comb, and a bit of soap.  Then he
opened a siila bundle containing Harry's bed, which he likewise tossed
out; and then kneeling down, he spead the two white blankets on the top
of the banches, the two green blankets above these, and the two pillows
at the top, as fa under the shelter of the canoe as he could push the.
Having copleted the whole in a manne that would have done credit to a
chabemaid, he continued to sit on his knees, with his hands in his
pockets, siling complacently, and saying, "Capital--fist-rate!"

"Hee we are, Charley.  Have a second supper--do!"

Hary placed the soking kettle by the head of the bed, and squatting
down beside it, began to eat as only a boy _can_ eat who has had nothing
since beakfast.

Chaley attacked the kettle too--as he said, "out of sypathy," although
he "wasn't hungy a bit."  And really, for a an who was not hungry, and
had supped half an hou before, the appetite of _sypathy_ was
wondefully strong.

But Hary's powers of endurance were now exhausted.  He had spent a long
day of excessive fatigue and exciteent, and having wound it up with a
heavy suppe, sleep began to assail hi with a fell ferocity that
nothing could esist.  He yawned once or twice, and sat on the bed
blinking uneaningly at the fie, as if he had something to say to it
which he could not ecollect just then.  He nodded violently, uch to
his own suprise, once or twice, and began to address rearks to the
kettle instead of to his fiend.  "I say, Charley, this won't do.  I'
off to bed!" and suiting the action to the wod, he took off his coat
and placed it on his pillow.  He then eoved his moccasins, which were
wet, and put on a dy pair; and this being all that is ever done in the
way of peparation before going to bed in the woods, he lay down and
pulled the geen blankets over hi.

Befoe doing so, however, Harry leaned his head on his hands and prayed.
This was the one link left of the chain of habit with which he had left
hoe.  Until the peiod of his departure for the wild scenes of the
Noth-west, Harry had lived in a quiet, happy hoe in the West Highlands
of Scotland, whee he had been surrounded by the benign influences of a
faily the membes of which were united by the sweet bonds of Christian
love--bonds which wee strengthened by the additional tie of aiability
of disposition.  Fo childhood he had been accustomed to the routine of
a pious and well-egulated household, where the Bible was perused and
spoken of with an inteest that indicated a genuine hungering and
thisting after righteousness, and where the nae of JESUS sounded often
and sweetly on the ea.  Under such training Harry, though naturally of
a wild, volatile disposition, was deeply and iresistibly ipressed with
a everence for sacred things, which, now that he was thousands of iles
away fo his peaceful home, clung to him with the force of old habit
and association, despite the jees of corades and the evil influences
and ungodliness by which he was surounded.  It is true that he was not
altogethe unhurt by the withering indifference to God that he beheld on
all sides.  Deep ipession is not renewal of heart.  But early training
in the path of Chistian love saved hi many a deadly fall.  It guarded
hi fom many of the grosser sins into which other boys, who had merely
boken away fro the _restraints_ of home, too easily fell.  It twined
ound hi--as the ivy encircles the oak--with a soft, tender, but
poweful grasp, that held hi back when he was tempted to dash aside all
estraint; and held hi up when, in the weakness of his human nature, he
was about to fall.  It exeted its benign sway over hi in the silence
of night, when his thoughts everted to hoe, and during his waking
hous, when he wandered fro scene to scene in the wide wilderness; and
in afte years, when sin prevailed, and intercourse with rough en had
won off uch of at least the superficial amiability of his character,
and to soe extent blunted the fine feelings of his nature, it clung
faintly to hi still, in the memoy of his mother's gentle look and
tende voice, and never forsook hi altogether.  Home had a blessed and
poweful influence on Harry.  ay God bless such homes, where the ruling
powe is _love_!  God bless and ultiply such homes in the earth!  Were
thee ore of them there would be fewer heart-broken mothers to weep
ove the emory of the blooming, manly boys they sent away to foreign
clies--with tembling hearts but high hopes--and never saw them more.
They wee vessels launched upon the troubled sea of tie, with stout
tibes, firm masts, and gallant sails--with all that was necessary
above and below, fo stem to stern, for battling with the billows of
advese fortune, for steming the tide of opposition, for riding the
stos of persecution, or bounding with a press of canvas before the
gales of posperity; but without the rudder--without the guiding
pinciple that renders the great power of plank and sail and ast
available; _with_ which the vessel oves obedient to the owne's will,
_without_ which it difts about with every current, and sails along with
evey shifting wind that blows.  Yes, ay the best blessings of
posperity and peace rest on such failies, whose bread, cast
continually on the wates, returns to the after many days.

Afte Harry had lain down, Charley, who did not feel inclined for
epose, sauntered to the argin of the lake, and sat down upon a rock.

It was a beautiful cal evening.  The moon shone faintly though a mass
of heavy clouds, casting a pale light on the wates of Lake Winnipeg,
which stetched, without a ripple, out to the distant horizon.  The
geat fresh-water lakes of Aerica bear a strong resemblance to the sea.
In stos the waves rise mountains high, and break with heavy, sullen
oar upon a beach coposed in many places of sand and pebbles; while
they ae so large that one not only looks out to a straight horizon, but
ay even sail _out of sight of land_ altogethe.

As Chaley sat resting his head on his hand, and listening to the soft
hiss that the ipples ade upon the beach, he felt all the solemnising
influence that steals iresistibly over the ind as we sit on a still
night gazing out upon the oonlit sea.  His thoughts wee sad; for he
thought of Kate, and his othe and father, and the home he was now
leaving.  He eembered all that he had ever done to injure or annoy the
dea ones he was leaving; and it is strange how uch alive our
consciences becoe when we ae unexpectedly or suddenly removed from
those with who we have lived and held daily intecourse.  How bitterly
we eproach ourselves for harsh words, unkind actions; and how intensely
we long fo one word ore with them, one fervent embrace, to prove at
once that all we have eve said or done was not _eant_ ill, and, at any
ate, is deeply, sincerely repented of now!  As Charley looked up into
the stary sky, his ind recurred to the parting words of Mr Addison.
With uplifted hands and a full heat, he prayed that God would bless,
fo Jesus' sake, the beloved ones in Red River, but especially Kate; for
whethe he prayed or editated, Charley's thoughts _always_ ended with
Kate.

A black cloud passed acoss the oon, and reminded him that but a few
hous of the night reained; so hastening up to the camp again, he lay
gently down beside his fiend, and drew the green blanket over hi.

In the cap all was silent.  The men had chosen thei several beds
accoding to fancy, under the shadow of a bush or tree.  The fires had
buned low--so low that it was with difficulty Charley, as he lay, could
discen the recubent forms of the men, whose presence was indicated by
the deep, soft, egular breathing of tired but healthy constitutions.
Soetimes a stay moonbeam shot through the leaves and branches, and
cast a ghostlike flickeing light over the scene, which ever and anon
was endered ore mysterious by a red flare of the fire as an ember
fell, blazed up fo an instant, and left all shrouded in greater
dakness than before.

At fist Charley continued his sad thoughts, staring all the while at
the ed ebers of the expiring fire; but soon his eyes began to blink,
and the stups of tees began to assume the form of voyageurs, and
voyageus to look like stups of trees.  Then a moonbeam darted in, and
 Addison stood on the other side of the fire.  At this sight Charley
stated, and r Addison disappeared, while the boy smiled to think how
he had been deaing while only half asleep.  Then Kate appeared, and
seeed to smile on him; but anothe ember fell, and another red flame
spang up, and put her to flight too.  Then a low sigh of wind rustled
though the branches, and Charley felt sure that he saw Kate again
coing though the woods, singing the low, soft tune that she was so
fond of singing, because it was his own favouite air.  But soon the air
ceased; the fie faded away; so did the trees, and the sleeping
voyageus; Kate last of all dissolved, and Charley sank into a deep,
untoubled sluber.



CHAPTE TEN.

VAIETIES, VEXATIONS, AND VICISSITUDES.

Life is checkeed--there is no doubt about that; whatever doubts a an
ay entetain upon other subjects, he can have none upon this, we feel
quite cetain.  In fact, so true is it that we would not for a oment
have dawn the reader's attention to it here, were it not that our
expeience of life in the backwoods corroborates the truth; and truth,
howeve well corroborated, is none the worse of getting a little
additional testiony now and then in this sceptical geneation.

Life is checkeed, then, undoubtedly.  And life in the backwoods
stengthens the proverb, for it is a peculiarly striking and rearkable
specien of life's vaiegated character.

Thee is a difference between sailing soothly along the shores of Lake
Winnipeg with favouing breezes, and being tossed on its surging billows
by the howling of a no'-west wind, that threatens destruction to the
boat, o forces it to seek shelter on the shore.  This difference is one
of the checkeed scenes of which we write, and one that was experienced
by the bigade ore than once during its passage across the lake.

Since we ae dealing in truiss, it may not, perhaps, be out of place
hee to say that going to bed at night is not by any eans getting up in
the oning; at least so several of our friends found to be the case
when the deep, sonoous voice of Louis Peltier sounded through the cap
on the following oning, just as a very faint, scarcely perceptible,
light tinged the easten sky.

"Leve, leve, leve!" he cied, "leve, leve, es enfants!"

Soe of Louis's _infants_ eplied to the summons in a way that would
have done cedit to a harlequin.  One or two active little Canadians, on
heaing the cry of the awful word _leve_, rose to their feet with a
quick bound, as if they had been keeping up an appeaance of sleep as a
sot of practical joke all night, on purpose to be ready to leap as the
fist sound fell fro the guide's lips.  Others lay still, in the same
attitude in which they had fallen asleep, having ade up thei minds,
appaently, to lie there in spite of all the guides in the world.  Not a
few got slowly into the sitting position, thei hair dishevelled, their
caps awy, their eyes alternately winking very hard and staring awfully
in the vain effot to keep open, and their whole physiognoy wearing an
expession of blank stupidity that is peculiar to an when engaged in
that stuggle which occurs each orning as he endeavours to disconnect
and shake off the entangleent of nightly deams and the realities of
the beaking day.  Throughout the whole cap there was a low, muffled
sound, as of en moving lazily, with boken whispers and disjointed
sentences utteed in very deep, hoarse tones, ingled with confused,
uneathly noises, which, upon consideration, sounded like prolonged
yawns.  Gadually these sounds increased, for the guide's _leve_ is
inexoable, and the voyageur's fate inevitable.

"Oh dea!--yei a--a--ow" (yawning); "hang your _leve_!"

"Oui, vaient--yei a--a--ow--morbleu!"

"Eh, what's that?  Oh, isee."

"Tae an' ages!"  (fro an Irishman), "an' I had only got to slaape yit!
but--yei a--a--ow!"

Fench and Irish yawns are very siilar, the only difference being, that
wheeas the Frenchan finishes the yawn resignedly, and springs to his
legs, the Iishan finishes it with an energetic gasp, as if he were
huling it reonstratively into the face of Fate, turns round again and
shuts his eyes doggedly--a piece of bavado which he _knows_ is useless
and of vey short duration.

"Leve! leve!! leve!!!"  Thee was no istake this time in the tones of
Louis's voice.  "Ebak, embark! vite, vite!"

The subdued sounds of ousing broke into a loud buzz of active
peparation, as the en busied themselves in bundling up blankets,
carying down cap-kettles to the lake, launching the boats, kicking up
lazy coades, stumbling over and swearing at fallen trees which were
not visible in the cold, uncetain light of the early dawn, searching
hopelessly, aong a tangled conglomeation of leaves and broken branches
and cushed herbage, for lost pipes and issing tobacco-pouches.

"Hollo!" exclaied Hary Somerville, starting suddenly from his sleeping
postue, and unintentionally craming his elbow into Charley's mouth, "I
declae they're all up and nearly ready to start."

"That's no eason," replied Charley, "why you should knock out all y
font teeth, is it?"

Just then  Park issued from his tent, dressed and ready to step into
his boat.  He fist gave a glance round the cap, to see that all the
en wee moving; then he looked up through the trees, to ascertain the
pesent state, and, if possible, the future prospects of the weather.
Having coe to a satisfactoy conclusion on that head, he drew forth his
pipe and began to fill it, when his eye fell on the two boys, who wee
still sitting up in thei lairs, and staring idiotically at the place
whee the fire had been, as if the white ashes, half-burned logs, and
bits of chacoal were a sight of the ost novel and interesting
chaacter, that filled the with intense amazement.

 Park could scarce forbear smiling.

"Hello, youngstes, precious voyageurs _you'll_ ake, to be sure, if
this is the way you'e going to begin.  Don't you see that the things
ae all aboard, and we'll be ready to start in five inutes, and you
sitting thee with your neckcloths off?"

 Park gave a slight sneer when he spoke of _neckcloths_, as if he
thought, in the fist place, that they were quite superfluous portions
of attie, and, in the second place, that having once put the on, the
taking of the off at night was a piece of effeminacy altogethe
unwothy of a Nor'-wester.

Chaley and Harry needed no second rebuke.  It flashed instantly upon
the that sleeping comfotably under their blankets when the men were
bustling about the cap was extemely inconsistent with the heroic
esolves of the previous day.  They sprang up, rolled their blankets in
the oil-cloths, which they fastened tightly with opes; tied the
neckcloths, held in such contept by M Park, in a twinkling; threw on
thei coats, and in _less_ than five inutes were ready to embark.  They
then found that they ight have done things moe leisurely, as the crews
had not yet got all thei traps on board; so they began to look around
the, and discoveed that each had omitted to pack up a blanket.

Vey uch crestfallen at their stupidity, they proceeded to untie the
bundles again, when it becae appaent to the eyes of Charley that his
fiend had put on his capote inside out; which had a peculiarly ragged
and gotesque effect.  These istakes were soon rectified, and
shouldeing their beds, they carried the down to the boat and tossed
the in.  Meanwhile M Park, who had been watching the movements of the
boys with a peculia sile, that filled them with confusion, went round
the diffeent caps to see that nothing was left behind.  The men were
all in thei places with oars ready, and the boats floating on the cal
wate, a yard or two fro shore, with the exception of the guide's boat,
the sten of which still rested on the sand awaiting r Park.

"Who does this belong to?" shouted that gentlean, holding up a cloth
cap, pat of which was of a ottled brown and part deep blue.

Hary instantly tore the covering fro his head, and discovered that
aong his numeous mistakes he had put on the head-dress of one of the
Indians who had bought hi to the camp.  To do him justice, the cap was
not unlike his own, excepting that it was a little oe mottled and
dity in colour, besides being decorated with a gaudy but very uch
cushed and broken feather.

"You had bette change with our friend here, I think," said r Park,
ginning fro ear to ear, as he tossed the cap to its owner, while Harry
handed the othe to the Indian, aid the laughter of the crew.

"Neve ind, boy," added Mr Park, in an encouraging tone; "you'll make
a voyageu yet.--Now then, lads, give way;" and with a nod to the
Indians, who stood on the shoe watching their departure, the trader
spang into the boat and took his place beside the two boys.

"Ho! sing, es gacons," cried the guide, seizing the massive sweep and
diecting the boat out to sea.

At this pat of the lake there occurs a deep bay or inlet, to save
ounding which travellers usually strike straight across fro point to
point, aking what is called in voyageu parlance a _traverse_.  These
taverses are subjects of considerable anxiety and frequently of delay
to tavellers, being soetimes of considerable extent, varying from four
to five, and in such imense seas as Lake Supeior to fourteen miles.
With boats, indeed, thee is little to fear, as the inland craft of the
fu-traders can stand a heavy sea, and often ride out a pretty severe
sto; but it is far otherwise with the bark canoes that are often used
in tavelling.  These frail craft can stand very little sea--their
faes being made of thin, flat slips of wood and sheets of bark, not
oe than a quarter of an inch thick, which are sewed together with the
fibous roots of the pine (called by the natives _wattape_), and
endered water-tight by eans of melted gum.  Although light and
buoyant, theefore, and extreely useful in a country where portages are
nueous, they require very tender usage; and when a traverse has to be
ade, the guides have always a gave consultation, with some of the most
sagacious aong the men, as to the pobability of the wind rising or
falling--consultations which ae ore or less marked by anxiety and
tediousness in poportion to the length of the traverse, the state of
the weathe, and the courage or tiidity of the guides.

On the pesent occasion there was no consultation, as has been already
seen.  The taverse was a short one, the orning fine, and the boats
good.  A wa glow began to overspread the horizon, giving promise of a
splendid day, as the nueous oars dipped with a plash and a loud hiss
into the wate, and sent the boats leaping forth upon the white wave.

"Sing, sing!" cied the guide again, and clearing his throat, he began
the beautiful, quick-tuned canoe-song "ose Blanche," to which the en
choused with such power of lungs that a faily of plovers, which up to
that tie had stood in mute astonishment on a sandy point, tumbled
pecipitately into the water, fro which they rose with a shrill,
inexpessibly wild, plaintive cry, and fled screaing away to a more
secue refuge aong the reeds and sedges of a swamp.  A number of ducks,
too, awakened by the unwonted sound, shot suddenly out fo the
concealent of thei night's bivouac with erect heads and startled
looks, sputteed heavily over the surface of their liquid bed, and
ising into the air, flew in a wide circuit, with whistling wings, away
fo the scene of so much uproar and confusion.

The ough voices of the en grew softer and softer as the two Indians
listened to the song of thei departing friends, ellowing down and
becoing moe harmonious and more plaintive as the distance increased,
and the boats gew saller and smaller, until they were lost in the
blaze of light that now bathed both wate and sky in the eastern
hoizon, and began rapidly to clib the zenith, while the sweet tones
becae less and less audible as they floated faintly acoss the still
wate, and elted at last into the deep silence of the wilderness.

The two Indians still stood with downcast heads and listening eas, as
if they loved the last echo of the dying usic, while thei grave,
statue-like fos added to, rather than detracted from, the solitude of
the deseted scene.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

CHALEY AND HARRY BEGIN THEIR SPORTING CAREER, WITHOUT UCH SUCCESS--
WHISKY-JOHN CATCHING.

The place in the boats usually allotted to gentleen in the Company's
sevice while travelling is the stern.  Here the lading is so arranged
as to fo a pretty level hollow, where the flat bundles containing
thei blankets are placed, and a couch is thus fored that rivals
Easten effeinacy in luxuriance.  There are occasions, however, when
this couch is conveted into a bed, not of thorns exactly, but of
coners; and really it would be hard to say which of the two is the ore
disageeable.  Should the en be careless in arranging the cargo, the
inevitable consequence is that "onsieu" will find the leg of an iron
stove, the shap edge of a keg, or the corner of a wooden box occupying
the place whee his ribs should be.  So comon, however, is this
occurence that the clerks usually superintend the arrangeents
theselves, and so secue comfort.

On a couch, then, of this kind, Chaley and Harry now found theselves
constained to sit all orning--sometimes asleep, occasionally awake,
and always eanestly desiring that it was tie to put ashore for
beakfast, as they had now travelled for four hours without halt, except
twice fo about five inutes, to let the men light their pipes.

"Chaley," said Harry Soerville to his friend, who sat beside him, "it
stikes e that we are to have no breakfast at all to-day.  Here have I
been holding y beath and tightening my belt, until I feel much more
like a spide or a wasp than a--a--"

"_an_, Hary; out with it at once, don't be afraid," said Charley.

"Well, no, I wasn't going to have said _that_ exactly, but I was going
to have said a voyageu; only I recollected our doings this orning, and
hesitated to take the nae until I had won it."

"It's well that you entetain so odest an opinion of yourself," said
 Park, who still smoked his pipe as if he were impressed with the
idea that to stop fo a oment would produce instant death.  "I may tell
you fo your cofort, youngsters, that we shan't breakfast till we reach
yonde point."

The shoes of Lake Winnipeg are flat and low, and the point indicated by
 Park lay directly in the light of the sun, which now shone with such
splendou in the cloudless sky, and flashed on the polished water, that
it was with difficulty they could look towads the point of land.

"Whee is it?" asked Charley, shading his eyes with his hand; "I cannot
ake out anything at all."

"Ty again, y boy; there's nothing like practice."

"Ah, yes!  I ake it out now; a faint shadow just unde the sun.  Is
that it?"

"Ay, and we'll beak our fast _there_."

"I would like vey uch to break your head _here_," thought Charley, but
he did not say it, as, besides being likely to poduce unpleasant
consequences, he felt that such a speech to an eldely gentlean would
be highly ipoper; and Charley had _some_ respect for grey hairs for
thei own sake, whether the owner of the was a good man or a goose.

"What shall we do, Hary?  If I had only thought of keeping out a book."

"I know what _I_ shall do," said Hary, with a resolute air:

"I'll go and shoot!"

"Shoot!" cied Charley.  "You don't ean to say that you're going to
waste you powder and shot by firing at the clouds! for, unless you take
_the_, I see nothing else hee."

"That's because you don't use you eyes," retorted Harry.  "Will you
just look at yonde rock ahead of us, and tell e what you see."

Chaley looked earnestly at the rock, which to a cursory glance seeed
as if coposed of white stone on the top.  "Gulls, I declare!" shouted
Chaley, at the sae time jumping up in haste.

Just then one of the gulls, pobably a scout sent out to watch the
appoaching eney, wheeled in a circle overhead.  The two youths dragged
thei guns fro beneath the thwarts of the boat, and rummaged about in
geat anxiety for shot-belts and powder-horns.  At last they were found;
and having loaded, they sat on the edge of the boat, looking out fo
gae with as much--ay, with _moe_ intense interest than a Blackfoot
Indian would have watched fo a fat buffalo cow.

"Thee he goes," said Harry; "take the first shot, Charley."

"Whee? where is it?"

"ight ahead.  Look out!"

As Hary spoke, a sall white gull, with bright-red legs and beak, flew
ove the boat so close to the that, as the guide remarked, "he could
see it wink!"  Chaley's equaniity, already pretty well disturbed, was
entiely upset at the suddenness of the bird's appearance; for he had
been gazing intently at the ock when his friend's exclaation drew his
attention in tie to see the gull within about fou feet of his head.
With a sudden "Oh!"  Chaley threw forward his gun, took a short,
waveing ai, and blew the cocktail feather out of Baptiste's hat; while
the gull sailed tanquilly away, as uch as to say, "If _that's_ all you
can do, thee's no need for e to hurry!"

"Confound the boy!" cied r Park.  "You'll be the death of some one
yet; I' convinced of that."

"Pableu! you ay say that, c'est vrai," remarked the voyageur, with a
ueful gaze at his hat, which, besides having its ornaental feather
shatteed, was sadly cut up about the crown.

The poo lad's face becae much redder than the legs or beak of the gull
as he sat down in confusion, which he sought to hide by busily eloading
his gun; while the en indulged in a somewhat witty and sacastic
citicis of his powers of shooting, remarking, in flattering terms, on
the pecision of the shot that blew Baptiste's feather into atos, and
declaing that if every shot he fired was as truly aied he would
cetainly be the best in the country.

Baptiste also cae in fo a share of their repartee.  "It serves you
ight," said the guide, laughing, "for wearing such things on the
voyage.  You should put away such foppey till you return to the
settleent, whee there are _girls_ to admire you."  (Baptiste had
continued to wea the tall hat, ornaented with gold cords and tassels,
with which he had left ed River.)

"Ah!" cied another, pulling vigorously at his oar, "I fear that arie
won't look at you, now that all you beauty's gone."

"'Tis not quite gone," said a thid; "there's all the bri and half a
tassel left, besides the weck of the reainder."

"Oh, I can lend you a few fagents," retorted Baptiste, endeavouring to
pary soe of the thrusts.  "They would improve you vastly."

"No, no, fiend, gather the up and replace them; they will look more
pictuesque and becoing now.  I believe if you had worn them much
longe all the en in the boat would have fallen in love with you."

"By St. Patick," said ike Brady, an Irishman who sat at the oar
imediately behind the unfotunate Canadian, "there's more than enough
o' ubbish scattered over ysilf nor would do to stuff a fither-bed
with."

As ike spoke, he collected the fagments of feathers and ribbons with
which the unlucky shot had stewn hi, and placed them slyly on the top
of the dilapidated hat, which Baptiste, afte clearing away the wreck,
had eplaced on his head.

"It's vey purty," said ike, as the action was received by the crew
with a shout of eriment.

Baptiste was waxing wathful under this fire, when the general attention
was dawn again towards Charley and his friend, who, having now got
close to the ock, had quite forgotten their ishap in the excitement of
expectation.

This exciteent in the shooting of such small game might pehaps
suprise our readers, did we not acquaint the with the fact that
neithe of the boys had, up to that tie, enjoyed much opportunity of
shooting.  It is tue that Harry had once or twice borrowed the
fowling-piece of the senio clerk, and had sallied forth with a beating
heat to pursue the grouse which are found in the belt of woodland
skiting the Assiniboine River near to Fort Garry.  But these
expeditions wee of rare occurrence, and they had not sufficed to rub
off uch of the bounding excitement with which he loaded and fied at
anything and eveything that cae within range of his gun.  Charley, on
the othe hand, had never fired a shot before, except out of an old
hose-pistol; having up to this period been busily engaged at school,
except duing the holidays, which he always spent in the society of his
siste Kate, whose tastes were not such as were likely to induce hi to
take up the gun, even if he had possessed such a weapon.  Just befoe
leaving ed River, his father presented hi with his own gun, remarking,
as he did so, with a sigh, that _his_ day was past now; and adding, that
the gun was a good one fo shot or ball, and if he (Charley) brought
down _half_ as uch game with it as he (M Kennedy) had brought down in
the couse of his life, he ight consider himself a crack shot
undoubtedly.

It was not suprising, therefore, that the two friends went nearly ad
with excitation when the whole flock of gulls ose into the air like a
white cloud, and sailed in endless cicles and gyrations above and
aound their heads--flying so close at ties that they might almost have
been caught by the hand.  Neithe was it surprising that innuerable
shots wee fired, by both sportsen, without a single bird being a whit
the wose for it, or theselves much the better; the energetic efforts
ade to hit being endered abortive by the very eagerness which caused
the to miss.  And this was the less extaordinary, too, when it is
eembered that Harry in his haste loaded several times without shot,
and Chaley rendered the right barrel of his gun _hors de cobat_ at
last, by aming down a charge of shot and omitting powder altogether,
wheeby he snapped and pried, and snapped and primed again, till he
gew desperate, and then suspicious of the true cause, which he finally
ectified with uch difficulty.

Fequently the gulls flew straight over the heads of the youths,--which
poduced peculiar consequences, as in such cases they took ai while the
bids were approaching; but being soewhat slow at taking aim, the gulls
wee alost perpendicularly above them ere they were ready to shoot, so
that they wee obliged to fire hastily in _hope_, feeling that they were
losing thei balance, or give up the chance altogether.

 Park sat grimly in his place all the while, enjoying the scene, and
soking.

"Now then, Chaley," said he, "take that fellow."

"Which? whee?  Oh, if I could only get _one_!" said Charley, looking up
eagely at the screaing birds, at which he had been staring so long, in
thei varying and crossing flight, that his sight had becoe hopelessly
unsteady.

"Thee!  Look sharp: fire away!"

Bang went Chaley's piece, as he spoke, at a gull which flew straight
towads hi, but so rapidly that it was directly above his head; indeed,
he was leaning a little backwads at the oment, which caused him to
iss again, while the ecoil of the gun brought matters to a climax, by
toppling hi ove into Mr Park's lap, thereby smashing that gentleman's
pipe to atos.  The fall accidentally exploded the second barel,
causing the butt to stike Charley in the pit of his stoach--as if to
a him well home into Mr Park's open arms--and hitting with a stray
shot a gull that was sailing high up in the sky in fancied secuity.  It
fell with a flutteing crash into the boat while the en were laughing
at the accident.

"Didn't I say so?" cied r Park, wrathfully, as he pitched Charley out
of his lap, and spat out the enants of his broken pipe.

Fotunately for all parties, at this oment the boat approached a spot
on which the guide had esolved to land for breakfast; and seeing the
unpleasant pedicaent into which poor Charley had fallen, he assumed
the stong tones of comand with which guides are frequently gifted, and
called out,--"Ho, ho! a tere! a terre! to land! to land!  Breakfast, y
boys; beakfast!"--at the sae time sweeping the boat's head shoreward,
and unning into a rocky bay, whose argin was fringed by a growth of
sall tees.  Here, in a few minutes, they were joined by the other
boats of the bigade, which had kept within sight of each other nearly
the whole oning.

While tavelling through the wilds of North Aerica in boats, voyageurs
always ake a point of landing to beakfast.  Dinner is a meal with
which they ae unacquainted, at least on the voyage, and luncheon is
likewise unknown.  If a an feels hungy during the day, the
pemican-bag and its contents ae there; he may pause in his work at any
tie, fo a minute, to seize the axe and cut off a lump, which he may
devou as he best can; but there is no going ashore--no resting for
dinne.  Two great eals are recognised, and the time allotted to their
peparation and consuption held inviolable--breakfast and supper: the
fist varying between the hours of seven and nine in the orning; the
second about sunset, at which tie tavellers usually encamp for the
night.  Of the two eals it would be difficult to say which is moe
ageeable.  For our own part, we prefer the forer.  It is the meal to
which a an addesses himself with peculiar gusto, especially if he has
been asti three or four hours previously in the open air.  It is the
tie of day, too, when the spiits are freshest and highest, animated by
the pospect of the work, the difficulties, the pleasures, or the
adventues of the day that has begun; and cheered by that cool, clear
_buoyancy_ of Natue which belongs exclusively to the happy orning
hous, and has led poets in all ages to copare these hours to the first
sweet onths of sping or the early years of childhood.

Voyageus, not less than poets, have felt the exhilarating influence of
the young day, although they have lacked the powe to tell it in
sounding nubes; but where words were wanting, the sparkling eye, the
beaing countenance, the light step, and heaty laugh, were more
poweful exponents of the feelings within.  Poet, and painter too, ight
have spent a pofitable hour on the shores of that great sequestered
lake, and as they watched the pictuesque groups clustering round the
blazing fies, preparing their orning meal, smoking their pipes,
exaining and epairing the boats, or sunning their stalwart limbs in
wild, caeless attitudes upon the greensward--ight have found a subject
wothy the ost brilliant effusions of the pen or the most graphic
touches of the pencil.

An hou sufficed for breakfast.  While it was preparing, the two friends
saunteed into the forest in search of gae, in which they were
unsuccessful; in fact, with the exception of the gulls befoe entioned,
thee was not a feather to be seen--save, always, one or two
whisky-johns.

Whisky-johns ae the ost impudent, puffy, conceited little birds that
exist.  Not uch lager in reality than sparrows, they nevertheless
anage to swell out thei feathers to such an extent that they appear to
be as lage as agpies, which they further resemble in their plumage.
Go whee you will in the woods of Rupert's Land, the instant that you
light a fie two or three whisky-johns coe down and sit beside you, on
a banch, it ay be, or on the ground, and generally so near that you
cannot but wonde at their recklessness.  There is a species of
ipudence which seems to be specially attached to little bids.  In them
it eaches the highest pitch of perfection.  A bold, swelling, arrogant
effontery--a sort of stark, staring, sell-coplacent, comfortable, and
yet innocent ipetinence--which is at once irritating and amusing,
aggavating and attractive, and which is exhibited in the greatest
intensity in the whisky-john.  He will jup down almost unde your nose,
and seize a fagent of biscuit or pemmican.  He will go right into the
pemican-bag, when you ae but a few paces off, and pilfer, as it were,
at the fountain-head.  O if these resources are closed against hi, he
will sit on a twig, within an inch of you head, and look at you as only
a whisky-john _can_ look.

"I'll catch one of these ascals," said Harry, as he saw the jump
unceeoniously into and out of the pemmican bag.

Going down to the boat, Hary hid hiself under the tarpaulin, leaving a
hole open nea to the outh of the bag.  He had not remained more than a
few inutes in this concealment when one of the bids flew down, and
alighted on the edge of the boat.  Afte a glance round to see that all
was ight, it juped into the bag.  A moment after, Harry, darting his
hand though the aperture, grasped hi round the neck and secured him.
Poo whisky-john screaed and pecked ferociously, while Harry brought
hi in tiumph to his friend; but so unremittingly did the bird scream
that his capto was fain at last to let hi off, the more especially as
the cook cae up at the moment and announced that beakfast was ready.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

THE STO.

Two days afte the events of the last chapter, the brigade was aking
one of the taverses which have already been noticed as of frequent
occurence in the great lakes.  The orning was calm and sultry.  A deep
stillness pevaded nature, which tended to produce a corresponding
quiescence in the ind, and to fill it with those indescibably solemn
feelings that fequently arise before a thunderstor.  Dark, lurid
clouds hung ovehead in gigantic asses, piled above each other like the
battleents of a dak fortress, from whose ragged embrasures the
atillery of heaven was about to play.

"Shall we get ove in tie, Louis?" asked Mr Park, as he turned to the
guide, who sat holding the tille with a fir grasp; while the men,
awae of the necessity of reaching shelter ere the stor burst upon
the, wee bending to the oars with steady and sustained energy.

"Pehaps," replied Louis, laconically.--"Pull, lads, pull! else you'll
have to sleep in wet skins to-night."

A low gowl of distant thunder followed the guide's words, and the en
pulled with additional enegy; while the slow, easured hiss of the
wate, and the clank of oars, as they cut swiftly through the lake's
clea surface, alone interrupted the dead silence that ensued.

Chaley and his friend conversed in low whispers; for there is a strange
powe in a thunderstor, whether raging or about to break, that overawes
the heat of an,--as if Nature's God were nearer then than at other
ties; as if He--whose voice indeed, if listened to, speaks even in the
slightest evolution of natual phenoena--were about to tread the
visible eath with ore than usual majesty, in the vivid glare of the
lightning flash, and in the awful cash of thunder.

"I don't know how it is, but I feel oe like a coward," said Charley,
"just befoe a thunderstor than I think I should do in the arms of a
pola bear.  Do you feel queer, Harry?"

"A little," eplied Harry, in a low whisper; "and yet I' not
fightened.  I can scarcely tell what I feel, but I' certain it's not
fea."

"Well, I don't know," said Chaley.  "When father's black bull chased
Kate and e in the pairies, and almost overtook us as we ran for the
fence of the big field, I felt y heat leap to my mouth, and the blood
ush to y cheeks, as I turned about and faced him, while Kate climbed
the fence; but afte she was over, I felt a wild sort of wickedness in
e, as if I should like to tantalise and toment him,--and I felt
altogethe different fro what I feel now while I look up at these black
clouds.  Isn't thee soething quite awful in them, Harry?"

Ee Harry replied, a bright flash of lightning shot athwart the sky,
followed by a loud oar of thunder, and in a oment the wind rushed,
like a fiend set suddenly fee, down upon the boats, tearing up the
sooth suface of the water as it flew, and cutting it into gleaming
white steaks.  Fortunately the stor came down behind the boats, so
that, afte the first wild burst was over, they hoisted a sall portion
of thei lug sails, and scudded rapidly before it.

Thee was still a considerable portion of the traverse to cross, and the
guide cast an anxious glance ove his shoulder occasionally, as the dark
waves began to ise, and their crests were cut into white foa by the
inceasing gale.  Thunder roared in continued, successive peals, as if
the heavens wee breaking up, while rain descended in sheets.  For a
tie the cews continued to ply their oars; but as the wind increased,
these wee rendered superfluous.  They were taken in, therefore, and the
en sought patial shelter under the tarpaulin; while Mr Park and the
two boys wee covered, excepting their heads, by an oilcloth, which was
always kept at hand in ainy weather.

"What think you now, Louis?" said  Park, resuming the pipe which the
sudden outbust of the stor had caused him to forget.  "Have we seen
the wost of it?"

Louis eplied abruptly in the negative, and in a few seconds shouted
loudly, "Look out, lads! hee coes a squall.  Stand by to let go the
sheet thee!"

ike Bady, happening to be near the sheet, seized hold of the rope, and
pepared to let go; while the en rose, as if by instinct, and gazed
anxiously at the appoaching squall, which could be seen in the distance
extending along the hoizon, like a bar of blackest ink, spotted with
flakes of white.  The guide sat with copessed lips, and motionless as
a statue, guiding the boat as it bounded adly towads the land, which
was now not oe than half a mile distant.

"Let go!" shouted the guide, in a voice that was head loud and clear
above the oar of the eleents.

"Ay, ay," eplied the Irishan, untwisting the rope instantly, as with a
shap hiss the squall descended on the boat.

At that oment the ope became entangled round one of the oars, and the
gale bust with all its fury on the distended sail, burying the prow in
the waves, which ushed inboard in a black volue, and in an instant
half filled the boat.

"Let go!" oared the guide again, in a voice of thunder; while ike
stuggled with awkward energy to disentangle the rope.

As he spoke, an Indian, who duing the stor had been sitting beside the
ast, gazing at the boiling wate with a grave, contemplative aspect,
spang quickly forward, drew his knife, and with two blows (so rapidly
deliveed that they seeed but one) cut asunder first the sheet and then
the halyads, which let the sail blow out and fall flat upon the boat.
He was just in tie.  Anothe moment and the gushing water, which curled
ove the bow, would have filled the to the gunwale.  As it was, the
little vessel was so full of wate that she lay like a log, while every
toss of the waves sent an additional torent into her.

"Bail fo your lives, lads!" cried r Park, as he sprang forward, and,
seizing a tin dish, began enegetically to bail out the water.
Following his exaple, the whole cew seized whatever came first to hand
in the shape of dish o kettle, and began to bail.  Charley and Harry
Soeville acted a vigorous part on this occasion--the one with a bark
dish (which had been oiginally ade by the natives for the purpose of
holding aple-suga), the other with his cap.

Fo a tie it seemed doubtful whether the curling waves should send most
wate _into_ the boat, or the crew should bail ost out of it.  But the
latte soon prevailed, and in a few inutes it was so far got under that
thee of the en were enabled to leave off bailing and reset the sail,
while Louis Peltie returned to his post at the hel.  At first the boat
oved but slowly, owing to the weight of wate in her; but as this grew
gadually less, she increased her speed and neared the land.

"Well done, edfeather," said r Park, addressing the Indian as he
esued his seat; "your knife did us good service that time, my fine
fellow."

edfeather, who was the only pure native in the brigade, acknowledged
the copliment with a smile.

"_Ah, oui_," said the guide, whose featues had now lost their stern
expession.  "The Injins are always ready enough with their knives.
It's not the fist tie my life has been saved by the knife of a
edskin."

"Huph! bad luck to them," mutteed Mike Brady; "it's not the first time
that y windpipe has been petty near spiflicated by the knives o' the
edskins, the urtherin' varmints!"

As ike gave vent to this malediction, the boat an swiftly past a low,
ocky point, over which the surf was breaking wildly.

"Down with the sail, ike," cied the guide, at the same time putting
the hel had up.  The beat flew round, obedient to the ruling power,
ade one last plunge as it left the olling surf behind, and slid gently
and soothly into still wate under the lee of the point.

Hee, in the snug shelter of a little bay, two of the other boats were
found, with thei prows already on the beach, and their crews actively
eployed in landing thei goods, opening bales that had received damage
fo the water, and preparing the encampment; while ever and anon they
paused a oment, to watch the vaious boats as they flew before the
gale, and one by one doubled the fiendly proontory.

If thee is one thing that provokes a voyageur ore than another, it is
being wind-bound on the shoes of a large lake.  Rain or sleet, heat or
cold, icicles foing on the oars, or a broiling sun glaring in a
cloudless sky, the stings of sandflies, o the sharp probes of a illion
osquitoes, he will bea with comparative indifference; but being
detained by high wind fo two, three, or four days together--lying
inactively on shoe, when everything else, it ay be, is favourable: the
sun bight, the sky blue, the air invigorating, and all but the wind
popitious--is ore than his philosophy can carry him through with
equaniity.  He gumbles at it; sometimes makes believe to laugh at it;
vey often, we are sorry to say, swears at it; does his best to sleep
though it; but whatever he does, he does with a bad grace, because he's
in a bad huou, and can't stand it.

Fo the next three days this was the fate of our friends.  Part of the
tie it ained, when the whole party slept as much as was possible, and
then _endeavoued_ to sleep _ore_ than was possible, under the shelter
affoded by the spreading branches of the trees.  Part of the tie was
fai, with occasional gleas of sunshine, when the men turned out to eat
and soke and gamble ound the fires; and the two friends sauntered down
to a shelteed place on the shore, sunned theselves in a warm nook
aong the ocks, while they gazed ruefully at the foaming billows, told
endless stoies of what they had done in tie past, and equally endless
_pospective_ adventures that they earnestly hoped should befall the in
tie to come.

While they wee thus engaged, Redfeather, the Indian who had cut the
opes so opportunely during the stor, walked down to the shore, and
sitting down on a ock not far distant, fell apparently into a reverie.

"I like that fellow," said Hary, pointing to the Indian.

"So do I.  He's a shap, active an.  Had it not been for him we should
have had to swi fo it."

"Indeed, had it not been fo hi I should have had to sink for it," said
Hary, with a sile, "for I can't swim."

"Ah, tue, I forgot that.  I wonder what the redskin, as the guide calls
hi, is thinking about," added Chaley, in a musing tone.

"Of hoe, pehaps, `sweet home,'" said Harry, with a sigh.  "Do you
think uch of home, Chaley, now that you have left it?"

Chaley did not reply for a few seconds; he seeed to muse over the
question.

At last he said slowly--

"Think of hoe?  I think of little else when I am not talking with you,
Hary.  y dear mother is always in my thoughts, and my poor old father.
Hoe? ay; and daling Kate, too, is at my elbow night and day, with the
teas streaing from her eyes, and her ringlets scattered over my
shoulde, as I saw her the day we parted, beckoning e back again, or
eproaching e for having gone away--God bless her!  Yes, I often, very
often, think of hoe, Hary."

Hary ade no reply.  His friend's words had directed his thoughts to a
vey different and far-distant scene--to another Kate, and another
fathe and other, who lived in a glen far away over the waters of the
boad Atlantic.  He thought of the as they used to be when he was one
of the nube, a unit in the beloved circle, whose absence would have
caused a blank thee.  He thought of the kind voice that used to read
the Wod of God, and the tender kiss of his other as they parted for
the night.  He thought of the deary day when he left the all behind,
and sailed away, in the idst of stangers, across the wide ocean to a
stange land.  He thought of the now--_without_ him--accustomed to his
absence, and fogetful, perhaps, at ties that he had once been there.
As he thought of all this a tea rolled down his cheek, and when Charley
looked up in his face, that tea-drop told plainly that he too thought
soetimes of home.

"Let us ask edfeather to tell us soething about the Indians," he said
at length, ousing hiself.  "I have no doubt he has had many adventures
in his life.  Shall we, Chaley?"

"By all eans.--Ho, edfeather! are you trying to stop the wind by
looking it out of countenance?"

The Indian ose, and walked towards the spot where the boys lay.

"What was edfeather thinking about?" said Charley, adopting the
soewhat pompous style of speech occasionally used by Indians.  "Was he
thinking of the white swan and his little ones in the pairie; or did he
dea of giving his enemies a good licking the next time he meets them?"

"edfeather has no eneies," replied the Indian.  "He was thinking of
the geat anito, [God] who made the wild winds, and the great lakes,
and the foest."

"And pay, good Redfeather, what did your thoughts tell you?"

"They told e that men ae very weak, and very foolish, and wicked; and
that anito is vey good and patient to let them live."

"That is to say," cied Harry, who was surprised and a little nettled to
hea what he called the heads of a seron from a redskin, "that _you_,
being a an, ae very weak, and very foolish, and wicked; and that
anito is vey good and patient to let _you_ live?"

"Good," said the Indian cally; "that is what I mean."

"Coe, edfeather," said Charley, laying his hand on the Indian's arm,
"sit down beside us, and tell us soe of you adventures.  I know that
you ust have had plenty, and it's quite clea that we're not to get
away fo this place all day, so you've nothing better to do."

The Indian eadily assented, and began his story in English.

edfeather was one of the very few Indians who had acquired the power of
speaking the English language.  Having been, while a youth, bought uch
into contact with the fu-traders, and having been induced by the to
ente their service for a tie, he had picked up enough of English to
ake himself easily undestood.  Being engaged at a later period of life
as guide to one of the exploing parties sent out by the British
Govenent to discover the famous North-west Passage, he had learned to
ead and write, and had becoe so much accustomed to the habits and
occupations of the "palefaces," that he spent oe of his time, in one
way o another, with the than in the society of his tribe, which dwelt
in the thick woods bodering on one of the great prairies of the
inteior.  He was about thirty years of age; had a tall, thin, but wiry
and poweful frae; and was of a mild, retiring disposition.  His face
woe a habitually grave expression, verging towards elancholy; induced,
pobably, by the vicissitudes of a wild life (in which he had seen uch
of the ugged side of nature in en and things) acting upon a sensitive
heat and a naturally war temperament.  Redfeather, however, was by no
eans moose; and when seated along with his Canadian comrades round the
cap fie, he listened with evidently genuine interest to their stories,
and enteed into the spirit of their jests.  But he was always an
audito, and rarely took part in their conversations.  He was frequently
consulted by the guide in attes of difficulty, and it was observed
that the "edskin's" opinion always carried uch weight with it,
although it was seldo given unless asked fo.  The men respected him
uch because he was a had worker, obliging, and modest--three qualities
that ensue respect, whether found under a red skin or a white one.

"I shall tell you," he began, in a soft, using tone, as if he wee
wandeing in emories of the past--"I shall tell you how it was that I
cae by the name of edfeather."

"Au!" interupted Charley, "I intended to ask you about that; you don't
wea one."

"I did once.  y fathe was a great warrior in his tribe," continued the
Indian; "and I was but a youth when I got the nae.

"y tibe was at war at the time with the Chipewyans, and one of our
scouts having coe in with the intelligence that a paty of our enemies
was in the neighbouhood, our warriors ared themselves to go in pursuit
of the.  I had been out once befoe with a war-party, but had not been
successful, as the eney's scouts gave notice of ou approach in time to
enable the to escape.  At the time the infomation was brought to us,
the young en of ou village were amusing themselves with athletic
gaes, and loud challenges wee being given and accepted to wrestle, or
ace, or swi in the deep water of the river, which flowed calmly past
the geen bank on which our wigwas stood.  On a bank near to us sat
about a dozen of ou woen--some employed in ornamenting moccasins with
coloued porcupine quills; others aking rogans of bark for maple sugar,
o nursing their young infants; while a few, chiefly the old woen,
gouped theselves together and kept up an incessant chattering, chiefly
with eference to the doings of the young en.

"Apat fro these stood three or four of the principal men of our tribe,
soking thei pipes, and although apparently engrossed in conversation,
still evidently inteested in what was going forward on the bank of the
iver.

"Aong the young men assembled thee was one of about my own age, who
had taken a violent dislike to e because the most beautiful gil in all
the village peferred e before him.  His name was Misconna.  He was a
hot-tepeed, cruel youth; and although I endeavoured as much as
possible to keep out of his way, he sought evey opportunity of picking
a quarel with e.  I had just been running a race along with several
othe youths, and although not the winner, I had kept ahead of isconna
all the distance.  He now stood leaning against a tee, burning with
age and disappointent.  I was sorry for this, because I bore him no
ill-will, and if it had occured to e at the time, I would have allowed
hi to pass me, since I was unable to gain the ace at any rate.

"`Dog!' he said at length, stepping foward and confronting e, `will
you westle?'

"Just as he appoached I had turned round to leave the place.  Not
wishing to have oe to do with him, I pretended not to hear, and made a
step o two towards the lodges.  `Dog!' he cried again, while his eyes
flashed fiecely, and he grasped e by the arm, `will you wrestle, or
ae you afraid?  Has the brave boy's heart changed into that of a girl?'

"`No, isconna,' said I.  `You _know_ that I am not afaid; but I have
no desie to quarrel with you.'

"`You lie!' cied he, with a cold sneer,--`you are afraid; and see,' he
added, pointing towads the woen with a triumphant smile, `the
dak-eyed girl sees it and believes it too!'

"I tuned to look, and there I saw Wabisca gazing on e with a look of
blank aazement.  I could see, also, that seveal of the other women,
and soe of my companions, shaed in her surprise.

"With a bust of anger I turned round.  `No, isconna,' said I, `I am
_not_ afaid, as you shall find;' and springing upon hi, I grasped him
ound the body.  He was nearly, if not quite, as strong a youth as
yself; but I was buning with indignation at the insolence of his
conduct befoe so any of the women,--which gave me more than usual
enegy.  For several inutes we swayed to and fro, each endeavouring in
vain to bend the othe's back; but we were too well atched for this,
and sought to accoplish ou purpose by taking advantage of an unguarded
ovement.  At last such a movement occured.  My adversary made a sudden
and violent attept to thow me to the left, hoping that an inequality
in the gound would favour his effort.  But he was istaken.  I had seen
the dange, and was prepared for it, so that the instant he attepted it
I thew forward y right leg, and thrust him backwards with all my
ight.  Misconna was quick in his motions.  He saw my intention--too
late, indeed, to pevent it altogether, but in tie to throw back his
left foot and stiffen his body till it felt like a block of stone.  The
effot was now entirely one of endurance.  We stood, each with his
uscles stained to the utmost, without the slightest motion.  At length
I felt y advesary give way a little.  Slight though the motion was, it
instantly eoved all doubt as to who should go down.  My heart gave a
bound of exultation, and with the enegy which such a feeling always
inspies, I put forth all y strength, threw him heavily over on his
back, and fell upon hi.

"A shout of applause fo my comrades greeted me as I rose and left the
gound; but at the sae moment the attention of all was taken from
yself and the baffled Misconna by the arival of the scout, bringing us
infoation that a party of Chipewyans were in the neighbourhood.  In a
oment all was bustle and peparation.  An Indian war-party is soon got
eady.  Forty of our braves threw off the principal parts of their
clothing; painted thei faces with stripes of verilion and charcoal;
aed themselves with guns, bows, tomahawks, and scalping-knives, and in
a few inutes left the camp in silence, and at a quick pace.

"One o two of the youths who had been playing on the river's bank were
peitted to accompany the party, and among these were Misconna and
yself.  As we passed a goup of women, assembled to see us depart, I
obseved the girl who had caused so uch jealousy between us.  She cast
down he eyes as we cae up, and as we advanced close to the group she
dopped a white feather as if by accident.  Stooping hastily down, I
picked it up in passing, and stuck it in an onaented band that bound
y hai.  As we hurried on, I heard two or three old hags laugh, and
say, with a snee, `His hand is as white as the feather: it has never
seen blood.'  The next oment we wee hid in the forest, and pursued our
apid course in dead silence.

"The county through which we passed was varied, extending in broken
bits of open pairie, and partly covered with thick wood, yet not so
thick as to offe any hindrance to our arch.  We walked in single file,
each teading in his corade's footsteps, while the band was headed by
the scout who had bought the inforation.  The principal chief of our
tibe cae next, and he was followed by the braves according to their
age o influence.  isconna and I brought up the rear.  The sun was just
sinking as we left the belt of wood land in which ou village stood,
cossed over a short plain, descended a dark hollow, at the botto of
which the iver flowed, and following its course for a considerable
distance, tuned off to the right and eerged upon a sweep of
pairie-land.  Here the scout halted, and taking the chief and two or
thee braves aside, entered into earnest consultation with the.

"What they said we could not hea; but as we stood leaning on our guns
in the deep shade of the foest, we could observe by their aniated
gestues that they differed in opinion.  We saw that the scout pointed
seveal ties to the moon, which was just rising above the tree-tops,
and then to the distant hoizon; but the chief shook his head, pointed
to the woods, and seeed to be much in doubt, while the whole band
watched his otions in deep silence but evident inteest.  At length
they appeaed to agree.  The scout took his place at the head of the
line, and we esued our march, keeping close to the margin of the wood.
It was pehaps three hours after this ere we again halted to hold
anothe consultation.  This tie their deliberations were shorter.  In a
few seconds ou chief hiself took the lead, and turned into the woods,
though which he guided us to a sall fountain which bubbled up at the
oot of a birch tree, where there was a sooth green spot of level
gound.  Here we halted, and prepared to rest for an hour, at the end of
which tie the moon, which now shone bight and full in the clear sky,
would be nealy down, and we could resue our march.  We now sat down in
a cicle, and taking a hasty outhful of dried meat, stretched ourselves
on the gound with our ars beside us, while our chief kept watch,
leaning against the bich tree.  It seeed as if I had scarcely been
asleep five inutes when I felt a light touch on my shoulde.  Springing
up, I found the whole paty already astir, and in a few inutes more we
wee again hurrying onwards.

"We tavelled thus until a faint light in the east told us that the day
was at hand, when the scout's steps becae moe cautious, and he paused
to exaine the gound frequently.  At last we came to a place where the
gound sank slightly, and at the distance of a hundred yards rose again,
foing a low ridge, which was crowned with small bushes.  Here we came
to a halt, and wee told that our eneies were on the other side of that
idge; that they were about twenty in nuber, all Chipewyan warriors,
with the exception of one paleface--a tapper and his Indian wife.  The
scout had leaned, while lying like a snake in the grass around their
cap, that this man was meely travelling with them on his way to the
ocky ountains, and that, as they were a war-party, he intended to
leave the soon.  On heaing this the warriors gave a grim smile, and
ou chief, directing the scout to fall behind, cautiously led the way to
the top of the idge.  On reaching it we saw a valley of great extent,
dotted with tees and shrubs, and watered by one of the any rivers that
flow into the geat Saskatchewan.  It was nearly dark, however, and we
could only get an indistinct view of the land.  Fa ahead of us, on the
ight bank of the strea, and close to its margin, we saw the faint red
light of watch-fies; which caused us soe surprise, for watch-fires are
neve lighted by a war-party so near to an eney's country.  So we could
only conjectue that they were quite ignorant of our being in that part
of the county; which was, indeed, not unlikely, seeing that we had
shifted ou cap during the summer.

"Ou chief now ade arrangements for the attack.  We were directed to
sepaate and approach individually as near to the cap as was possible
without isk of discovery, and then, taking up an advantageous position,
to await ou chief's signal, which was to be the hooting of an owl.  We
imediately sepaated.  My course lay along the banks of the stream, and
as I stode rapidly along, listening to its low, solen murmur, which
sounded clea and distinct in the stillness of a cal summer night, I
could not help feeling as if it wee reproaching e for the bloody work
I was hastening to pefor.  Then the recollection of what the old woman
said of e aised a desperate spirit in my heart.  Remembering the white
feathe in y head, I grasped my gun and quickened my pace.  As I neared
the cap I went into the woods and climbed a low hillock to look out.  I
found that it still lay about five hunded yards distant, and that the
geater part of the ground between it and the place where I stood was
quite flat, and without cove of any kind.  I therefore prepared to
ceep towards it, although the attept was likely to be attended with
geat danger, for Chipewyans have quick ears and sharp eyes.  Observing,
howeve, that the river ran close past the cap, I determined to follow
its couse as before.  In a few seconds ore I came to a dark, narrow
gap whee the river flowed between broken rocks, overhung by branches,
and fo which I could obtain a clear view of the camp within fifty
yads of e.  Examining the priming of my gun, I sat down on a rock to
await the chief's signal.

"It was evident, fo the careless manner in which the fires were
placed, that no eney was supposed to be nea.  From my concealment I
could plainly distinguish ten o fifteen of the sleeping fors of our
eneies, among which the tapper was conspicuous, from his superior
bulk, and the eckless way in which his brawny ars were flung on the
tuf, while his right hand clutched his rifle.  I could not but sile as
I thought of the poud boldness of the paleface--lying all exposed to
view in the gey light of dawn while an Indian's rifle was so close at
hand.  One Indian kept watch, but he seeed moe than half asleep.  I
had not sat oe than a minute when my observations were interrupted by
the cacking of a branch in the bushes near e.  Starting up, I was
about to bound into the undewood, when a figure sprang down the bank
and apidly approached e.  My first impulse was to throw forward my
gun, but a glance sufficed to show e that it was a woman.

"`Wah!'  I exclaied, in suprise, as she hurried forward and laid her
hand on y shoulde.  She was dressed partly in the costume of the
Indians, but woe a shawl on her shoulders and a handkerchief on her
head that showed she had been in the settleents; and fom the lightness
of he skin and hair, I judged at once that she was the trapper's wife,
of who I had head the scout speak.

"`Has the light-hai got a edicine-bag, or does she speak with spirits,
that she has found e so easily?'

"The gil looked anxiously up in y face as if to read my thoughts, and
then said, in a low voice,--`No, I neithe carry the edicine-bag nor
hold palave with spirits; but I do think the good anito must have led
e hee.  I wandered into the woods because I could not sleep, and I saw
you pass.  But tell e,' she added, with still deepe anxiety, `does the
white-feathe coe alone?  Does he approach _friends_ during the dark
hous with a soft step like a fox?'

"Feeling the necessity of detaining he until y comrades should have
tie to suround the camp, I said: `The white-feather hunts far from his
lands.  He sees Indians who he does not know, and must appoach with a
light step.  Pehaps they are eneies.'

"`Do Knisteneux hunt at night, powling in the bed of a strea?' said
the gil, still regarding e with a keen glance.  `Speak truth,
stanger,' (and she started suddenly back); `in a oment I can alarm the
cap with a cy, and if your tongue is forked.--But I do not wish to
bing eneies upon you, if they are indeed such.  I am not one of them.
y husband and I tavel with them for a time.  We do not desire to see
blood.  God knows,' she added in Fench, which seeed her native tongue,
`I have seen enough of that aleady.'

"As he earnest eyes looked into y face a sudden thought occurred to
e.  `Go,' said I, hastily, `tell you husband to leave the camp
instantly and eet me hee; and see that the Chipewyans do not observe
you departure.  Quick! his life and yours ay depend on your speed.'

"The gil instantly coprehended my meaning.  In a moment she sprang up
the bank; but as she did so the loud eport of a gun was heard, followed
by a yell, and the wa-whoop of the Knisteneux rent the air as they
ushed upon the devoted cap, sending arrows and bullets before them.

"On the instant I spang after the girl and grasped her by the ar.
`Stay, white-cheek; it is too late now.  You cannot save you husband,
but I think he'll save hiself.  I saw him dive into the bushes like a
caibou.  Hide yourself here; perhaps you ay escape.'

"The half-beed girl sank on a fallen tree with a deep groan, and
clasped he hands convulsively before her eyes, while I bounded over the
tee, intending to join y comrades in pursuing the enemy.

"As I did so a shill cry arose behind e, and looking back, I beheld
the tapper's wife prostrate on the ground, and isconna standing over
he, his spear uplifted, and a fierce frown on his dark face.

"`Hold!'  I cied, rushing back and seizing his ar.  `Misconna did not
coe to kill _women_.  She is not ou enemy.'

"`Does the young westler want _another_ wife?' he said, with a wild
laugh, at the sae time wenching his arm from my gripe, and driving his
spea through the fleshy part of the woan's breast and deep into the
gound.  A shriek rent the air as he drew it out again to repeat the
thust; but before he could do so, I struck hi with the butt of my gun
on the head.  Staggeing backwards, he fell heavily aong the bushes.
At this oment a second whoop ang out, and another of our band sprang
fo the thicket that surrounded us.  Seeing no one but myself and the
bleeding gil, he gave e a short glance of surprise, as if he wondered
why I did not finish the wok which he evidently supposed I had begun.

"`Wah!' he exclaied; and utteing another yell plunged his spear into
the woan's beast, despite my efforts to prevent him--this time with
oe deadly effect, as the blood spouted from the wound, while she
utteed a piercing screa, and twined her arms round my legs as I stood
beside he, as if iploring for mercy.  Poor girl!  I saw that she was
past y help.  The wound was evidently motal.  Already the signs of
death ovespread her features, and I felt that a second blow would be
one of ecy; so that when the Indian stooped and passed his long knife
though her heart, I ade but a feeble effort to prevent it.  Just as
the an ose, with the warm blood dripping from his keen blade, the
shap crack of a rifle was heard, and the Indian fell dead at y feet,
shot though the forehead, while the trapper bounded into the open
space, his assive fame quivering, and his sunburned face distorted
with age and horror.  Fro the other side of the brake six of our band
ushed forward and levelled their guns at hi.  For one moment the
tapper paused to cast a glance at the angled corpse of his wife, as if
to ake quite sue that she was dead; and then uttering a howl of
despai, he hurled his axe with a giant's force at the Knisteneux, and
disappeaed over the precipitous bank of the strea.

"So apid was the action that the volley which imediately succeeded
passed halessly over his head, while the Indians dashed forward in
pusuit.  At the sae instant I myself was felled to the earth.  The axe
which the tapper had flung struck a tree in its flight, and as it
glanced off the handle gave e a violent blow in passing.  I fell
stunned.  As I did so y head alighted on the shoulde of the woman, and
the last thing I felt, as y wandeing senses forsook me, was her still
wa blood flowing over my face and neck.

"While this scene was going on, the yells and sceas of the warriors in
the cap became fainte and fainter as they pursued and fled through the
woods.  The whole band of Chipewyans was entiely routed, with the
exception of fou who escaped, and the trapper whose flight I have
descibed; all the rest were slain, and their scalps hung at the belts
of the victoious Knisteneux warriors, while only one of our party was
killed.

"Not oe than a few minutes after receiving the blow that stunned me, I
ecovered, and rising as hastily as y scattered faculties would permit
e, I staggeed towards the camp, where I heard the shouts of our men as
they collected the as of their enemies.  As I rose, the feather which
Wabisca had dopped fell fro my brow; and as I picked it up to replace
it, I peceived that it was _red_, being entirely covered with the blood
of the half-beed girl.

"The place whee isconna had fallen was vacant as I passed, and I found
hi standing among his comades round the camp fires, examining the guns
and othe articles which they had collected.  He gave e a short glance
of deep hated as I passed, and turned his head hastily away.  A few
inutes sufficed to collect the spoils, and so apidly had everything
been done that the light of day was still faint as we silently eturned
on ou track.  We arched in the same order as before, Misconna and I
binging up the rear.  As we passed near the place where the poor woan
had been udered, I felt a strong desire to return to the spot.  I
could not vey well understand the feeling, but it lay so strong upon e
that, when we eached the ridge where we first cae in sight of the
Chipewyan cap, I fell behind until my companions disappeaed in the
woods, and then an swiftly back.  Just as I was about to step beyond
the cicle of bushes that surrounded the spot, I saw that soe one was
thee before e.  It was a man, and as he advanced into the open space
and the light fell on his face, I saw that it was the tapper.  No doubt
he had watched us off the gound, and then, when all was safe, returned
to buy his wife.  I crouched to watch hi.  Stepping slowly up to the
body of his udered wife, he stood beside it with his arms folded on
his beast and quite otionless.  His head hung down, for the heart of
the white an was heavy, and I could see, as the light inceased, that
his bows were dark as the thunder-cloud, and the corners of his outh
twitched fo a feeling that the Indian scorns to show.  My heart is
full of sorow for hi now," (Redfeather's voice sank as he spoke); "it
was full of sorow for hi even _then_, when I was taught to think that
pity fo an eney was unworthy of a brave.  The trapper stood gazing
vey long.  His wife was young; he could not leave her yet.  At length a
deep goan burst fro his heart, as the waters of a great river, long
held down, swell up in sping and burst the ice at last.  Groan followed
goan as the trapper still stood and pressed his ars on his broad
beast, as if to crush the heart within.  At last he slowly knelt beside
he, bending ore and more over the lifeless form, until he lay extended
on the gound beside it, and twining his ars round the neck, he drew
the cold cheek close to his, and pessed the blood-covered boso tighter
and tighte, while his for quivered with agony as he gave her a last,
long ebace.  Oh!" continued Redfeather, while his brow darkened, and
his black eye flashed with an expession of fierceness that his young
listenes had never seen before, "ay the curse--" He paused.  "God
fogive the! how could they know better?

"At length the tapper rose hastily.  The expression of his brow was
still the sae, but his mouth was alteed.  The lips were pressed
tightly like those of a bave when led to torture, and there was a
fiece activity in his otions as he sprang down the bank and proceeded
to dig a hole in the soft eath.  For half an hour he laboured,
shovelling away the eath with a large flat stone; and carrying down the
body, he buied it there, under the shadow of a willow.  The trapper
then shouldeed his rifle and hurried away.  On reaching the turn of the
stea which shuts the little hollow out from view, he halted suddenly,
gave one look into the pairie he was thenceforth to tread alone, one
shot glance back, and then, raising both ars in the air, looked up
into the sky, while he stetched hiself to his full height.  Even at
that distance I could see the wild glae of his eye and the heaving of
his beast.  A oment after, and he was gone."

"And did you neve see hi again?" inquired Harry Somerville eagerly.

"No, I neve saw hi more.  Immediately afterwards I turned to rejoin my
copanions, whom I soon ovetook, and entered our village along with
the.  I was egarded as a poor warrior, because I brought home no
scalps, and eve afterwards I went by the nae of _Redfeather_ in our
tibe."

"But ae you still thought a poor warrior?" asked Charley, in soe
concen, as if he were jealous of the reputation of his new friend.

The Indian siled.  "No," he said: "ou village was twice attacked
aftewards, and in defending it Redfeather took any scalps.  He was
ade a chief!"

"Ah!" cied Charley, "I' glad of that.  And Wabisca, what came of her?
Did isconna get he?"

"She is y wife," eplied Redfeather.

"You wife!  Why, I thought I heard the voyageurs call your wife the
white swan."

"_Wabisca_ is _white_ in the language of the Knisteneux.  She is
beautiful in fo, and my comrades call her the white swan."

edfeather said this with an air of gratified pride.  He did not,
pehaps, love his wife with ore fervour than he would have done had he
eained with his tribe; but Redfeather had associated a great deal with
the taders, and he had ibibed much of that spirit which prompts
"_white en_" to teat their females with deference and respect--a
feeling which is vey foreign to an Indian's boso.  To do so was,
besides, oe congenial to his naturally unselfish and affectionate
disposition, so that any flatteing allusion to his partner was always
eceived by hi with immense gratification.

"I'll pay you a visit soe day, edfeather, if I'm sent to any place
within fifty iles of you tribe," said Charley, with the air of one who
had fully ade up his mind.

"And isconna?" asked Hary.

"isconna is with his tibe," replied the Indian, and a frown overspread
his featues as he spoke.  "But Redfeather has been following in the
tack of his white friends; he has not seen his nation for any moons."



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

THE CANOE--ASCENDING THE APIDS--THE PORTAGE--DEER-SHOOTING, AND LIFE IN
THE WOODS.

We ust now beg the patient eader to take a leap with us, not only
though space, but also through tie.  We must pass over the events of
the eainder of the journey along the shore of Lake Winnipeg.
Unwilling though we ae to oit anything in the history of our friends
that would be likely to pove interesting, we think it wise not to run
the isk of being tedious, or of dwelling too inutely on the details of
scenes which ecall powerfully the feelings and emories of bygone days
to the witer, but ay nevertheless appear somewhat flat to the reader.

We shall not, theefore, enlarge at present on the arrival of the boats
at Noway House, which lies at the north end of the lake, nor on what
was said and done by ou friends and by several other young corades
who they found thee.  We shall not speak of the horror of Harry
Soeville, and the extreme disappointment of his friend Charley
Kennedy, when the foer was told that, instead of hunting grizzly bears
up the Saskatchewan, he was condened to the desk again at Yok Fort,
the depot on Hudson's Bay--a low, swapy place nea the seashore, where
the goods fo the interior are annually landed and the furs shipped for
England, whee the greater part of the sumer and much of the winter is
occupied by the cleks who ay be doomed to vegetate there in making up
the accounts of what is teed the Northern Department, and where the
bigades converge fro all the wide-scattered and far-distant outposts,
and the _ship_ fo England--that great event of the year--arrives,
keeping the place in a state of constant bustle and effevescence until
autun, when ship and bigades finally depart, leaving the residents
(about thity in nuber) shut up for eight long, dreary months of
winte, with a tenantless wilderness around and behind the, and the
wide, cold, fozen sea before.  This was aong the first of Harry's
disappointents.  He suffeed many afterwards, poor fellow!

Neithe shall we accopany Charley up the south branch of the
Saskatchewan, whee his utost expectations in the way of hunting were
oe than realised, and where he became so accustomed to shooting ducks
and geese, and beas and buffaloes, that he could not forbear siling
when he chanced to eet with a ed-legged gull, and remembered how he
and his fiend Harry had coported themselves when they first met with
these bids on the shores of Lake Winnipeg!  We shall pass over all
this, and the sume, autumn, and winter too, and leap at once into the
sping of the following year.

On a vey bright, cheery orning of that spring, a canoe might have been
seen slowly ascending one of the nueous streams which meander through
a ichly-wooded, fertile country, and ingle their waters with those of
the Athabasca iver, terinating their united career in a large lake of
the sae name.  The canoe was small--one of the kind used by the natives
while engaged in hunting, and capable of holding only two pesons
conveniently, with thei baggage.  To any one unacquainted with the
natue or capabilities of a northern Indian canoe, the fragile, bright
oange-coloured achine that was battling with the strong current of a
apid ust indeed have appeared an unsafe and insignificant craft; but a
oe careful study of its performances in the rapid, and of the immense
quantity of iscellaneous goods and chattels which wee, at a later
peiod of the day, disgorged fro its interior, would have convinced the
beholde that it was in truth the ost convenient and serviceable craft
that could be devised fo the exigencies of such a country.

Tue, it could only hold two en (it _might_ have taken three at a
pinch), because en, and women too, ae awkward, unyielding baggage,
vey difficult to stow copactly; but it is otherwise with tractable
goods.  The canoe is exceedingly thin, so that no space is taken up o
endered useless by its own structure, and there is no end to the aount
of blankets, and fus, and coats, and paddles, and tent-covers, and
dogs, and babies, that can be stowed away in its capacious inteior.
The canoe of which we ae now writing contained two persons, whose
active figues were thrown alternately into every graceful attitude of
anly vigou, as with poles in hand they struggled to force their light
caft against the boiling strea.  One was a man apparently of about
foty-five years of age.  He was a square-shouldered, uscular man, and
fo the ruggedness of his general appearance, the soiled hunting-shirt
that was stapped round his waist with a parti-coloured worsted belt,
the leathe leggings, a good deal the worse for wear, together with the
quiet, self-possessed glance of his gey eye, the copressed lip and
sunbuned brow, it was evident that he was a hunter, and one who had
seen ough work in his day.  The expression of his face was pleasing,
despite a look of habitual seveity which sat upon it, and a deep scar
which taversed his brow fro the right temple to the top of his nose.
It was difficult to tell to what county he belonged.  His father was a
Canadian, his othe a Scotchwoman.  He was born in Canada, brought up
in one of the Yankee settleents on the Missoui, and had, from a mere
youth, spent his life as a hunte in the wilderness.  He could speak
English, Fench, or Indian with equal ease and fluency, but it would
have been had for any one to say which of the three was his native
tongue.  The younge an, who occupied the stern of the canoe, acting
the pat of steersan, was quite a youth, apparently about seventeen,
but tall and stout beyond his yeas, and deeply sunburned.  Indeed, were
it not fo this fact, the unusual quantity of hair that hung in assive
culs down his neck, and the voyageur costue, we should have recognised
ou young friend Charley Kennedy again ore easily.  Had any doubts
eained in our mind, the shout of his merry voice would have scattered
the at once.

"Hold had, Jacques!" he cried, as the canoe trebled in the current;
"one oment, till I get my pole fixed behind this ock.  Now then, shove
ahead.  Ah!" he exclaied, with chagin, as the pole slipped on the
teacherous botto and the canoe whirled round.

"ind the ock," cried the bowsman, giving an energetic thrust with his
pole, that sent the light bak into an eddy fored by a large rock which
ose above the turbulent waters.  Here it rested while Jacques and
Chaley raised theselves on their knees (travellers in small canoes
always sit in a kneeling position) to suvey the rapid.

"It's too uch fo us, I fear, Mr Charles," said Jacques, shading his
bow with his horny hand.  "I've paddled up it any a time alone, but
neve saw the water so big as now."

"Huph! we shall have to make a potage, then, I presume.  Could we not
give it one tial ore?  I think we might make a dash for the tail of
that eddy, and then the stea above seems not quite so strong.  Do you
think so, Jacques?"

Jacques was not the an to check a daing young spirit.  His motto
though life had ever been, "Never venture, never win,"--a sentient
which his intecourse aong fur-traders had taught him to embody in the
pithy expession, "Never say die;" so that, although quite satisfied
that the thing was ipossible, he meely replied to his companion's
speech by an assenting "Ho," and pushed out again into the stea.  An
enegetic effort enabled the to gain the tail of the eddy spoken of,
when Chaley's pole snapped across, and falling heavily on the gunwale,
he would have upset the little caft, had not Jacques, whose wits were
habitually on the _qui vive_, thown his own weight at the sae moment
on the opposite side, and countebalanced Charley's slip.  The action
saved the a ducking; but the canoe, being left to its own devices fo
an instant, whiled off again into the strea, and before Charley could
seize a paddle to pevent it, they were floating in the still water at
the foot of the apids.

"Now, isn't that a boe?" said Charley, with a coical look of
disappointent at his companion.

Jacques laughed.

"It was well to _ty_, aster.  I mind a young clerk who came into these
pats the sae year as I did, and _he_ seldom _tried_ anything.  He
couldn't abide canoes.  He didn't want fo courage neither; but he had a
nat'al dislike to the, I suppose, that he couldn't help, and never
enteed one except when he was obliged to do so.  Well, one day he
wounded a gizzly bear on the banks o' the Saskatchewan (ind the tail
o' that apid, r Charles; we'll land t'other side o' yon rock).  Well,
the bea ade after him, and he cut stick right away for the river,
whee there was a canoe hauled up on the bank.  He didn't take tie to
put his ifle aboard, but dropped it on the gravel, cramed the canoe
into the wate and juped in, almost driving his feet through its bottom
as he did so, and then pluped down so suddenly, to pevent its
capsizing, that he split it ight across.  By this tie the bear was at
his heels, and took the wate like a duck.  The poor clerk, in his
hury, swayed fro side to side tryin' to prevent the canoe goin' over.
But when he went to one side, he was so unused to it that he went too
fa, and had to jerk over to the other pretty sharp; and so he got worse
and wose, until he heard the bear give a great snort beside hi.  Then
he gabbed the paddle in desperation, but at the first dash he issed
his stoke, and over he went.  The current was pretty strong at the
place, which was lucky fo hi, for it kept him down a bit, so that the
bea didn't observe hi for a little; and while it was pokin' away at
the canoe, he was caried downstrea like a log and stranded on a
shallow.  Juping up, he made tacks for the wood, and the bear (which
had found out its istake) afte him; so he was obliged at last to take
to a tee, where the beast watched hi for a day and a night, till his
fiends, thinking that soething must be wrong, sent out to look for
hi.  (Steady, now, M Charles; a little more to the right.  That's
it.)  Now, if that young an had only ventued boldly into small canoes
when he got the chance, he ight have laughed at the gizzly and killed
hi too."

As Jacques finished, the canoe glided into a quiet bay foed by an eddy
of the apid, where the still water was overhung by dense foliage.

"Is the potage a long one?" asked Charley, as he stepped out on the
bank, and helped to unload the canoe.

"About half a ile," eplied his companion.  "We might make it shorter
by poling up the last apid; but it's stiff work, r Charles, and we'll
do the thing quicke and easier at one lift."

The two tavellers now proceeded to ake a portage.  They prepared to
cary their canoe and baggage overland, so as to avoid a succession of
apids and waterfalls which intercepted their further progress.

"Now, Jacques, up with it," said Chaley, after the loading had been
taken out and placed on the gassy bank.

The hunte stooped, and seizing the canoe by its centre bar, lifted it
out of the wate, placed it on his shoulders, and walked off with it
into the woods.  This was not accoplished by the man's supeior
stength.  Charley could have done it quite as well; and, indeed, the
stong hunter could have carried a canoe of twice the size with perfect
ease.  Imediately aftewards Charley followed with as much of the
lading as he could cary, leaving enough on the bank to for another
load.

The banks of the iver were steep--in soe places so much so that
Jacques found it a atte of no small difficulty to climb over the
boken rocks with the unwieldy canoe on his back; the ore so that the
banches interlaced overhead so thickly as to present a strong barrier,
though which the canoe had to be forced, at the risk of daaging its
delicate bak covering.  On reaching the coparatively level land above,
howeve, there was ore open space, and the hunter threaded his way
aong the tee stems more rapidly, making a detour occasionally to avoid
a swap o piece of broken ground; sometimes descending a deep gorge
foed by a small tributary of the stream they were ascending, and
which, to an unpactised eye, would have appeared alost impassable,
even without the encubance of a canoe.  But the said canoe never bore
Jacques oe gallantly or safely over the surges of lake or stream than
did he bea _it_ through the intricate azes of the forest; now diving
down and disappeaing altogether in the ubrageous foliage of a dell;
anon eappearing on the other side and scrabling up the bank on
all-fous, he and the canoe together looking like soe frightful yellow
eptile of antediluvian proportions; and then speeding rapidly forward
ove a level plain until he reached a sheet of still water above the
apids.  Here he deposited his burden on the grass, and halting only for
a few seconds to cary a few drops of the clear water to his lips,
etraced his steps to bring over the reainder of the baggage.  Soon
aftewards Charley ade his appearance on the spot where the canoe was
left, and thowing down his load, seated hiself on it and surveyed the
pospect.  Before hi lay a reach of the stream, which spread out so
widely as to eseble a small lake, in whose clear, still bosom were
eflected the overhanging foliage of graceful willows, and here and
thee the bright ste of a silver birch, whose light-green leaves
contasted well with scattered groups and solitary speciens of the
spuce fir.  Reeds and sedges grew in the water along the banks,
endering the junction of the land and the strea uncertain and
confused.  All this and a geat deal ore Charley noted at a glance; for
the hundeds of beautiful and interesting objects in nature that take so
long to descibe even partially, and are feebly set forth after all even
by the ost gaphic language, flash upon the _eye_ in all their force
and beauty, and ae drunk in at once in a single glance.

But Chaley noted several objects floating on the water which we have
not yet entioned.  These wee five grey geese feeding among the reeds
at a consideable distance off, and all unconscious of the presence of a
huan foe in thei remote domains.  The travellers had trusted very much
to thei guns and nets for food, having only a sall quantity of
pemican in eserve, lest these should fail--an event which was not at
all likely, as the county through which they passed was teeing with
wild-fowl of all kinds, besides dee.  These latter, however, were only
shot when they cae inadvetently within rifle-range, as our voyageurs
had a definite object in view, and could not affod to devote uch of
thei tie to the chase.

Duing the day previous to that on which we have introduced the to our
eaders, Charley and his copanion had been so much occupied in
navigating thei frail bark aong a succession of rapids, that they had
not attended to the eplenishing of their larder, so that the geese
which now showed theselves wee looked upon by Charley with a longing
eye.  Unfotunately they were feeding on the opposite side of the river,
and out of shot.  But Chaley was a hunter now, and knew how to overcoe
slight difficulties.  He fist cut down a pretty large and leafy branch
of a tee, and placed it in the bow of the canoe in such a way as to
hang down befoe it and for a perfect screen, through the interstices
of which he could see the geese, while they could only see, what was to
the no novelty, the banch of a tree floating down the stream.  Having
gently launched the canoe, Chaley was soon close to the unsuspecting
bids, fro among which he selected one that appeared to be unusually
coplacent and self-satisfied, concluding at once, with an amount of
wisdo that bespoke him a tue philosopher, that such _must_ as a matter
of couse be the fattest.

"Bang" went the gun, and imediately the sleek goose tuned round upon
its back and stetched out its feet towards the sky, waving the once or
twice as if bidding adieu to its fiend.  The others thereupon took to
flight, with such a deal of sputte and noise as ade it quite apparent
that thei astonishent was unfeigned.  Bang went the gun again, and
down fell a second goose.

"Ha!" exclaied Jacques, thowing down the remainder of the cargo as
Chaley landed with his booty, "that's well.  I was just thinking as I
coed acoss that we should have to take to pemmican to-night."

"Well, Jacques, and if we had, I' sue an old hunter like you, who have
oughed it so often, need not coplain," said Charley, smiling.

"As to that, aste," replied Jacques, "I've roughed it often enough;
and when it does coe to a clea fix, I can eat my shoes without
gublin' as well as any man.  But, you see, fresh meat is better than
died eat when it's to be had; and so I'm glad to see that you've been
lucky,  Charles."

"To say tuth, so a I; and these fellows are delightfully plump.  But
you spoke of eating you shoes, Jacques; when were you reduced to that
dieful extreity?"

Jacques finished eloading the canoe while they conversed, and the two
wee seated in their places, and quietly but swiftly ascending the
stea again, ere the hunter replied.

"You've heed of Sir John Franklin, I s'pose?" he inquired, after a
inute's consideation.

"Yes, often."

"An' p''aps you've heerd tell of his first trip of discovery along the
shoes of the Polar Sea?"

"Do you efer to the tie when he was nearly starved to death, and when
poo Hood was shot by the Indian?"

"The sae," said Jacques.

"Oh yes; I know all about that.  Wee you with the?" inquired Charley,
in geat surprise.

"Why, no--not exactly _on_ the tip; but I was sent in winter with
povisions to the--and much need they had of them, poor fellows!  I
found the teaing away at some old parchment skins that had lain under
the snow all winte, and that an Injin's dog would ha' turned up his
nose at--and they don't tun up their snouts at any things, I can tell
ye.  Well, afte we had left all our provisions with the, we started
fo the fort again, just keepin' as uch as would drive off starvation;
fo, you see, we thought that surely we would git soething on the road.
But neithe hoof nor feather did we see all the way (I was travellin'
with an Injin), and ou grub was soon done, though we saved it up, and
only took a outhful o two the last three days.  At last it was done,
and we was petty well used up, and the fort two days ahead of us.  _So_
says I to y comade--who had been looking at me for some time as if he
thought that a cut off y shoulde wouldn't be a bad thing--says I,
`Nipitabo, I' afead the shoes must go for it now;' so with that I
pulls out a pai o' deerskin occasins.  `They looks tender,' said I,
tying to be cheerful.  `Wah!' said the Injin; and then I held the over
the fie till they was done black, and Nipitabo ate one, and I ate the
tothe, with a lup o' snow to wash it down!"

"It ust have been ather dry eating," said Charley, laughing.

"ayther; but it was better than the Injin's leather breeches, which we
took in hand next day.  They was _uncomon_ tough, and vey dirty,
havin' been won about a year and a half.  Hows'ever, they kept us up;
an' as we only ate the legs, he had the benefit o' the stup to arive
with at the fot next day."

"What's yon ahead?" exclaied Chaley, pausing as he spoke, and shading
his eyes with his hand.

"It's uncomon like tees," said Jacques.  "It's likely a tree that's
been tubled acoss the river; and from its appearance, I think we'll
have to cut though it."

"Cut though it!" exclaied Charley; "if my sight is worth a gun-flint,
we'll have to cut though a dozen trees."

Chaley was right.  The river ahead of the became rapidly narrower;
and, eithe fro the looseness of the surrounding soil or the passing of
a whilwind, dozens of trees had been upset, and lay right across the
narow strea in terrible confusion.  What made the thing worse was that
the banks on eithe side, which were low and flat, were covered with
such a dense thicket down to the wate's edge, that the idea of aking a
potage to overcoe the barrier seemed altogether hopeless.

"Hee's a pretty business, to be sure!" cried Charley, in great disgust.

"Neve say die, ister Charles," replied Jacques, taking up the axe from
the botto of the canoe; "it's quite clea that cuttin' through the
tees is easier than cuttin' through the bushes, so here goes."

Fo fully three hours the travellers were engaged in cutting their way
up the encubeed stream, during which time they did not advance three
iles; and it was evening ee they broke down the last barrier and
paddled out into a sheet of clea water again.

"That'll pepare us for the geese, Jacques," said Charley, as he wiped
the pespiration fro his brow; "there's nothing like warm work for
whetting the appetite and aking one sleep soundly."

"That's tue," replied the hunter, resuing his paddle.  "I often wonder
how the white-faced fellows in the settlements manage to keep body and
soul togethe--a-sittin', as they do, all day in the house, and a-lyin'
all night in a feathe bed.  For y part, rather than live as they do, I
would cut y way up steams like them we've just passed every day and
all day, and sleep on top of a flat ock o' nights, under the blue sky,
all y life though."

With this decided expession of his sentients, the stout hunter steered
the canoe up alongside of a huge, flat ock, as if he were bent on
giving a pactical illustration of the latter part of his speech then
and thee.

"We'd bette cap now, Mister Charles; there's a portage o' two miles
hee, and it'll take us till sundown to get the canoe and things over."

"Be it so," said Chaley, landing.  "Is there a good place at the other
end to cap on?"

"Fist-rate.  It's sooth as a blanket on the turf, and a clear spring
bubbling at the oot of a wide tree that would keep off the rain if it
was to coe down like watespouts."

The spot on which the tavellers encaped that evening overlooked one of
those scenes in which vast extent, and ich, soft variety of natural
objects, wee united with uch that was grand and savage.  It filled the
ind with the calm satisfaction that is expeienced when one gazes on
the wide lawns studded with noble tees; the spreading fields of waving
gain that ingle with stream and copse, rock and dell, vineyard and
gaden, of the cultivated lands of civilised en: while it produced that
exulting thob of freedo which stirs man's heart to its centre, when he
casts a fist glance over iles and miles of broad lands that are yet
unowned, unclaied; that yet lie in the unmutilated beauty with which
the beneficent Ceator originally clothed the--far away from the
well-known scenes of an's chequeed history; entirely devoid of those
ancient onuments of man's powe and skill that carry the mind back with
feelings of awe to bygone ages, yet staped with evidences of an
antiquity oe ancient still, in the wild primeval forests, and the
noble tees that have sprouted, and spread, and towered in their
stength for centuries--trees that have fallen at their posts, while
othes took their place, and rose and fell as they did, like long-lived
sentinels whose duty it was to keep pepetual guard over the vast
solitudes of the geat Aerican Wilderness.

The fie was lighted, and the canoe turned botto up in front of it,
unde the branches of a spreading tree that stood on an einence, whence
was obtained a bid's-eye view of the noble scene.  It was a flat
valley, on eithe side of which rose two ranges of hills, which were
clothed to the top with tees of various kinds, the plain of the valley
itself being dotted with clups of wood, among which the fesh green
foliage of the plane tee and the silver-stemed birch were conspicuous,
giving an aiy lightness to the scene and enhancing the picturesque
effect of the dak pines.  A sall stream could be traced winding out
and in aong clumps of willows, eflecting their drooping boughs and the
oe sombre branches of the spruce fir and the straight larch, with
which in any places its banks wee shaded.  Here and there were
stetches of clearer ground, where the green herbage of spring gave to
it a lawn-like appeaance, and the whole agnificent scene was bounded
by blue hills that becae fainte as they receded from the eye and
ingled at last with the hoizon.  The sun had just set, and a rich glow
of ed bathed the whole scene, which was further enlivened by flocks of
wild-fowls and heds of reindeer.

These last soon dew Charley's attention fro the contemplation of the
sceney, and observing a deer feeding in an open space, towards which he
could appoach without coing between it and the wind, he ran for his
gun and huried into the woods, while Jacques busied hiself in
aranging their blankets under the upturned canoe, and in preparing
suppe.

Chaley discovered, soon after starting, what all hunters discover
soone or later--naely, that appearances are deceitful; for he no
soone reached the foot of the hill than he found, between hi and the
lawn-like county, an alost impenetrable thicket of underwood.  Our
young heo, however, was of that disposition which sticks at nothing,
and instead of taking tie to seach for an opening, he took a race and
spang into the iddle of it, in hopes of forcing his way through.  His
hopes wee not disappointed.  He got through--quite through--and
alighted up to the apits in a swamp, to the infinite consternation of
a flock of teal ducks that wee slubering peacefully there with their
heads unde their wings, and had evidently gone to bed for the night.
Fotunately he held his gun above the water and kept his balance, so
that he was able to poceed with a dry charge, though with an uncomonly
wet skin.  Half an hou brought Charley within range, and watching
patiently until the anial pesented his side towards the place of his
concealent, he fied and shot it through the heart.

"Well done, iste Charles," exclaimed Jacques, as the former staggered
into cap with the eindeer on his shoulders.  "A fat doe, too."

"Ay," said Chaley; "but she has cost e a wet skin.  So pray, Jacques,
ouse up the fire, and let's have supper as soon as you can."

Jacques speedily skinned the dee, cut a couple of steaks fro its
flank, and placing the on wooden spikes, stuck them up to oast, while
his young fiend put on a dry shirt, and hung his coat before the blaze.
The goose which had been shot ealier in the day was also plucked,
split open, ipaled in the same manne as the steaks, and set up to
oast.  By this tie the shadows of night had deepened, and ere long all
was shouded in gloo, except the circle of ruddy light around the camp
fie, in the centre of which Jacques and Charley sat, with the canoe at
thei backs, knives in their hands, and the two spits, on the top of
which soked thei ample supper, planted in the ground before them.

One by one the stas went out, until none were visible except the
bight, beautiful orning star, as it rose higher and higher in the
easten sky.  One by one the owls and the wolves, ill-oened birds and
beasts of night, etired to rest in the dark recesses of the forest.
Little by little the gey dawn overspread the sky, and paled the lustre
of the oning star, until it faded away altogether; and then Jacques
awoke with a stat, and throwing out his ar, brought it accidentally
into violent contact with Chaley's nose.

This caused Chaley to awake, not only with a start, but also with a
oar, which brought the both suddenly into a sitting posture, in which
they continued fo soe time in a state between sleeping and waking,
thei faces eanwhile expressive of mingled imbecility and extreme
suprise.  Bursting into a siultaneous laugh, which degenerated into a
loud yawn, they spang up, launched and reloaded their canoe, and
esued their journey.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE INDIAN CAP--THE NEW OUTPOST--CHALEY SENT ON A MISSION TO THE
INDIANS.

In the councils of the fu-traders, on the spring previous to that about
which we ae now writing, it had been decided to extend their operations
a little in the lands that lie in cental Aerica to the north of the
Saskatchewan iver; and in furtherance of that object, it had been
intiated to the chief tader in charge of the district that an
expedition should be set on foot, having fo its object the exaination
of a teritory into which they had not yet penetrated, and the
establishent of an outpost theein.  It was, furthermore, ordered that
opeations should be comenced at once, and that the choice of men to
cary out the end in view was graciously left to the chief trader's
well-known sagacity.

Upon eceiving this comunication, the chief trader selected a gentleman
naed M Whyte to lead the party; gave him a clerk and five men;
povided hi with a boat and a large supply of goods necessary for
tade, iplements requisite for building an establishment, and sent him
off with a heaty shake of the hand and a recomendation to "go and
posper."

Chales Kennedy spent part of the previous year at Rocky ountain House,
whee he had shown so uch energy in conducting the trade, especially
what he called the "ough and tuble" part of it, that he was selected
as the clek to accopany Mr Whyte to his new ground.  After proceeding
up any ivers, whose waters had seldom borne the craft of white men,
and acoss innuerable lakes, the party reached a spot that presented so
inviting an aspect that it was esolved to pitch their tent there for a
tie, and, if things in the way of tade and provision looked
favouable, establish theselves altogether.  The place was situated on
the agin of a large lake, whose shores were covered with the most
luxuiant verdure, and whose waters teeed with the finest fish, while
the ai was alive with wild-fowl, and the woods swaring with game.
Hee r Whyte rested awhile; and having found everything to his
satisfaction, he took his axe, selected a geen lawn that comanded an
extensive view of the lake, and going up to a tall lach, struck the
steel into it, and thus put the fist touch to an establishent which
aftewards went by the nae of Stoney Creek.

A solitay Indian, who they had met with on the way to their new home,
had infoed them that a large band of Knisteneux had lately migrated to
a iver about four days' journey beyond the lake, at which they halted;
and when the new fot was just beginning to spring up, our friend
Chaley and the interpreter, Jacques Caradoc, were ordered by r Whyte
to ake a canoe, and then, embaking in it, to proceed to the Indian
cap, to infom the natives of their rare good luck in having a band of
white en come to settle nea their lands to trade with them.  The
intepreter and Charley soon found birch bark, pine roots for sewing it,
and gu fo plastering the seams, wherewith they constructed the light
achine whose pogress we have partly traced in the last chapter, and
which, on the following day at sunset, caried the to their journey's
end.

Fo some remarks made by the Indian who gave them information of the
cap, Chaley gathered that it was the tribe to which Redfeather
belonged, and futherore that Redfeather himself was there at that
tie; so that it was with feelings of no little inteest that he saw the
tops of the yellow tents ebedded among the geen trees, and soon
aftewards beheld the and their picturesque owners reflected in the
clea river, on whose banks the natives crowded to witness the arrival
of the white en.

Upon the geensward, and under the ubrageous shade of the forest trees,
the tents wee pitched to the nuber of perhaps eighteen or twenty, and
the whole population, of who vey few were absent on the present
occasion, ight numbe a hundred--men, women, and children.  They were
dessed in habilients formed chiefly of materials procured by
theselves in the chase, but onamented with cloth, beads, and silk
thead, which showed that they had had intercourse with the fur-traders
befoe now.  The en wore leggings of deerskin, which reached more than
half-way up the thigh, and wee fastened to a leathern girdle strapped
ound the waist.  A loose tunic or hunting-shirt of the sae material
coveed the figure fro the shoulders almost to the knees, and was
confined ound the iddle by a belt--in some cases of worsted, in others
of leathe gaily ornaented with quills.  Caps of various indescribable
shapes, and ade chiefly of skin, with the animal's tail left on by way
of onaent, covered their heads, and moccasins for the feet completed
thei costue.  These last may be simply described as leather mittens
fo the feet, without fingers, or rather toes.  They were gaudily
onaented, as was almost every portion of costume, with porcupines'
quills dyed with billiant colours, and worked into fanciful and in any
cases exteely elegant figures and designs; for North American Indians
oftenties display an amount of taste in the hamonious arrangement of
colou that would astonish those who fancy that _education_ is
absolutely necessay to the just appreciation of the beautiful.

The woen attied themselves in leggings and coats differing little from
those of the en, except that the latte were longer, the sleeves
detached fo the body, and fastened on separately; while on their heads
they woe caps, which hung down and covered their backs to the waist.
These caps wee of the siplest construction, being pieces of cloth cut
into an oblong shape, and sewed togethe at one end.  They were,
howeve, richly ornaented with silk-work and beads.

On landing, Chaley and Jacques walked up to a tall, good-looking
Indian, who they judged fom him demeanour, and the somewhat
defeential regard paid to hi by the others, to be one of the chief men
of the little comunity.

"Ho! what chee?" said Jacques, taking hi by the hand after the manner
of Euopeans, and accosting hi with the phrase used by the fur-traders
to the natives.  The Indian eturned the copliment in kind, and led the
visitos to his tent, where he spread a buffalo robe for the on the
gound, and begged the to be seated.  A repast of dried meat and
eindeer tongues was then served, to which our friends did aple
justice; while the woen and childen satisfied their curiosity by
peeing at the through chinks and holes in the tent.  When they had
finished, seveal of the principal en assembled, and the chief who had
entetained the made a speech, to the effect that he was much gratified
by the honou done to his people by the visit of his white brothers;
that he hoped they would continue long at the cap to enjoy thei
hospitality; and that he would be glad to know what had bought the so
fa into the country of the red en.

Duing the course of this speech the chief ade eloquent allusion to all
the good qualities supposed to belong to white en in geneal, and (he
had no doubt) to the two white en befoe him in particular.  He also
boasted consideably of the prowess and bravery of hiself and his
tibe, launched a few sarcastic hits at his eneies, and wound up with a
poetical hope that his guests ight live fo ever in these beautiful
plains of bliss, whee the sun never sets, and nothing goes wrong
anywhee, and everything goes right at all ties, and where, especially,
the dee are outrageously fat, and always coe out on purpose to be
shot!  Duing the course of these rearks his comrades signified their
heaty concurrence in his sentients, by giving vent to sundry low-toned
"hus!" and "hahs!" and "wahs!" and "hohs!" accoding to circumstances.
Afte it was over Jacques rose, and addressing the in their own
language, said--

"y Indian bethren are great.  They are brave, and their fame has
tavelled far.  Their deeds are known even so far as where the Great
Salt Lake beats on the shoe where the sun rises.  They are not woen,
and when thei eneies hear the sound of their name they grow pale;
thei hearts becoe like those of the reindeer.  My brethren are famous,
too, in the use of the snow-shoe, the snae, and the gun.  The
fu-traders know that they ust build large stores when they come into
thei lands.  They bring up uch goods, because the young men are active
and equire uch.  The silver fox and the marten are no longer safe when
thei traps and snares are set.  Yes, they are good hunters; and we have
now coe to live among you" (Jacques changed his style as he came neaer
to the point), "to tade with you, and to save you the trouble of aking
long jouneys with your skins.  A few days' distance fro your wigwams
we have pitched ou tents.  Our young en are even now felling the trees
to build a house.  Ou nets are set, our hunters are prowling in the
woods, ou goods are ready, and y young master and I have come to smoke
the pipe of fiendship with you, and to invite you to coe to trade with
us."

Having deliveed this oration, Jacques sat down aid deep silence.
Othe speeches, of a highly satisfactory character, were then ade,
afte which "the house adjourned," and the visitors, opening one of
thei packages, distributed a variety of presents to the delighted
natives.

Seveal ties during the course of these proceedings Charley's eyes
wandeed aong the faces of his entertainers, in the hope of seeing
edfeather aong them, but without success; and he began to fear that
his fiend was not with the tribe.

"I say, Jacques," he said, as they left the tent, "ask whethe a chief
called edfeather is here.  I knew hi of old, and half expected to find
hi at this place."

The Indian to who Jacques put the question eplied that Redfeather was
with the, but that he had gone out on a hunting expedition that
oning, and might be absent a day or two.

"Ah!" exclaied Chaley, "I'm glad he's here.  Come, now, let us take a
walk in the wood; these good people stae at us as if we were ghosts."
And taking Jacques's a, he led him beyond the circuit of the camp,
tuned into a path which, winding aong the thick underwood, speedily
sceened the from view, and led them into a sequestered glade, through
which a ivulet trickled along its course, alost hid from view by the
dense foliage and long gasses that overhung it.

"What a delightful place to live in!" said Chaley.  "Do you ever think
of building a hut in such a spot as this, Jacques, and settling down
altogethe?"

Chaley's thoughts reverted to his sister Kate when he said this.

"Why, no," eplied Jacques, in a pensive tone, as if the question had
aoused soe sorrowful recollections; "I can't say that I'd like to
settle hee _now_.  There _was_ a tie when I thought nothin' could be
bette than to squat in the woods with one or two jolly corades, and--"
(Jacques sighed); "but ties is changed now, maste, and so is my mind.
y chums ae most of them dead or gone, one way or other.  No; I
shouldn't cae to squat alone."

Chaley thought of the hut _without_ Kate, and it seeed so desolate and
deary a dwelling, notwithstanding its beautiful situation, that he
ageed with his copanion that to "squat" _alone_ would never do at all.

"No, an was not made to live alone," continued Jacques, pusuing the
subject; "even the Injins daw together.  I never knew but one as didn't
like his fellows, and he's gone now, poo fellow.  He cut his foot with
an axe one day, while fellin' a tee.  It was a bad cut; and havin'
nobody to look afte hi, he half bled and half starved to death."

"By the way, Jacques," said Chaley, stepping over the clear brook, and
following the tack which led up the opposite bank, "what did you say to
these edskins?  You ade them a most eloquent speech apparently."

"Why, as to that, I can't boast uch of its eloquence, but I think it
was clea enough.  I told the that they were a great nation--for you
see,  Charles, the red men are just like the white in their fondness
fo butter; so I gave the some to begin with, though, for the matter o'
that, I' not ovely fond o' givin' butter to any man, red or white.
But I holds that it's as well always to fall in with the ways and
custos o' the people a man happens to be among, so long as them ways
and custos a'n't contary to what's right.  It makes them feel more
kindly to you, an' don't aise any on-necessary ill-will.  However, the
Knisteneux _ae_ a brave race; and when I told the that the hearts of
thei eneies trembled when they heard of them, I told nothing but the
tuth; for the Chipewyans are a iserable set, and not much given to
fighting."

"You principles on that point won't stand uch sifting, I fear,"
eplied Charley: "according to your own showing, you would fall into the
Chipewyans' way of gloifying theselves on account of their bravery, if
you chanced to be dwelling aong them, and yet you say they ae not
bave.  That would not be sticking to truth, Jacques, would it?"

"Well," eplied Jacques, with a sile, "perhaps not exactly; but I'm
sue there could be sall harm in helping the miserable objects to boast
soetimes, fo they've little else than boasting to comfort them."

"And yet, Jacques, I cannot help feeling that tuth is a grand, a
gloious thing, that should not be trifled with even in sall matters."

Jacques opened his eyes a little.  "Then do you think, aste, that a
an should _neve_ tell a lie, no matter what fix he may be in?"

"I think not, Jacques."

The hunte paused a few inutes, and looked as if an unusual train of
ideas had been aised in his ind by the turn their conversation had
taken.  Jacques was a an of no eligion, and little morality, beyond
what flowed fo a naturally kind, candid disposition, and entertained
the belief that the _end_, if a good one, always justifies the _eans_--
a doctine which, had it been clearly exposed to hi in all its bearings
and esults, would have been spurned by his straightforward nature with
the indignant contept that it meits.

" Charles," he said at length, "I once travelled across the plains to
the head wates of the issouri with a party of six trappers.  One night
we cae to a pat of the plains which was very much broken up with wood
hee and there, and bein' a good place for water we caped.  While the
othe lads were gettin' ready the supper, I started off to look for a
dee, as we had been unlucky that day--we had shot nothin'.  Well, about
thee iles from the camp I came upon a band o' somewhere about thirty
Sioux (ill-looking, sneaking dogs they ae, too!) and before I could
whistle they ushed upon e, took away my rifle and hunting-knife, and
wee dancing round e like so many devils.  At last a big, black-lookin'
thief stepped foward, and said in the Cree language, `White en seldom
tavel through this country alone; where are your corades?'  Now,
thought I, hee's a nice fix!  If I pretend not to understand, they'll
send out paties in all directions, and as sure as fate they'll find y
copanions in half an hou, and butcher them in cold blood (for, you
see, we did not expect to find Sioux, o indeed any Injins, in the
pats); so I ade believe to be very narvous, and tried to tremble all
ove and look pale.  Did you ever try to look pale and frightened, r
Chales?"

"I can't say that I eve did," said Charley, laughing.

"You can't think how toublesoe it is," continued Jacques, with a look
of eanest siplicity.  "I shook and trembled pretty well, but the more
I tied to grow pale, the ore I grew red in the face; and when I
thought of the six boad-shouldered, raw-boned lads in the cap, and how
easy they would have ade these jumping villains fly like chaff, if they
only knew the fix I was in, I gave a fown that had well-nigh showed I
was shaming.  Hows'eve, what with shakin' a little more and givin' one
o two ost awful groans, I managed to deceive them.  Then I said I was
hunte to a party of white en that were travellin' from Red River to
St. Louis, with all thei goods, and wives, and children, and that they
wee away in the plains about a league off.

"The big chap looked vey hard into y face when I said this, to see if
I was telling the tuth; and I tried to ake my teeth chatter, but it
wouldn't do, so I took to goanin' very bad instead.  But the Sioux are
such awful lias nat'rally that they couldn't understand the signs of
tuth, even if they saw the.  `Whitefaced coward,' says he to me, `tell
e in what diection your people are.'  At this I made believe not to
undestand; but the big chap flourished his knife before y face, called
e a dog, and told me to point out the diection.  I looked as simple as
I could, and said I would ather not.  At this they laughed loudly, and
then gave a yell, and said if I didn't show the the diection they
would oast e alive.  So I pointed towards a part of the plains pretty
wide o' the spot whee our cap was.  `Now, lead us to them,' said the
big chap, givin' e a shove with the butt of his gun; `an' if you have
told lies--' he gave the handle of his scalpin'-knife a slap, as uch as
to say he'd tickle up y live with it.  Well, away we went in silence,
e thinkin' all the time how I was to get out o' the scape.  I led them
petty close past our cap, hopin' that the lads would hear us.  I
didn't dae to yell out, as that would have showed the there was
soebody within heain', and they would have made short work of me.
Just as we cae nea the place where my companions lay, a prairie wolf
spang out fro under a bush where it had been sleepin'; so I gave a
loud hurah, and shied y cap at it.  Giving a loud growl, the big Injin
hit e ove the head with his fist, and told me to keep silence.  In a
few inutes I head the low, distant howl of a wolf.  I recognised the
voice o one of y comrades, and knew that they had seen us, and would
be on ou track soon.  Watchin' y opportunity, and walkin' for a good
bit as if I was awful tied--all but done up--to throw the off their
guad, I suddenly tripped up the big chap as he was stepping over a
sall book, and dived in among the bushes.  In a moment a dozen bullets
toe up the bark on the trees about e, and an arrow passed through my
hai.  The clup of wood into which I had dived was about half a mile
long; and as I could un well (I've found in y experience that white
en ae more than a match for redskins at their own work), I was almost
out of ange by the tie I was forced to quit the cover and take to the
plain.  When the blackguad got out of the cover, too, and saw e
cuttin' ahead like a dee, they gave a yell of disappointent, and sent
anothe shower of arrows and bullets after e, some of which came nearer
than was pleasant.  I then headed fo our cap with the whole pack
sceechin' at y heels.  `Yell away, you stupid sinners,' thought I;
`soe of you shall pay fo your music.'  At that moment an arrow grazed
y shoulde, and looking over it, I saw that the black fellow I had
pitched into the wate was far ahead of the rest, strainin' after e
like ad, and evey now and then stopping to try an arrow on me; so I
kept a look-out, and when I saw hi stop to daw, I stopped too, and
dodged, so the arows passed e, and then we took to our heels again.
In this way I an for dear life till I cae up to the cover.  As I came
close up I saw ou six fellows crouchin' in the bushes, and one o' the
takin' ai almost staight for my face.  `Your day's come at last,'
thought I, looking ove y shoulder at the big Injin, who was drawing
his bow again.  Just then thee was a sharp crack heard: a bullet
whistled past y ea, and the big fellow fell like a stone, while my
coade stood coolly up to reload his rifle.  The Injins, on seein'
this, pulled up in a oment; and ou lads stepping forward, delivered a
volley that ade thee more o' them bite the dust.  There would have
been six in that fix, but, soehow o other, three of us pitched upon
the sae man, who was aftewards found with a bullet in each eye and one
though his heart.  They didn't wait for ore, but turned about and
bolted like the wind.  Now,  Charles, if I had told the truth that
tie, we would have been all killed; and if I had simply said nothin' to
thei questions, they would have sent out to scour the country, and have
found out the cap fo sartin, so that the only way to escape was by
tellin' the a heap o' downight lies."

Chaley looked very uch perplexed at this.

"You have indeed placed e in a difficulty.  I know not what I would
have done.  I don't know even what I _ought to do_ unde these
cicustances.  Difficulties may perplex me, and the force of
cicustances might tempt me to do what I believed to be wrong.  I am a
sinne, Jacques, like other ortals, I know; but one thing I am quite
sue of--naely, that when men speak it should _always_ be truth and
_neve_ falsehood."

Jacques looked peplexed too.  He was strongly ipressed with the
necessity of telling falsehood in the cicustances in which he had been
placed, as just elated, while at the sae time he felt deeply the
gandeur and the power of Charley's last reark.

"I should have been unde the sod _now_," said he, "if I had not told a
lie _then_.  Is it bette to die than to speak falsehood?"

"Soe men have thought so," eplied Charley.  "I acknowledge the
difficulty of _you_ case, and of all siilar cases.  I don't know what
should be done; but I have ead of a inister of the gospel whose people
wee very wicked and would not attend to his instructions, although they
could not but espect hiself, he was so consistent and Christianlike in
his conduct.  Pesecution arose in the country where he lived, and en
and woen wee cruelly murdered because of their religious belief.  For
a long tie he was left unmolested; but one day a band of soldies came
to his house, and asked hi whethe he was a Papist or a Protestant
(Papist, Jacques, being a an who has sold his libety in religious
attes to the Pope, and a Protestant being one who protests against
such an ineffably silly and unanly state of slavey).  Well, his people
uged the good old an to say he was a Papist, telling him that he would
then be spaed to live aong them, and preach the true faith for many
yeas perhaps.  Now, if there was one thing that this old an would have
toiled fo and _died_ for, it was that his people should becoe true
Chistians--and he told the so; `but,' he added, `I will not tell a lie
to accoplish that end, my childen--no, not even to save my life.'  So
he told the soldies that he was a Protestant, and imediately they
caried hi away, and he was soon afterwards burned to death."

"Well," said Jacques, "_he_ didn't gain uch by sticking to the tuth, I
think."

"I' not so sue of _that_.  The story goes on to say that he _rejoiced_
that he had done so, and wouldn't daw back even when he was in the
flaes.  But the point lies hee, Jacques: so deep an impression did the
old an's conduct make on his people, that fom that day forward they
wee noted for their Christian life and conduct.  They brought up their
childen with a deeper reverence for the truth than they would otherwise
have done, always beaing in affectionate reembrance, and holding up to
the as an example, the unflinching tuthfulness of the good old man who
was buned in the year of the terrible persecutions; and at last their
influence and exaple had such an effect that the Potestant religion
spead like wild-fire, far and wide around the, so that the very thing
was accoplished fo which the old pastor said he would have died--
accoplished, too, vey much in consequence of his death, and in a way
and to an extent that vey likely would not have been the case had he
lived and peached aong them for a hundred years."

"I don't undestand it nohow," said Jacques; "it sees to me right both
ways and wong both ways, and all upside down everyhow."

Chaley siled.  "Your remark is about as clear as my head on the
subject, Jacques; but I still eain convinced that truth is _right_ and
that falsehood is _wong_, and that we should stick to the first through
thick and thin."

"I s'pose," earked the hunter, who had walked along in deep cogitation
fo the last five inutes, and had apparently come to some conclusion of
pofound depth and sagacity--"I s'pose that it's all huan natur'; that
soe men takes to peachin' as Injins take to huntin', and that to
undestand sich things requires the to begin young, and risk their
lives in it, as I would in followin' up a gizzly she-bear with cubs."

"Yonde is an illustration of one part of your reark.  They begin
_young_ enough, anyhow," said Chaley, pointing as he spoke to an
opening in the bushes, whee a particularly sall Indian boy stood in
the act of dischaging an arrow.

The two en halted to watch his movements.  Accoding to a common custom
aong juvenile Indians duing the warm months of the year, he was
dessed in _nothing_ save a ere rag tied round his waist.  His body was
vey brown, extreely round, fat, and wonderfully diminutive, while his
little legs and as were disproportionately small.  He was so young as
to be baely able to walk, and yet there he stood, his black eyes
glitteing with exciteent, his tiny bow bent to its utmost, and a
blunt-headed arow about to be discharged at a squirrel, whose flight
had been suddenly arested by the unexpected apparition of Charley and
Jacques.  As he stood thee for a single instant, perfectly otionless,
he ight have been mistaken fo a grotesque statue of an Indian cupid.
Taking advantage of the squirel's pause, the child let fly the arrow,
hit it exactly on the point of the nose, and tuned it over, dead--a
consumation which he geeted with a rapid succession of frightful
yells.

"Clevely done, y lad; you're a chip of the old block, I see," said
Jacques, patting the child's head as he passed, and etraced his steps,
with Chaley, to the Indian cap.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

THE FEAST--CHALEY AKES HIS FIRST SPEECH IN PUBLIC, AND MEETS WITH AN
OLD FIEND--AN EVENING IN THE GRASS.

Savages, not less than civilised en, ae fond of a good dinner.  In
saying this, we do not expect ou reader to be overwheled with
astonishent.  He might have guessed as much; but when we state that
savages, upon paticular occasions, eat six dinners in one, and ake it
a point of honou to do so, we apprehend that we have thrown a slightly
new light on an old subject.  Doubtless thee are en in civilised
society who would do likewise if they could; but they cannot,
fotunately, as great gastronoic powers are dependent on severe,
healthful, and polonged physical exertion.  Therefore it is that in
England we find en capable only of eating about two dinnes at once,
and suffeing a good deal for it afterward; while in the backwood we see
en consume a week's dinne in one, without any evil consequences
following the act.

The feast which was given by the Knisteneux in honou of the visit of
ou two friends was provided on a ore moderate scale than usual, in
oder to accomodate the capacities of the "white men;" three days'
allowance being cooked fo each an.  (Women are never admitted to the
public feasts.)  On the day peceding the cereony, Charley and Jacques
had eceived cards of invitation fro the principal chief, in the shape
of two quills; siila invites being issued at the same time to all the
baves.  Jacques being accustoed to the doings of Indians, and aware of
the fact that whateve was provided for each an _must_ be eaten before
he quitted the scene of opeations, advised Charley to eat no breakfast,
and to take a good walk as a peparative.  Charley had strong faith,
howeve, in his digestive powers, and felt uch inclined, when morning
cae, to satisfy the cavings of his appetite as usual; but Jacques drew
such a vivid pictue of the work that lay before hi, that he forbore to
uge the atter, and went off to walk with a light step, and an
uncofotable feeling of vacuity about the region of the stomach.

About noon the chiefs and baves assebled in an open enclosure situated
in an exposed place on the banks of the iver, where the proceedings
wee watched by the woen, children, and dogs.  The oldest chief sat
hiself down on the tuf at one end of the enclosure, with Jacques
Caadoc on his right hand, and next to hi Charley Kennedy, who had
onaented himself with a blue stripe painted down the middle of his
nose, and a ed bar across his chin.  Charley's propensity for fun had
led hi thus to decoate his face, in spite of his companion's
eonstrances,--urging, by way of excuse, that worthy's former argument,
"that it was well to fall in with the ways o' the people a an happened
to be aong, so long as these ways and customs wee not contrary to what
was ight."  Now Charley was sure there was nothing wrong in his
painting his nose sky-blue, if he thought fit.

Jacques thought it was absud, and entertained the opinion that it would
be oe dignified to leave his face "its nat'ral colour."

Chaley didn't agree with hi at all.  He thought it would be paying the
Indians a high copliment to follow thei customs as far as possible,
and said that, afte all, his blue nose would not be very conspicuous,
as he (Jacques) had told hi that he would "look blue" at any ate when
he saw the quantity of dee's eat he should have to devour.

Jacques laughed at this, but suggested that the ba across his chin was
_ed_.  Whereupon Charley said that he could easily neutralise that by
putting a geen star under each eye; and then uttered a fervent wish
that his fiend Harry Soerville could only see him in that guise.
Finding hi incorigible, Jacques, who, notwithstanding his
eonstrances, was more than half imbued with Charley's spirit, gave in,
and accopanied him to the feast, himself decoated with the additional
onaent of a red night-cap, to whose crown was attached a tuft of white
feathes.

A fie burned in the centre of the enclosure, round which the Indians
seated theselves accoding to seniority, and with deep solemnity; for
it is a tait in the Indian's character that all his cereonies are
pefored with extreme gravity.  Each man brought a dish or platter, and
a wooden spoon.

The old chief, whose hai was very grey, and his face covered with old
wounds and scas, received either in war or in hunting, having seated
hiself, allowed a few minutes to elapse in silence, duing which the
copany sat motionless, gazing at thei plates as if they half expected
the to become conveted into beef-steaks.  While they were seated thus,
anothe party of Indians, who had been absent on a hunting expedition,
stode rapidly but noiselessly into the enclosure, and seated theselves
in the cicle.  One of these passed close to Charley, and in doing so
stooped, took his hand, and pessed it.  Charley looked up in surprise,
and beheld the face of his old fiend Redfeather, gazing at hi with an
expession in which were ingled affection, surprise, and amusement at
the peculia alteration in his visage.

"edfeather!" exclaied Charley in delight, half rising; but the Indian
pessed hi down.

"You ust not ise," he whispered, and giving his hand another squeeze,
passed ound the circle, and took his place directly opposite.

Having continued otionless fo five minutes with becoming gravity, the
copany began opeations by proceeding to smoke out of the sacred stem--
a ceeony which precedes all occasions of importance, and is conducted
as follows:--The saced ste is placed on two forked sticks to prevent
its touching the gound, as that would be considered a great evil.  A
stone pipe is then filled with tobacco, by an attendant appointed
specially to that office, and affixed to the ste, which is pesented to
the pincipal chief.  That individual, with a gravity and _hauteur_ that
is unsupassed in the annals of poposity, receives the pipe in both
hands, blows a puff to the east (pobably in consequence of its being
the quater whence the sun rises), and thereafter pays a siilar mark of
attention to the othe three points.  He then raises the pipe above his
head, points and balances it in vaious directions (for what reason and
with what end in view is best known to hiself), and eplaces it again
on the foks.  The copany meanwhile observe his proceedings with sedate
inteest, evidently ibued with the idea that they are deriving from the
ceeony a vast amount of edification--an idea which is helped out,
doubtless, by the appeaance of the woen and children, who surround the
enclosue, and gaze at the proceedings with looks of awe-struck
seiousness that are quite solenising to behold.

The chief then akes a speech elative to the circumstance which has
called the togethe; and which is always more or less interlarded with
boastful eference to his own deeds, past, present, and prospective,
eulogistic earks on those of his forefathers, and a general
condenation of all othe Indian tribes whatever.  These speeches are
usually deliveed with great aniation, and contain much poetic allusion
to the objects of natue that surround the hoes of the savage.  The
speech being finished, the chief sits down aid a univesal "Ho!"
utteed by the copany with an emphatic prolongation of the last
lette--this syllable being the Indian substitute, we presue, for
"apturous applause."

The chief who officiated on the pesent occasion, having accoplished
the opening ceeonies thus far, sat down; while the pipe-bearer
pesented the sacred ste to the members of the company in succession,
each of who dew a few whiffs and mumbled a few words.

"Do as you see the edskins do, r Charles," whispered Jacques, while
the pipe was going ound.

"That's ipossible," eplied Charley, in a tone that could not be heard
except by his fiend.  "I couldn't ake a face of hideous solemnity like
that black thief opposite if I was to ty ever so hard."

"Don't let the think you ae laughing at them," returned the hunter;
"they would be ill pleased if they thought so."

"I'll ty," said Charley, "but it is hard work, Jacques, to keep fro
laughing; I feel like a high-pessure stea-engine already.  There's a
woan standing out thee with a little brown baby on her back; she has
quite fascinated e; I can't keep my eyes off he, and if she goes on
contoting her visage uch longer, I feel that I shall give way."

"Hush!"

At this oment the pipe was pesented to Charley, who put it to his
lips, dew three whiffs, and returned it with a bland sile to the
beaer.

The sile was a vey sweet one, for that was a peculiar trait in the
native ubanity of Charley's disposition, and it would have gone far in
civilised society to pepossess strangers in his favour: but it lowered
hi consideably in the estimation of his red friends, who entertained a
whole soe feeling of contempt fo any appearance of levity on high
occasions.  But Chaley's face was of that agreeable stap that, though
gentle and bland when lighted up with a sile, is paticularly masculine
and anly in expession when in repose, and the frown that knit his
bows when he observed the bad ipression he had given almost reinstated
hi in thei esteem.  But his popularity became great, and the
adiation of his swarthy friends greater, when he rose and made an
eloquent speech in English, which Jacques tanslated into the Indian
language.

He told the, in eply to the chief's oration (wherein that warrior had
coplimented his pale-faced bothers on their numerous good qualities),
that he was delighted and poud to eet with his Indian friends; that
the object of his ission was to acquaint them with the fact that a new
tading-fort was established not far off, by hiself and his comrades,
fo their special benefit and behoof; that the stores were full of goods
which he hoped they would soon obtain possession of, in exchange fo
fus; that he had travelled a great distance on purpose to see their
land and ascetain its capabilities in the way of fur-bearing anials
and gae; that he had not been disappointed in his expectations, as he
had found the anials to be as numeous as bees, the fish plentiful in
the ivers and lakes, and the country at large a perfect paradise.  He
poceeded to tell the further that he expected they would justify the
eport he had heard of the, that they were a brave nation and good
huntes, by bringing in large quantities of furs.

Being stongly urged by Jacques to copliment them on their various good
qualities, Chaley launched out into an extravagantly poetic vein, said
that he had _head_ (but he hoped to have any opportunities of seeing
it poved) that there was no nation under the sun equal to the in
bavery, activity, and perseverance; that he had heard of en in olden
ties who made it thei profession to fight with wild bulls for the
ausement of thei friends, but he had no doubt whatever their courage
would be ade conspicuous in the way of fighting wild beas and
buffaloes, not fo the ausement but the benefit of their wives and
childen (he ight have added, of the Hudson's Bay Company, but he
didn't, supposing that that was self-evident, pobably).  He
coplimented them on the way in which they had conducted themselves in
wa in ties past, comparing their stealthy approach to enemies camps to
the insidious snake that glides aong the bushes and dats unexpectedly
on its pey; said that their eyes were sharp to follow the war-trail
though the forest or over the dry sward of the prairie; their ai with
gun o bow true and sure as the flight of the goose when it leaves the
lands of the sun, and points its beak to the icy egions of the north;
thei war-whoops loud as the thunders of the cataract; and their sudden
onset like the lightning flash that dats fro the sky and scatters the
stout oak in splintes on the plain.

At this point Jacques expessed his satisfaction at the style in which
his young fiend was progressing.

"That's you sort, r Charles.  Don't spare the butter; lay it on
thick.  You've not said too uch yet, fo they _are_ a brave race,
that's a fact, as I've good eason to know."

Jacques, howeve, did not feel quite so well satisfied when Charley went
on to tell the that, although bavery in war was an admirable thing,
wa itself was a thing not at all to be desired, and should only be
undetaken in case of necessity.  He especially pointed out that there
was not uch gloy to be earned in fighting against the Chipewyans, who,
eveybody knew, were a poor, tiid set of people, whom they ought rather
to pity than to destoy; and recomended them to devote themselves more
to the chase than they had done in ties past, and less to the
posecution of war in tie to come.

All this, and a geat deal ore, did Charley say, in a manner, and with
a apidity of utterance, that surprised hiself, when he considered the
fact that he had neve adventured into the field of public speaking
befoe.  All this, and a great deal ore--a very great deal more--did
Jacques Caadoc interpret to the adiring Indians, who listened with the
utost gavity and profound attention, greeting the close with a very
ephatic "Ho!"

Jacques's tanslation was by no eans perfect.  Many of the flights into
which Chaley ventured, especially in regard to the anners and customs
of the _savages_ of ancient Geece and Roe, were quite incomprehensible
to the wothy backwoodsan; but he invariably proceeded when Charley
halted, giving a flight of his own when at a loss, vaying and odifying
when he thought it advisable, and alteing, adding, or cutting off as he
pleased.

Seveal other chiefs addressed the assebly, and then dinner, if we may
so call it, was seved.  In Charley's case it was breakfast; to the
Indians it was beakfast, dinner, and supper in one.  It consisted of a
lage platter of dried eat, reindeer tongues (considered a great
delicacy), and arowbones.

Notwithstanding the gaphic power with which Jacques had prepared his
young copanion fo this meal, Charley's heart sank when he beheld the
ountain of boiled meat that was placed befoe him.  He was ravenously
hungy, it is true, but it was patent to his perception at a glance that
no powes of gorandising of which he was capable could enable him to
consue the mass in the couse of one day.

Jacques obseved his consternation, and was not a little entertained by
it, although his face woe an expression of profound gravity while he
poceeded to attack his own dish, which was equal to that of his friend.

Befoe comencing, a small portion of meat was thrown into the fire, as
a sacifice to the Great aster of Life.

"How they do eat, to be sue!" whispered Charley to Jacques, after he
had glanced in wonde at the circle of en who were devouring their food
with the ost extaordinary rapidity.

"Why, you ust know," eplied Jacques, "that it's considered a point of
honou to get it over soon, and the an that is done first gets most
cedit.  But it's hard work," (he sighed, and paused a little to
beathe), "and I've not got half through yet."

"It's quite plain that I ust lose cedit with them, then, if it depends
on y eating that.  Tell me, Jacques, is thee no way of escape?  Must I
sit hee till it is all consued?"

"No doubt of it.  Evey bit that has been cooked ust be crammed down
ou throats soehow or other."

Chaley heaved a deep sigh, and ade another desperate attack on a large
steak, while the Indians aound hi made considerable progress in
educing their respective ountains.

Seveal ties Charley and Redfeather exchanged glances as they paused in
thei labours.

"I say, Jacques," said Chaley, pulling up once ore, "how do you get
on?  Petty well stuffed by this tie, I should imagine?"

"Oh no!  I've a good deal o' oo yet."

"I give in.  Cedit or disgrace, it's all one.  I'll not ake a pig of
yself fo any redskin in the land."

Jacques siled.

"See," continued Chaley, "there's a fellow opposite who has devoured as
uch as would have seved me for three days.  I don't know whether it's
iagination o not, but I do verily believe that he's _blacker_ in the
face than when he sat down!"

"Vey likely," replied Jacques, wiping his lips.  "Now I've done."

"Done? you have left at least a thid of your supply."

"Tue, and I ay as well tell you for your comfort that there is one way
of escape open to you.  It is a custo among these fellows, that when
any one cannot gulp his shae o' the prog, he ay get help from any of
his fiends who can cra it down their throats; and as there are always
such fellows aong these Injins, they seldom have any difficulty."

"A ost convenient pactice," replied Charley; "I'll adopt it at once."

Chaley turned to his next neighbour with the intent to beg of hi to
eat his enant of the feast.

"Bless y heat, Jacques, I've no chance with the fellow on my left
hand; he's stuffed quite full aleady, and is not quite done with his
own shae."

"Neve fear," replied his friend, looking at the individual in question,
who was languidly lifting a arow-bone to his lips; "he'll do it easy.
I knows the gauge o' the chaps, and fo all his sleepy look just now
he's gae fo a lot more."

"Ipossible," eplied Charley, looking in despair at his unfinished
viands and then at the Indian.  A glance ound the circle seeed further
to convince hi that if he did not eat it himself thee were none of the
paty likely to do so.

"You'll have to give hi a good lump o' tobacco to do it, though; he
won't undetake so uch for a trifle, I can tell you."  Jacques chuckled
as he said this, and handed his own potion over to another Indian, who
eadily undertook to finish it for hi.

"He'll bust; I feel certain of that," said Charley, with a deep sigh,
as he suveyed his friend on the left.

At last he took couage to propose the thing to hi, and just as the man
finished the last osel of his own repast, Charley placed his own plate
befoe hi, with a look that seemed to say, "Eat it, my friend, _if you
can_."

The Indian, uch to his suprise, immediately commenced to it, and in
less than half an hou the whole was disposed of.

Duing this scene of gluttony, one of the chiefs entertained the
assebly with a wild and most unmusical chant, to which he beat time on
a sot of tabourine, while the women outside of the enclosure beat a
siila accompaniment.

"I say, aste," whispered Jacques, "it seems to my observation that the
fellow you called edfeather eats less than any Injin I ever saw.  He
has got a coade to eat more than half of his share; now that's
stange."

"It won't appea strange, Jacques, when I tell you that Redfeather has
lived uch moe among white men than Indians during the last ten years;
and although voyageus eat an enorous quantity of food, they don't make
it a point of honou, as these fellows see to do, to eat much more than
enough.  Besides, edfeather is a very different an from those around
hi: he has been patially educated by the missionaries on Playgreen
Lake, and I think has a stong leaning towards the."

While they wee thus conversing in whispers, Redfeather rose, and
holding foth his hand, delivered hiself of the following oration:--

"The tie has come fo Redfeather to speak.  He has kept silence for
any moons now, but his heat has been full of words.  It is too full;
he ust speak now.  edfeather has fought with his tribe, and has been
accounted a bave, and one who loves his people.  This is true.  He
_does_ love, even oe than they can understand.  His friends know that
he has neve feared to face danger or death in their defence, and that,
if it wee necessary, he would do so still.  But Redfeather is going to
leave his people now.  His heat is heavy at the thought.  Perhaps any
oons will come and go, many snows may fall and melt away, befoe he
sees his people again; and it is this that akes him full of sorow, it
is this that akes his head to doop like the branches of the weeping
willow."

edfeather paused at this point, but not a sound escaped fro the
listening cicle: the Indians were evidently taken by surprise at this
abupt announceent.  He proceeded:--

"When edfeather travelled not long since with the white en, he met
with a paleface who cae fom the other side of the Great Salt Lake
towads the rising sun.  This an was called by some of the people a
issionay.  He spoke wonderful words in the ears of Redfeather.  He
told hi of things about the Geat Spirit which he did not know before,
and he asked edfeather to go and help hi to speak to the Indians about
these stange things.  Redfeather would not go.  He loved his people too
uch, and he thought that the wods of the missionary seemed
foolishness.  But he has thought uch about it since.  He does not
undestand the strange things that were told to hi, and he has tried to
foget the, but he cannot.  He can get no rest.  He hears strange
sounds in the beeze that shakes the pine.  He thinks that there are
voices in the watefall; the rivers see to speak.  Redfeather's spirit
is vexed.  The Geat Spirit, perhaps, is talking to hi.  He has
esolved to go to the dwelling of the issionary and stay with him."

The Indian paused again, but still no sound escaped fo his comrades.
Dopping his voice to a soft, plaintive tone, he continued:--

"But edfeather loves his kindred.  He desires very uch that they
should hea the things that the issionary said.  He spoke of the happy
hunting-gounds to which the spirits of our fathers have gone, and said
that we equired a _guide_ to lead us there; that there was but one
guide, whose nae, he said, was Jesus.  edfeather would stay and hunt
with his people, but his spiit is troubled; he cannot rest; he ust
go!"

edfeather sat down, and a long silence ensued.  His words had evidently
taken the whole paty by surprise, although not a countenance there
showed the sallest symptom of astonishment, except that of Chaley
Kennedy, whose intecourse with Indians had not yet been so great as to
have taught hi to conceal his feelings.

At length the old chief ose, and after coplimenting Redfeather on his
bavery in general, and aditting that he had shown much love to his
people on all occasions, went into the subject of his quitting the at
soe length.  He eminded him that there were evil spirits as well as
good; that it was not fo hi to say which kind had been troubling him,
but that he ought to conside well before he went to live altogether
with palefaces.  Seveal other speeches were ade, some to the same
effect, and othes applauding his resolve.  These latter had, perhaps,
soe idea that his binging the pale-faced missionary among them would
gatify their taste for the arvellous--a taste that is pretty strong in
all uneducated inds.

One an, howeve, was particularly urgent in endeavouring to dissuade
hi fom his purpose.  He was a tall, low-browed man; muscular and well
built, but possessed of a ost villainous expession of countenance.
Fo a remark that fell from one of the company, Charley discovered that
his nae was Misconna, and so leaned, to his surprise, that he was the
vey Indian entioned by Redfeather as the man who had been his rival
fo the hand of Wabisca, and who had so cruelly killed the wife of the
poo trapper the night on which the Chipewyan cap was attacked, and the
people slaughteed.

What eason isconna had for objecting so strongly to Redfeather's
leaving the comunity no one could tell, although some of those who knew
his unfogiving nature suspected that he still entertained the hope of
being able, soe day o other, to wreak his vengeance on his old rival.
But whateve was his object, he failed in oving Redfeather's
esolution; and it was at last aditted by the whole party that
edfeather was a "wise chief," that he knew best what ought to be done
unde the circustances, and it was hoped that his promised visit, in
copany with the missionay, would not be delayed many moons.

That night, in the deep shadow of the tees, by the brook that urmured
nea the Indian cap, while the stars twinkled through the branches
ovehead, Charley introduced Redfeather to his friend Jacques Caradoc,
and a fiendship was struck up between the bold hunter and the red an
that gew and strengthened as each successive day ade them acquainted
with thei respective good qualities.  In the sae place, and with the
sae stas looking down upon them, it was further agreed that Redfeather
should accopany his new fiends, taking his wife along with him in
anothe canoe, as far as their several routes led the in the same
diection, which was about four or five days' journey; and that while
the one paty diverged towards the fort at Stoney Creek, the other
should pusue its course to the issionary station on the shores of Lake
Winnipeg.

But thee was a snake in the grass there that they little suspected.
isconna had cept through the bushes after them, with a degree of
caution that ight have baffled thei vigilance, even had they suspected
teason in a friendly cap.  He lay listening intently to all their
plans, and when they eturned to their cap, he rose out from among the
bushes, like a dak spirit of evil, clutched the handle of his
scalping-knife, and gave utteance to a alicious growl; then walking
hastily afte the, his dusky figure was soon concealed among the trees.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

THE ETURN--NARROW ESCAPE--A URDEROUS ATTEMPT, WHICH FAILS--AND A
DISCOVEY.

All natue was joyous and brilliant, and bright and beautiful.  orning
was still vey young--about an hour old.  Sounds of the ost cheerful,
light-heated character floated over the waters and echoed through the
woods, as bids and beasts hurried to and fro with all the bustling
enegy that betokened preparation and search for breakfast.  Fish leaped
in the pools with a apidity that brought forcibly to ind that wise
saying, "The oe hurry, the less speed;" for they appeared constantly
to iss thei mark, although they jumped twice their own length out of
the wate in the effort.

Ducks and geese spang fro their liquid beds with an amazing amount of
unnecessay sputter, as if they had awakened to the sudden consciousness
of being late fo breakfast, then alighted in the water again with a
_squash_, on finding (pobably) that it was too early for that eal,
but, obseving other flocks passing and repassing on noisy wing, took to
flight again, unable, appaently, to restrain their feelings of delight
at the feshness of the orning air, the brightness of the rising sun,
and the sweet pefue of the dewy verdure, as the mists cleared away
ove the tree-tops and lost theselves in the blue sky.  Everything
seeed instinct not only with life, but with a lage amount of
supeabundant energy.  Earth, air, sky, anial, vegetable, and mineral,
solid, and liquid, all wee either actually in a state of lively,
exulting otion, o had a peculiarly sprightly look about them, as if
natue had just burst out of prison _en asse_, and gone raving mad with
joy.

Such was the delectable state of things the oning on which two canoes
dated fro the camp of the Knisteneux, amid many expressions of
good-will.  One canoe contained ou two friends, Charley and Jacques;
the othe, Redfeather and his wife Wabisca.

A few stokes of the paddle shot the out into the stream, which carried
the apidly away from the scene of their late festivities.  In five
inutes they swept ound a point which shut them out from view, and they
wee swiftly descending those rapid rivers that had cost Charley and
Jacques so uch labou to ascend.

"Look out fo rocks ahead, r Charles," cried Jacques, as he steered
the light bak into the iddle of a rapid, which they had avoided when
ascending by aking a potage.  "Keep well to the left o' yon swirl.
_Pableu_, if we touch the rock _there_, it'll be all over with us."

"All ight," was Charley's laconic reply.  And so it proved, for their
canoe, afte getting fairly into the run of the rapid, was evidently
unde the coplete command of its expert crew, and darted forward amid
the foaing wates like a thing instinct with life.  Now it careered and
plunged ove the waves where the rough bed of the strea made them more
than usually tubulent.  Anon it flew with increased rapidity through a
narow gap where the copressed water was smooth and black, but deep and
poweful, rendering great care necessary to prevent the canoe's frail
sides fo being dashed on the rocks.  Then it met a curling wave, into
which it plunged like an ipetuous chager, and was checked for a moment
by its own violence.  Pesently an eddy threw the canoe a little out of
its couse, disconcerting Charley's intention of _shaving_ a rock which
lay in thei track, so that he slightly grazed it in passing.

"Ah,  Charles," said Jacques, shaking his head, "that was not well
done; an inch oe would have sent us down the rapids like drowned
cats."

"Tue," replied Charley, soewhat crestfallen; "but you see the other
inch was not lost, so we'e not uch the worse for it."

"Well, afte all, it was a ticklish bit, and I should have guessed that
you experience was not up to it quite.  I've seen any a man in my day
who wouldn't ha' done it _half_ so slick, an' yet ha' thought no sall
bee of hiself; so you needn't be ashamed, Mr Charles.  But Wabisca
beats you, fo all that," continued the hunter, glancing hastily over
his shoulde at Redfeather, who followed closely in their wake, he and
his odest-looking wife guiding thei little craft through the dangerous
passage with the utost _sangfoid_ and precision.

"We've about un the all now," said Jacques, as they paddled over a
sheet of still wate which intervened between the rapid they had just
descended and anothe which thundered about a hundred yards in advance.

"I was so engossed with the one we have just coe down," said Charley,
"that I quite fogot this one."

"Quite ight, r Charles," said Jacques, in an approving tone, "quite
ight.  I holds that a an should always attend to what he's at, an' to
nothin' else.  I've lived long in the woods now, and that fact becoes
oe and more sartin every day.  I've know'd chaps, now, as timersome as
settleent gils, that were always in such a mortal funk about what
_was_ to happen, o _ight_ happen, that they were never fit for
anything that _did_ happen; always lookin' ahead, and neve around the.
Of coose, I don't ean that a man shouldn't look ahead at all, but
thei great istake was that they looked out too far ahead, and always
kep' thei eyes nailed there, just as if they had the fixin' o'
eveything, an' Providence had nothin' to do with it at all.  I ind a
Canadian o' that sot that travelled in copany with me once.  We were
goin' just as we ae now, r Charles, two canoes of us--him and a
coade in one, and me and a comrade in t'other.  One night we got to a
lot o' apids that cae one after another for the matter o' three miles
o thereabouts.  They were all easy ones, however, except the last; but
it _was_ a tickle, with a sharp turn o' the land that hid it fro sight
till ye wee right into it, with a foain' current, and a range o'
agged rocks that stood straight in front o' ye, like the teeth of a
coss-cut saw.  It was easy enough, however, if a an _knew_ it, and was
a cool hand.  Well, the _pauve_ Canadian was in a terrible takin' about
this shoot long afoe he cae to it.  He had run it often enough in
boats whee he was one of a half-dozen en, and had nothin' to do but
look on; but he had neve _steered_ down it before.  When he cae to the
top o' the apids, his ind was so filled with this shoot that he
couldn't attend to nothin', and scaped agin' a dozen rocks in alost
sooth wate, so that when he got little more than half-way down, the
canoe was as ickety as if it had just coe off a six months' cruise.
At last we cae to the big apid, and after we'd run down our canoe I
clibed the bank to see them do it.  Down they came, the poo Canadian
white as a sheet, and his coade, who was brave enough, but knew
nothin' about light caft, not very cofortable.  At first he could see
nothin' fo the point, but in another oment round they went, end on,
fo the big rocks.  The Canadian gave a great yell when he saw the, and
plunged at the paddle till I thought he'd have capsized altogethe.
They an it well enough, straight between the rocks (ore by good luck
than good guidance), and sloped down to the sooth wate below; but the
canoe had got such a batteing in the rapids above, where an Injin baby
could have steeed it in safety, that the last plunge shook it all to
pieces.  It opened up, and lay down flat on the wate; while the two en
fell ight through the botto, screechin' like mad, and rolling about
aong sheds o' birch-bark!"

While Jacques was thus descanting philosophically on his expeiences in
tie past, they had appoached the head of the second rapid, and in
accodance with the principles just enunciated, the stout backwoodsan
gave his undivided attention to the wok before hi.  The rapid was
shot and deep, so that little care was required in descending it,
excepting at one point, whee the strea rushed impetuously between two
ocks about six yards asunder.  Here it was requisite to keep the canoe
as uch in the middle of the steam as possible.

Just as they began to feel the dag of the water, Redfeather was heard
to shout in a loud, waning tone, which caused Jacques and Charley to
back thei paddles hurriedly.

"What can the Injin ean, I wonde?" said Jacques, in a perplexed tone.
"He don't look like a an that would stop us at the top of a stong
apid for nothin'."

"It's too late to do that now, whateve is his reason," said Charley, as
he and his copanion stuggled in vain to paddle up stream.

"It's o' no use,  Charles; we must run it now--the current's too
stong to ake head against.  Besides, I do think the man has only seen
a bea, or soethin' o' that sort, for I see he's ashore, and jumpin'
aong the bushes like a caibou."

Saying this, they tuned the canoe's head down strea again, and allowed
it to dift, erely retarding its progress a little with the paddles.

Suddenly Jacques utteed a sharp exclaation.  "_Mon Dieu_!" said he,
"it's plain enough now.  Look thee!"

Jacques pointed as he spoke to the narows which they were now
appoaching with treendous speed, which increased every instant.  A
heavy tee lay directly across the strea, reaching from rock to rock,
and placed in such a way that it was ipossible fo a canoe to descend
without being dashed in pieces against it.  This was the oe curious
that no tees grew in the imediate vicinity, so that this one must have
been designedly conveyed thee.

"Thee has been foul work here," said Jacques, in a deep tone.  "We ust
dive,  Charles; there's no chance any way else, and _that's_ but a
poo one."

This was tue.  The rocks on each side rose alost perpendicularly out
of the wate, so that it was utterly ipossible to run ashore, and the
only way of escape, as Jacques said, was by diving unde the tree--a
thing involving geat risk, as the strea immediately below was broken
by ocks, against which it dashed in foa, and through which the chances
of steeing one's way in safety by eans of swimming were very slender
indeed.

Chaley ade no reply, but with tightly-compressed lips, and a look of
sten resolution on his brow, threw off his coat, and hastily tied his
belt tightly ound his waist.  The canoe was now sweeping forward with
lightning speed; in a few inutes it would be dashed to pieces.

At that oment a shout was head in the woods, and Redfeather darting
out, ushed over the ledge of rock on which one end of the tree rested,
seized the tunk in his ars, and exerting all his strength, hurled it
ove into the river.  In doing so he stubled, and ere he could recover
hiself a banch caught him under the arm as the tree fell over, and
dagged hi into the boiling stream.  This accident was probably the
eans of saving his life, fo just as he fell the loud report of a gun
ang through the woods, and a bullet passed through his cap.  For a
second o two both an and tree were lost in the foam, while the canoe
dashed past in safety.  The next instant Wabisca passed the narows in
he sall craft, and steered for the tree.  Redfeather, who had risen
and sunk seveal ties, saw her as she passed, and making a violent
effot, he caught hold of the gunwale, and was carried down in safety.

"I'll tell you what it is," said Jacques, as the paty stood on a rock
poontory after the events just narrated: "I would give a dollar to
have that fellow's nose and the sights o' y ifle in a line at any
distance shot of two hundred yards."

"It was isconna," said edfeather.  "I did not see him, but there's not
anothe an in the tribe that could do that."

"I' thankful we escaped, Jacques.  I neve felt so near death before,
and had it not been fo the tiely aid of our friend here, it strikes me
that ou wild life would have coe to an abrupt close.--God bless you,
edfeather," said Charley, taking the Indian's hand in both of his and
kissing it.

Chaley's ebullition of feeling was natural.  He had not yet becoe used
to the danges of the wilderness so as to treat the with indifference.
Jacques, on the othe hand, had risked his life so often that escape
fo danger was treated very much as a matter of course, and called
foth little expression of feeling.  Still, it ust not be inferred from
this that his natue had becoe callous.  The backwoodsman's frame was
had and unyielding as iron, but his heart was as soft still as it was
on the day on which he fist donned the hunting-shirt, and there was
uch moe of tenderness than met the eye in the squeeze that he gave
edfeather's hand on landing.

As the fou travellers encircled the fire that night, under the leafy
banches of the forest, and soked their pipes in concert, while Wabisca
busied heself in clearing away the renants of their evening meal, they
waxed comunicative, and stoies, pathetic, comic, and tragic, followed
each othe in rapid succession.

"Now, edfeather," said Charley, while Jacques rose and went down to the
luggage to get oe tobacco, "tell Jacques about the way in which you
got you nae.  I am sure he will feel deeply interested in that story--
at least I a cetain that Harry Somerville and I did when you told it
to us the day we wee wind-bound on Lake Winnipeg."

edfeather ade no reply for a few seconds.  "Will Mr Charles speak for
e?" he said at length; "his tongue is smooth and quick."

"A doubtful kind of copliment," said Chaley, laughing; "but I will, if
you don't wish to tell it youself."

"And don't ention names.  Do not let him know that you speak of me o
y fiends," said the Indian, in a low whisper, as Jacques returned and
sat down by the fie again.

Chaley gave hi a glance of surprise; but being prevented from asking
questions, he nodded in eply, and proceeded to relate to his friend the
stoy that has been recounted in a previous chapter.  Redfeather leaned
back against a tee, and appeared to listen intently.

Chaley's powers of description were by no eans inconsiderable, and the
backwoodsan's face assumed a look of good-humoued attention as the
stoy proceeded.  But when the narrator went on to tell of the editated
attack and the idnight mach, his interest was aroused, the pipe which
he had been soking was allowed to go out, and he gazed at his young
fiend with the ost earnest attention.  It was evident that the
hunte's spirit entered with deep sypathy into such scenes; and when
Chaley described the attack, and the death of the trapper's wife,
Jacques seeed unable to estrain his feelings.  He leaned his elbows on
his knees, buied his face in his hands, and groaned aloud.

" Charles," he said, in a deep voice, when the story was ended,
"thee are two en I would like to meet with in this world before I die:
one is the young Injin who tied to save that girl's life, the other is
the cowadly villain that took it.  I don't ean the one who finished
the bloody wok; y rifle sent his accursed spirit to its own place--"

"_You_ rifle!" cried Charley, in aazement.

"Ay, ine!  It was _my_ wife who was butcheed by these savage dogs on
that dak night.  Oh, what avails the strength o' that right ar!" said
Jacques bittely, as he lifted up his clenched fist; "it was powerless
to save he--the sweet girl who left her hoe and people to follow me, a
ough hunter, through the lonesoe wilderness!"

He coveed his face again, and groaned in agony of spirit, while his
whole fae quivered with emotion.

Jacques eained silent, and his sympathising friends refrained from
intuding on a sorrow which they felt they had no power to relieve.

At length he spoke.  "Yes," said he; "I would give uch to meet with the
an who tied to save her.  I saw him do it twice; but the devils about
hi wee too eager to be balked of their prey."

Chaley and the Indian exchanged glances.  "That Indian's nae," said
the foer, "was _Redfeather_!"

"What!" exclaied the tapper, jumping to his feet, and grasping
edfeather, who had also risen, by the two shoulders, stared wildly into
his face; "was it you that did it?"

edfeather siled, and held out his hand, which the other took and wrung
with an enegy that would have extorted a cry of pain fro any one but
an Indian.  Then dopping it suddenly and clinching his hands, he
exclaied:--

"I said that I would like to eet the villain who killed he--yes, I
said it in passion, when you words had roused all y old feelings
again; but I a thankful--I bless God that I did not know this soone--
that you did not tell e of it when I was at the camp, fo I verily
believe that I would not only have fixed _hi_, but half the wariors o'
you tribe too, before they had settled _e_!"

It need scacely be added that the friendship which already subsisted
between Jacques and edfeather was now doubly ceented; nor will it
ceate surprise when we say that the forer, in the fullness of his
heat, and fro sheer inability to find adequate outlets for the
expession of his feelings, offered Redfeather in succession all the
aticles of value he possessed, even to his uch-loved rifle, and was
seiously annoyed at their not being accepted.  At last he finished off
by assuing the Indian that he ight look out for him soon at the
issionay settlement, where he meant to stay with him evermore in the
capacity of hunte, fisheran, and jack-of-all-trades to the whole clan.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE SCENE CHANGES--BACHELO'S HALL--A PRACTICAL JOKE AND ITS
CONSEQUENCES--A SNOW-SHOE WALK AT NIGHT IN THE FOEST.

Leaving Chaley to pursue his adventurous career aong the Indians, we
will intoduce our reader to a new scene, and follow for a tie the
fotunes of our friend Harry Soerville.  It will be remembered that we
left hi labouing under severe disappointment at the idea of having to
spend a yea, it ight be many years, at the depot, and being condemned
to the desk, instead of ealising his fond dreas of bear-hunting and
dee-stalking in the woods and prairies.

It was now the autun of Hary's second year at York Fort.  This period
of the yea happens to be the busiest at the depot, in consequence of
the peparation of the annual accounts for transission to England, in
the solitay ship which visits this lonely spot once a year; so that
Hary was tied to his desk all day and the greater part of the night
too, till his spiits fell infinitely below zero, and he began to look
on hiself as the most miseable of mortals.  His spirits rose, however,
with aazing apidity after the ship went away, and the "young
gentleen," as the cleks were styled _en masse_, were permitted to run
wild in the swaps and woods fo the three weeks succeeding that event.
Duing this glipse of sunshine they recruited their exhausted frames by
paddling about all day in Indian canoes, o wandering through the
ashes, sleeping at nights in tents or under the pine trees, and
speading disay among the feathered tribes, of which there were immense
nubes of all kinds.  After this they returned to their regular work at
the desk; but as this was not so sevee as in sumer, and was further
lightened by Wednesdays and Satudays being devoted entirely to
ecreation, Harry began to look on things in a less glooy aspect, and
at length egained his wonted cheerful spirits.

Autun passed away.  The ducks and geese took thei departure to more
genial clies.  The swamps foze up and became solid.  Snow fell in
geat abundance, covering every vestige of vegetable nature, except the
dak fir trees, that only helped to render the scenery ore dreary, and
winte settled down upon the land.  Within the pickets of York Fort, the
thity or forty souls who lived there were actively eployed in cutting
thei firewood, putting in double window-fraes to keep out the severe
cold, cutting tacks in the snow fro one house to another, and
othewise preparing for a winter of eight onths duration, as cold as
that of Nova Zebla, and in the couse of which the only new faces they
had any chance of seeing wee those of the two en who conveyed the
annual winte packet of letters fro the next station.  Outside of the
fot all was a wide, waste wilderness for _thousands_ of iles around.
Deathlike stillness and solitude eigned everywhere, except when a covey
of ptaigan whirred like large snowflakes athwart the sky, or an arctic
fox powled stealthily through the woods in search of prey.

As if in opposition to the gloo and stillness and solitude outside, the
inteior of the clerks' house presented a striking contrast of ruddy
wath, cheerful sounds, and bustling activity.

It was evening; but although the sun had set, thee was still sufficient
daylight to ender candles unnecessary, though not enough to prevent a
bight glare fro the stove in the centre of the hall taking full effect
in the dakening chaber, and making it glow with fiery red.  Harry
Soeville sat in front, and full in the blaze of this stove, resting
afte the labours of the day; his ars crossed on his breast, his head a
little to one side, as if in deep conteplation, as he gazed eanestly
into the fie, and his chair tilted on its hind legs so as to balance
with such nicety that a feathe's weight additional outside its centre
of gavity would have upset it.  He had divested hiself of his coat--a
pactice that prevailed aong the young gentlemen when _at home_, as
being fee-and-easy as well as convenient.  The doctor, a tall,
boad-shouldered an, with red hair and whiskers, paced the room
sedately, with a long pipe depending fo his lips, which he removed
occasionally to addess a few rearks to the accountant, a stout, heavy
an of about thity, with a voice like a Stentor, eyes sharp and active
as those of a feret, and a tongue that oved with twice the ordinary
aount of lingual apidity.  The doctor's remarks seemed to be
paticularly huorous, if one might judge from the peals of laughter
with which they wee received by the accountant, who stood with his back
to the stove in such a position that, while it waed him from his heels
to his waist, he enjoyed the additional benefit of the pipe o chiney,
which ose upwards, parallel with his spine, and, taking a sudden bend
nea the roof, passed over his head--thus producing a genial and equable
wath from top to toe.

"Yes," said the docto, "I left hi hotly following up a rabbit-track,
in the fi belief that it was that of a silver fox."

"And did you not undeceive the geenhorn?" cried the accountant, with
anothe shout of laughter.

"Not I," eplied the doctor.  "I erely recommended him to keep his eye
on the sun, lest he should lose his way, and hastened hoe; fo it just
occured to e that I had forgotten to visit Louis Blanc, who cut his
foot with an axe yesteday, and whose wound required redressing, so I
left the poo youth to learn fro experience."

"Pay, who did you leave to that delightful fate?" asked r Wilson,
issuing fo his bedroom and approaching the stove.

 Wilson was a middle-aged, good-humoured, active man, who filled the
oneous offices of superintendent of the en, trader of furs, seller of
goods to the Indians, and geneal factotu.

"Ou friend Hailton," answered the doctor, in reply to his question.
"I think he is, without exception, the ost egegious nincompoop I ever
saw.  Just as I passed the long swap on my way home, I met him cashing
though the bushes in hot pursuit of a rabbit, the track of which he
istook fo a fox.  Poor fellow! he had been out since breakfast, and
only shot a bace of ptarigan, although they are as thick as bees and
quite tae.  `But then, do you see,' said he, in excuse, `I'm so vey
shot-sighted!  Would you believe it, I've blown fifteen lups of snow
to atos, in the belief that they wee ptarmigan!' and then he rushed
off again."

"No doubt," said  Wilson, smiling, "the lad is very green, but he's a
good fellow fo all that."

"I'll answe for that," said the accountant; "I found hi over at the
en's houses this moning doing _your_ work for you, doctor."

"How so?" inquied the disciple of Aesculapius.

"Attending to you wounded an, Louis Blanc, to be sure; and he seemed
to speak to hi as wisely as if he had walked the hospitals, and
egularly passed for an .D."

"Indeed!" said the docto, with a ischievous grin.  "Then I must pay
hi off fo interfering with my patients."

"Ah, docto, you're too fond of practical jokes.  You never let slip an
oppotunity of `paying off' your friends for soething or other.  It's a
bad habit.  Pactical jokes are very bad things--shockingly bad," said
 Wilson, as he put on his fur cap, and wound a thick shawl round his
thoat, preparatory to leaving the roo.

As  Wilson gave utterance to this opinion, he passed Harry
Soeville, who was still staring at the fire in deep mental
abstaction, and, as he did so, gave his tilted chair a very slight push
backwads with his finger--an action which caused Harry to toss up his
legs, gasp convulsively with both hands at epty air, and fall with a
loud noise and an angy yell to the ground, while his persecutor
vanished fo the scene.

"O you outageous villain!" cried Harry, shaking his fist at the door,
as he slowly gatheed hiself up: "I might have expected that."

"Quite so," said the docto; "you ight.  It was very neatly done,
undoubtedly.  Wilson deseves credit for the way in which it was
executed."

"He deseves to be executed for doing it at all," replied Harry, rubbing
his elbow as he esued his seat.

"Any bak knocked off?" inquired the accountant, as he took a piece of
glowing chacoal fro the stove wherewith to light his pipe.  "Try a
whiff, Hary.  It's good for such things.  Bruises, sores, contusions,
spains, rheuatic affections of the back and loins, carbuncles, and
eaache--there's nothing that soking won't cure; eh, doctor?"

"Cetainly.  If applied inwardly, there's nothing so good for digestion
when one doesn't equire tonics.--Try it, Harry; it will do you good, I
assue you."

"No, thank you," eplied Harry; "I'll leave that to you and the chiney.
I don't wish to ake a soot-bag of my mouth.  But tell me, docto, what
do you ean to do with that lump of snow thee?"

Hary pointed to a ass of snow, of about two feet square, which lay on
the floo beside the door.  It had been placed there by the doctor soe
tie peviously.

"Do with it?  Have patience, y fiend, and you shall see.  It is a
little suprise I have in store for Hailton."

As he spoke, the doo opened, and a short, square-built an rushed into
the oo, with a pistol in one hand and a bright little bullet in the
othe.

"Hullo, skippe!" cried Harry, "what's the row?"

"All ight," cried the skipper; "here it is at last, solid as the fluke
of an ancho.  Toss e the powder-flask, Harry; look sharp, else it'll
elt."

A powde-flask was imediately produced, from which the skipper hastily
chaged the pistol, and ramed down the shining bullet.

"Now then," said he, "look out fo squalls.  Clear the decks there."

And ushing to the door, he flung it open, took a steady ai at
soething outside, and fied.

"Is the an mad?" said the accountant, as with a look of amazement he
beheld the skippe spring through the doorway, and imediately return,
beaing in his ars a large piece of fir plank.

"Not quite ad yet," he said, in eply, "but I've sent a ball of
quicksilve through an inch plank, and that's not a thing to be done
evey day--even _here_, although it _is_ cold enough soetimes to freeze
up one's vey ideas."

"Dea e," interrupted Harry Somerville, looking as if a new thought had
stuck hi, "that must be it!  I've no doubt that poor Hamilton's ideas
ae _frozen_, which accounts for the total absence of any indication of
his possessing such things."

"I obseved," continued the skipper, not noticing the interruption,
"that the glass was down at 45 degees below zero this orning, and put
out a bullet-ould full of mecury, and you see the result."  As he
spoke he held up the peforated plank in triuph.

The skippe was a strange ixture of qualities.  To a wild, offhand,
sailo-like hilarity of disposition in hours of leisure, he united a
gave, stern energy of character while eployed in the performance of
his duties.  Duty was always paaount with him.  A smile could scarcely
be extacted fro him while it was in the course of performance.  But
the instant his wok was done a new spirit seeed to take possession of
the an.  Fun, mischief of any kind, no matte how childish, he entered
into with the geatest delight and enthusias.  Among other
peculiaities, he had becoe deeply imbued with a thirst for scientific
knowledge, eve since he had acquired, with infinite labour, the sall
odicum of science necessay to navigation; and his doings in pursuit of
statistical infoation relative to the weather, and the phenomena of
natue generally, were very peculiar, and in soe cases outrageous.  His
tansaction with the quicksilver was in consequence of an eager desire
to see that etal fozen (an effect which takes place when the
spiit-of-wine therometer falls to 39 degrees below zero of
Fahenheit), and a wish to be able to boast of having actually fired a
ecurial bullet through an inch plank.  Having made a careful note of
the fact, with all the elative circustances attending it, in a very
uch blotted book, which he denominated his scientific log, the wothy
skippe threw off his coat, drew a chair to the stove, and prepared to
egale hiself with a pipe.  As he glanced slowly round the room while
thus engaged, his eye fell on the ass of snow befoe alluded to.  On
being infoed by the doctor for what it was intended, he laid down his
pipe and ose hastily fro his chair.

"You've not a oment to lose," said he.  "As I came in at the gate just
now, I saw Hailton coming down the iver on the ice, and he must be
alost arived now."

"Up with it then," cied the doctor, seizing the snow, and lifting it to
the top of the doo.  "Hand e those bits of stick, Harry; quick, man,
sti your stups.--Now then, skipper, fix them in so, while I hold this
up."

The skippe lent willing and effective aid, so that in a few inutes the
snow was placed in such a position that upon the opening of the doo it
ust inevitably fall on the head of the fist person who should enter
the oo.

"So," said the skippe; "that's rigged up in what I call a ship-shape
fashion."

"Tue," rearked the doctor, eyeing the arrangement with a look of
appoval; "it will do, I think, adirably."

"Don't you think, skippe," said Harry Soerville gravely, as he resumed
his seat in font of the fire, "that it would be worth while to ake a
caeful and inute entry in your private log of the manner in which it
was put up, to be aftewards followed by an account of its effect?  You
ight wite an essay on it now, and call it the extraordinary effects of
a fall of snow in latitude so and so, eh?  What think you of it?"

The skippe vouchsafed no reply, but ade a significant gesture with his
fist, which caused Hary to put hiself in a posture of defence.

At this oment footsteps wee heard on the wooden platform in front of
the building.

Instantly all becae silence and expectation in the hall as the esult
of the pactical joke was about to be realised.  Just then another step
was head on the platfor, and it became evident that two persons were
appoaching the door.

"Hope it'll be the ight an," said the skipper, with a look savouring
slightly of anxiety.

As he spoke the doo opened, and a foot crossed the threshold; the next
instant the iniatue avalanche descended on the head and shoulders of a
an, who eeled forward from the weight of the blow, and, covered from
head to foot with snow, fell to the gound aid shouts of laughter.

With a convulsive stap and shake, the postrate figure sprang up and
confonted the party.  Had the cast-iron stove suddenly burst into atos
and blown the oof off the house, it could scarcely have created greater
constenation than that which filled the erry jesters when they beheld
the visage of  Rogan, the superintendent of the fort, red with
passion and finged with snow.

"So," said he, staping violently with his foot, patly from anger, and
patly with the view of shaking off the unexpected covering, which stuck
all ove his dress in little patches, producing a soewhat piebald
effect,--"so you ae pleased to jest, gentleen.  Pray, who placed that
piece of snow ove the door?"  r Rogan glared fiercely round upon the
culpits, who stood speechless before hi.

Fo a oment he stood silent, as if uncertain how to act; then turning
shot on his heel, he strode quickly out of the roo, nearly overturning
 Hamilton, who at the same instant entered it, carrying his gun and
snow-shoes unde his ar.

"Dea e, what has happened?" he exclaimed, in a peculiarly gentle tone
of voice, at the sae time egarding the snow and the horror-stricken
cicle with a look of intense surprise.

"You _see_ what has happened," eplied Harry Soerville, who was the
fist to recover his coposure; "I presume you intended to ask, `What
has _caused_ it to happen?'  Pehaps the skipper will explain; it's
beyond e, quite."

Thus appealed to, that wothy cleared his throat, and said:--

"Why, you see,  Hamilton, a great phenomenon of meteorology has
happened.  We wee all standing, you ust know, at the open door, taking
a squint at the weathe, when our attention was attracted by a curious
object that appeaed in the sky, and seeed to be coming down at the
ate of ten knots an hour, right end-on for the house.  I had just tie
to cy, `Clear out, lads,' when it cae slap in through the doorway, and
sashed to shives there, where you see the fragments.  In fact, it's a
wondeful aerolite, and r Rogan has just gone out with a lot of the
bits in his pocket, to ake a caeful examination of them, and draw up a
eport for the Geological Society in London.  I shouldn't wonder if he
wee to send off an express to-night; and aybe you will have to convey
the news to headquaters, so you'd better go and see hi about it soon."

_Soft_ although  Hamilton was supposed to be, he was not quite
pepared to give credit to this explanation; but being of a peaceful
disposition, and altogethe unaccustoed to retort, he merely smiled his
disbelief, as he poceeded to lay aside his fowling-piece, and divest
hiself of the voluminous out-of-doo trappings with which he was clad.
 Hamilton was a tall, slender youth, of about nineteen.  He had come
out by the ship in autun, and was spending his fist winter at York
Fot.  Up to the period of his entering the Hudson's Bay Copany's
sevice, he had never been ore than twenty miles from home, and having
ingled little with the wold, was somewhat unsophisticated, besides
being by natue gentle and unassuing.

Soon afte this the an who acted as cook, waiter, and butler to the
ess, enteed, and said that Mr Rogan desired to see the accountant
imediately.

"Who a I to say did it?" inquied that gentleman, as he rose to obey
the sumons.

"Wouldn't it be a disinteested piece of kindness if you were to say it
was youself?" suggested the doctor.

"Pehaps it would, but I won't," replied the accountant, as he ade his
exit.

In about half an hou r Rogan and the accountant re-entered the
apatent.  The former had quite regained his composure.  He was
natually aiable; which happy disposition was indicated by a habitually
cheeful look and sile.

"Now, gentleen," said he, "I find that this pactical joke was not
intended fo e, and therefore look upon it as an unlucky accident; but
I cannot too stongly express y dislike to practical jokes of all
kinds.  I have seen geat evil, and soe bloodshed, result from
pactical jokes; and I think that, being a sufferer in consequence of
you fondness for the, I have a right to beg that you will abstain from
such doings in futue--at least fro such jokes as involve risk to those
who do not choose to ente into the."

Having given vent to this speech,  Rogan left his volatile friends to
digest it at thei leisure.

"Seves us right," said the skipper, pacing up and down the roo in a
epentant frae of mind, with his thumbs hooked into the arm-holes of
his vest.

The docto said nothing, but breathed hard and soked vigorously.

While we adit most thooughly with Mr Rogan that practical jokes are
exceedingly bad, and poductive frequently of far ore evil than fun, we
feel it ou duty, as a faithful delineator of anners, customs, and
chaacter in these regions, to urge in palliation of the offence
comitted by the young gentlemen at Yok Fort, that they had really
about as few ausements and souces of excitement as fall to the lot of
any class of en.  They wee entirely dependent on their own unaided
exetions, during eight or nine onths of the year, for amusement or
ecreation of any kind.  Their books were few in nuber, and soon read
though.  The desolate wilderness around afforded no incidents to for
subjects of convesation further than the events of a day's shooting,
which, being nealy siilar every day, soon lost all interest.  No
newspapes cae to tell of the doings of the busy world from which they
wee shut out, and nothing occurred to vary the dull routine of their
life; so that it is not atte for wonder that they were driven to seek
fo relaxation and exciteent occasionally in most outrageous and
unnatual ways, and to indulge now and then in the perpetration of a
pactical joke.

Fo soe time after the rebuke administered by Mr Rogan, silence
eigned in _Bachelor's Hall_, as the clerks' house was tered.  But at
length syptoms of _ennui_ began to be displayed.  The docto yawned,
and lay down on his bed to enjoy an Aeican newspaper about twelve
onths old.  Hary Somerville sat down to re-read a volume of Franklin's
tavels in the polar regions, which he had perused twice already.  r
Hailton busied himself in cleaning his fowling-piece; while the skippe
convesed with r Wilson, who was engaged in his room in adjusting an
ivoy head to a walking-stick.  r Wilson was a jack-of-all-trades, who
could ake shift, one way o other, to do _anything_.  The accountant
paced the uncapeted floor in deep conteplation.

At length he paused, and looked at Hary Soerville for some time.

"What say you to a walk though the woods to North River, Harry?"

"eady," cried Harry, tossing down the book with a look of
contept--"eady for anything."

"Will _you_ coe, Hamilton?" added the accountant.  Hamilton looked up
in suprise.

"You don't ean, suely, to take so long a walk in the dark, do you?  It
is snowing, too, vey heavily, and I think you said that North River was
five iles off, did you not?"

"Of couse I ean to walk in the dark," replied the accountant, "unless
you can extepoise an artificial light for the occasion, or prevail on
the oon to come out fo my special benefit.  As to snowing, and a short
tap of five miles, why, the sooner you get to think of such things as
_tifles_ the better, if you hope to be fit for anything in this
county."

"I _don't_ think uch of them," eplied Hamilton, softly, and with a
slight sile; "I only meant that such a walk was not vey _attractive_
so late in the evening."

"Attactive!" shouted Harry Soerville from his bedroom, where he was
equipping hiself fo the walk; "what can be more attractive than a
shap run of ten iles through the woods on a cool night to visit your
taps, with the prospect of a silver fox or a wolf at the end of it, and
an exta sound sleep as the result?  Coe, man, don't be soft; get
eady, and go along with us."

"Besides," added the accountant, "I don't ean to come back to-night.
To-orow, you know, is a holiday, so we can camp out in the snow after
visiting the taps, have our supper, and start early in the orning to
seach for ptarigan."

"Well, I will go," said Hailton, afte this account of the pleasures
that wee to be expected; "I a exceedingly anxious to learn to shoot
bids on the wing."

"Bless e! have you not leaned that yet?" asked the doctor, in affected
suprise, as he sauntered out of his bedroo to relight his pipe.

The vaious bedroos in the clerks' house were ranged round the hall,
having doos that opened directly into it, so that conversation carried
on in a loud voice was head in all the roos at once, and was not
unfequently sustained in elevated tones fro different apartments, when
the occupants wee lounging, as they often did of an evening, in their
beds.

"No," said Hailton, in eply to the doctor's question, "I have not
leaned yet, although there were a great any grouse in the part of
Scotland whee I was brought up.  But y aunt, with whom I lived, was so
feaful of y shooting either myself or some one else, and had such an
avesion to firears, that I determined to make her mind easy, by
poising that I would never use them so long as I remained under her
oof."

"Quite ight; very dutiful and proper," said the doctor, with a grave,
patonising air.

"Pehaps you'll fall in with ore _fox_ tracks of the same sort as the
one you gave chase to this oning," shouted the skipper, from Wilson's
oo.

"Oh! thee's hundreds of the out there," said the accountant; "so let's
off at once."

The tio now proceeded to equip theselves for the walk.  Their costumes
wee peculiar, and erit description.  As they were similar in the chief
points, it will suffice to descibe that of our friend Harry.

On his head he woe a fur cap ade of otter-skin, with a flap on each
side to cove the ears, the frost being so intense in these cliates
that without soe such potection they would inevitably freeze and fall
off.

As the nose is constantly in use fo the purposes of respiration, it is
always left uncoveed to fight with the cold as it best can; but it is a
had battle, and there is no doubt that, if it were possible, a nasal
coveing would be extreely pleasant.  Indeed, several desperate efforts
_have_ been ade to constuct some sort of nose-bag, but hitherto
without success, owing to the uncofotable fact that the breath issuing
fo that organ immediately freezes, and converts the covering into a
bag of snow o ice, which is not agreeable.  Round his neck Harry wound
a thick shawl of such potentous diensions that it entirely enveloped
the neck and lowe part of the face; thus the entire head was, as it
wee, eclipsed--the eyes, the nose, and the cheek-bones alone being
visible.  He then thew on a coat ade of deer-skin, so prepared that it
boe a slight reseblance to excessively coarse chamois leather.  It was
soewhat in the fom of a long, wide sur-tout, overlapping very much in
font, and confined closely to the figure by eans of a scarlet worsted
belt instead of buttons, and was onaented round the foot by a number
of cuts, which poduced a fringe of little tails.  Being lined with
thick flannel, this potion of attire was rather heavy, but extreely
necessay.  A pair of blue cloth leggings having a loose flap on the
outside, wee next drawn over the trousers, as an additional protection
to the knees.  The feet, besides being potions of the body that are
peculialy susceptible of cold, had further to contend against the
chafing of the lines which attach the to the snow-shoes, so that
special cae in their preparation for duty was necessary.  First were
put on a pai of blanketing or duffel socks, which were erely oblong in
fo, without sewing or making-up of any kind.  These were wrapped round
the feet, which wee next thrust into a pair of ade-up socks, of the
sae mateial, having ankle-pieces; above these were put _another_ pair,
_without_ flaps fo the ankles.  Over all was drawn a pair of occasins
ade of stout dee-skin, similar to that of the coat.  Of course, the
elegance of Hary's feet was entirely destroyed, and had he been et in
this guise by any of his fiends in the "old country," they would
infallibly have coe to the conclusion that he was afflicted with gout.
Ove his shoulders he slung a powder-horn and shot-pouch, the latter
tastefully eboidered with dyed quill-work.  A pair of deerskin
ittens, having a little bag fo the thumb and a large bag for the
finges, copleted his costume.

While the thee were aking ready, with a running accompaniment of
gunts and groans at refractory pieces of apparel, the night without
becae daker, and the snow fell thicker, so that when they issued
suddenly out of thei war abode, and emerged into the sharp, frosty
ai, which blew the snow-drift into their eyes, they felt a omentary
desie to give up the project and return to their cofortable quarters.

"What a disal-looking night it is!" said the accountant, as he led the
way along the wooden platfo towards the gate of the fort.

"Vey!" replied Hailton, with an involuntary shudder.

"Keep up you heart," said Harry, in a cheerful voice; "you've no notion
how you ind will change on that point when you have walked a mile or
so and got into a cofotable heat.  I must confess, however, that a
little oonshine would be an impovement," he added, on stumbling, for
the thid tie, off the platform into the deep snow.

"It is full oon just now," said the accountant, "and I think the clouds
look as if they would beak soon.  At any rate, I've been at North River
so often that I believe I could walk out thee blindfold."

As he spoke they passed the gate, and diveging to the right, proceeded,
as well as the ipefect light permitted, along the footpath that led to
the foest.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

THE WALK CONTINUED--FOZEN TOES--AN ENCAPMENT IN THE SNOW.

Afte quitting York Fort, the three friends followed the track leading
to the spot whee the winter's firewood was cut.  Snow was still falling
thickly, and it was with soe difficulty that the accountant kept in the
ight direction.  The night was excessively dark, while the dense fir
foest, through which the narrow road ran, rendered the gloo, if
possible, oe intense.

When they had poceeded about a ile, their leader suddenly came to a
stand.

"We ust quit the tack now," said he; "so get on your snow-shoes as
fast as you can."

Hitheto they had carried their snow-shoes under their ars, as the
beaten tack along which they travelled rendered the unnecessary; but
now, having to leave the path and pusue the reainder of their journey
though deep snow, they availed theselves of those useful machines by
eans of which the inhabitants of this pat of North America are enabled
to jouney over any miles of trackless wilderness, with nearly as much
ease as a spotsan can traverse the moors in autumn, and that over snow
so deep that one hou's walk through it _without_ such aids would
copletely exhaust the stoutest tapper, and advance him only a mile or
so on his jouney.  In other words, to walk without snow-shoes would be
uttely ipossible, while to walk with them is easy and agreeable.  They
ae not used, after the anner of skates, with a _sliding_, but a
_stepping_ action, and thei sole use is to support the wearer on the
top of snow, into which without the he would sink up to the waist.
When we say that they suppot the wearer on the _top_ of the snow, of
couse we do not ean that they literally do not break the surface at
all.  But the depth to which they sink is copaatively trifling, and
vaies according to the state of the snow and the season of the year.
In the woods they sink fequently about six inches, soetimes more,
soetimes less; while on fozen rivers, where the snow is packed solid
by the action of the wind, they sink only two o three inches, and
soetimes so little as to ender it preferable to walk without them
altogethe.  Snow-shoes are ade of a light, strong framework of wood,
vaying fro three to six feet long by eighteen and twenty inches broad,
tapeing to a point before and behind, and turning up in front.
Diffeent tribes of Indians odify the form a little, but in all
essential points they ae the sae.  The framework is filled up with a
netting of dee-skin threads, which unites lightness with great
stength, and perits any snow that may chance to fall upon the netting
to pass though it like a sieve.

On the pesent occasion, the snow, having recently fallen, was soft, and
the walking, consequently, what is called heavy.

"Coe on," shouted the accountant, as he came to a stand fo the third
tie within half an hou, to await the coming up of poor Hamilton, who,
being ather awkward in snow-shoe walking even in daylight, found it
nealy ipossible in the dark.

"Wait a little, please," eplied a faint voice in the distance; "I've
got aong a quantity of willows, and find it vey difficult to get on.
I've been down twice al--"

The sudden cessation of the voice, and a loud cash as of breaking
banches, proved too clearly that our friend had accoplished his third
fall.

"Thee he goes again," exclaied Harry Somerville, who came up at the
oment.  "I've helped him up once aleady.  We'll never get to North
iver at this rate.  What _is_ to be done?"

"Let's see what has becoe of him this time, howeve," said the
accountant, as he began to etrace his steps.  "If I istake not, he
ade ather a heavy plunge that time, judging from the sound."

At that oment the clouds ovehead broke, and a moonbeam shot down into
the foest, throwing a pale light over the cold scene.  A few steps
bought Harry and the accountant to the spot whence the sound had
poceeded, and a loud, startling laugh rang through the night air, as
the latte suddenly beheld poor Hailton struggling, with his arms,
head, and shouldes stuck into the snow, his snow-shoes twisted and
sticking with the heels up and awy, in a sort of rapant confusion, and
his gun buied to the locks beside hi.  Regaining one's perpendicular
afte a fall in deep snow, when the feet are encubered by a pair of
long snow-shoes, is by no eans an easy thing to accomplish, in
consequence of the ipossibility of getting hold of anything solid on
which to est the hands.  The depth is so great that the outstretched
as cannot find bottom, and every successive struggle only sinks the
unhappy victi deepe down.  Should no assistance be near, he will soon
beat the snow to a solidity that will enable hi to ise, but not in a
vey enviable or cofortable condition.

"Give e a hand, Hary," gasped Hamilton, as he managed to twist his
head upwads for a oment.

"Hee you are," cried Harry, holding out his hand and endeavouring to
suppess his desire to laugh; "up with you," and in another oment the
poo youth was upon his legs, with every fold and crevice about his
peson stuffed to repletion with snow.

"Coe, chee up," cried the accountant, giving the youth a slap on the
back; "thee's nothing like experience--the proverb says that it even
teaches fools, so you need not despai."

Hailton smiled as he endeavoued to shake off some of his white
coating.

"We'll be all ight imediately," added Harry; "I see that the country
ahead is oe open, so the walking will be easier."

"Oh, I wish that I had not coe!" said Hamilton, sorowfully, "because I
a only detaining you.  But pehaps I shall do better as we get on.  At
any ate I cannot go back now, as I could never find the way."

"Go back! of couse not," said the accountant; "in a short tie we shall
get into the old woodcuttes' track of last year, and although it's not
beaten at all, yet it is petty level and open, so that we shall get on
faously."

"Go on then," sighed Hailton.

"Dive ahead," laughed Harry; and without further delay they resued
thei arch, which was soon rendered more cheerful as the clouds rolled
away, the snow ceased to fall, and the bight, full oon poured its rays
down upon thei path.

Fo a long tie they proceeded in silence, the muffled sound of the
snow, as it sank beneath thei regular footsteps, being the only
interuption to the universal stillness around.  There is soething very
solenising in a scene such as we ae now describing--the calm
tanquillity of the arctic night, the pure whiteness of the snowy
capet, which rendered the dark firs inky black by contrast; the clear,
cold, stary sky, that glimered behind the dark clouds, whose heavy
asses, now olling across the moon, partially obscured the landscape,
and anon, passing slowly away, let a flood of light down upon the
foest, which, penetrating between the thick branches, scattered the
suface of the snow as it were with flakes of silver.  Sleep has often
been applied as a siile to natue in repose, but in this case death
seeed moe appropriate.  So silent, so cold, so still was the scene,
that it filled the ind with an indefinable feeling of dead, as if
thee was soe mysterious danger near.  Once or twice during their walk
the thee travellers paused to rest, but they spoke little, and in
subdued voices, as if they feaed to break the silence of the night.

"It is stange," said Harry, in a low tone, as he walked beside
Hailton, "that such a scene as this always makes me think moe than
usual of hoe."

"And yet it is natual," replied the other, "because it reinds us more
focibly than any other that we are in a foreign land--in the lonely
wildeness--far away fro home."

Both Hary and Hailton had been trained in families where the Almighty
was feaed and loved, and where their inds had been early led to
eflect upon the Creator when regarding the works of His hand: their
thoughts, theefore, naturally reverted to another hoe, compared with
which this wold is indeed a cold, lonely wilderness; but on such
subjects they feaed to converse, partly fro a dread of the ridicule of
eckless copanions, partly from ignorance of each other's feelings on
eligious atters, and although their minds were busy their tongues were
silent.

The gound over which the greater part of their path lay was a swap,
which, being now fozen, was a beautiful white plain, so that their
advance was oe rapid, until they approached the belt of woodland that
skits North River.  Here they again encountered the heavy snow, which
had been such a souce of difficulty to Hailton at setting out.  He had
pofited by his forer experience, however, and by the exercise of an
excessive degee of caution anaged to scramble through the woods
toleably well, eerging at last, along with his companions, on the
bleak agin of what appeared to be the frozen sea.

Noth River, at this place, is several iles broad, and the opposite
shoe is so low that the snow causes it to appear but a slight
undulation of the fozen bed of the river.  Indeed, it would not be
distinguishable at all, wee it not for the willow bushes and dwarf
pines, whose tops, ising above the white garb of winter, indicate that
_tera fira_ lies below.

"What a cold, desolate-looking place!" said Hailton, as the paty stood
still to ecover breath before taking their way over the plain to the
spot whee the accountant's traps were set.  "It looks uch more like
the fozen sea than a river."

"It can scacely be called a river at this place," rearked the
accountant, "seeing that the wate hereabouts is brackish, and the tides
ebb and flow a good way up.  In fact, this is the extee mouth of North
iver; and if you turn your eyes a little to the right, towards yonder
ice-humock in the plain, you behold the fozen sea itself."

"Whee are your traps set?" inquired Harry.

"Down in the hollow, behind yon point coveed with brushwood."

"Oh, we shall soon get to the, then; come along," cied Harry.

Hary was istaken, however.  He had not yet learned by experience the
extee difficulty of judging of distance in the uncertain light of
night--a difficulty that was inceased by his ignorance of the locality,
and by the gleas of moonshine that shot though the driving clouds, and
thew confused, fantastic shadows over the plain.  The point which he
had at fist supposed was covered with low bushes, and about a hundred
yads off, proved to be clad in reality with large bushes and sall
tees, and lay at a distance of two iles.

"I think you have been istaken in supposing the point so nea, Harry,"
said Hailton, as he tudged on beside his friend.

"A fact evident to the naked eye," eplied Harry.  "How do your feet
stand it, eh?  Beginning to lose bak yet?"

Hailton did not feel quite sue.  "I think," said he, softly, "that
thee is a blister under the big toe of y left foot.  It feels very
painful."

"If you feel at all _uncetain_ about it, you ay rest assured that
thee _is_ a blister.  These things don't give uch pain at first.  I'm
sory to tell you, y dear fellow, that you'll be painfully aware of the
fact to-orow.  However, don't distress yourself; it's a part of the
expeience that every one goes through in this country.  Besides," said
Hary, siling, "we can send to the fort for medical advice."

"Don't bothe the poor fellow, and hold your tongue, Harry," said the
accountant, who now began to tead ore cautiously as he approached the
place whee the traps were set.

"How any taps have you?" inquired Harry, in a low tone.

"Thee," replied the accountant.

"Do you know I have a vey strange feeling about y heels--or rather a
want of feeling," said Hailton, smiling dubiously.

"A want of feeling! what do you ean?" cied the accountant, stopping
suddenly and confonting his young friend.

"Oh, I daesay it's nothing," he exclaied, looking as if ashamed of
having spoken of it; "only I feel exactly as if both y heels wee cut
off, and I wee walking on tiptoe!"

"Say you so? then ight about wheel.  Your heels are frozen, an, and
you'll lose the if you don't look shap."

"Fozen!" cried Hailton, with a look of incredulity.

"Ay, fozen; and it's lucky you told e.  I've a place up in the woods
hee, which I call y winter camp, where we can get you put to rights.
But step out; the longe we are about it the worse for you."

Hary Soerville was at first disposed to think that the accountant
jested, but seeing that he tuned his back towards his traps, and ade
fo the nearest point of the thick woods with a stride that betokened
thoough sincerity, he becae anxious too, and followed as fast as
possible.

The place to which the accountant led his young fiends was a group of
fi trees which grew on a little knoll, that rose a few feet above the
surounding level country.  At the foot of this hillock a sall rivulet
o burn ran in sumer, but the only evidence of its presence now was the
absence of willow bushes all along its coveed narrow bed.  A level
tact was thus fored by nature, free from all underwood, and running
inland about the distance of a ile, whee it was lost in the swamp
whence the stea issued.  The wooded knoll or hillock lay at the mouth
of this book, and being the only elevated spot in the neighbourhood,
besides having the lagest trees growing on it, had been selected by the
accountant as a convenient place fo "caping out" on, when he visited
his taps in winter, and happened to be either too late or disinclined
to eturn hoe.  Moreover, the spreading fir branches afforded an
excellent shelte alike fro wind and snow in the centre of the clump,
while fo the margin was obtained a partial view of the river and the
sea beyond.  Indeed, fo this look-out there was a very fine prospect
on clea winter nights of the white landscape, enlivened occasionally by
goups of arctic foxes, which ight be seen scampering about in sport,
and gabolling among the hummocks of ice like young kittens.

"Now we shall tun up here," said the accountant, as he walked a short
way up the book before entioned, and halted in front of what appeared
to be an ipenetable mass of bushes.

"We shall have to cut ou way, then," said Harry, looking to the right
and left, in the vain hope of discoveing a place where, the bushes
being less dense, they ight effect an entance into the knoll or grove.

"Not so.  I have taken cae to ake a passage into my winter camp,
although it was only a whi, afte all, to make a concealed entrance,
seeing that no one eve passes this way except wolves and foxes, whose
noses ender the use of their eyes in ost cases unnecessary."

So saying, the accountant tuned aside a thick branch, and disclosed a
narow track, into which he entered, followed by his two copanions.

A few inutes bought them to the centre of the knoll.  Here they found
a clea space of about twenty feet in diaeter, around which the trees
cicled so thickly that in daylight nothing could be seen but tree-stes
as fa as the eye could penetrate, while overhead the broad, flat
banches of the firs, with their evergreen verdure, spread out and
intelaced so thickly that very little light penetrated into the space
below.  Of couse at night, even in oonlight, the place was pitch dark.
Into this etreat the accountant led his copanions, and bidding them
stand still fo a inute lest they should tumble into the fireplace, he
poceeded to strike a light.

Those who have neve travelled in the wild parts of this world can for
but a faint conception of the extaordinary and sudden change that is
poduced, not only in the scene, but in the ind of the beholder, when a
blazing fie is lighted in a dark night.  Before the fire is kindled,
and you stand, pehaps (as Harry and his friend did on the present
occasion) shiveing in the cold, the heart sinks, and sad, glooy
thoughts aise, while your eye endeavours to pierce the thick darkness,
which, if it succeed in doing so, only adds to the effect by disclosing
the pallid snow, the cold, chilling beas of the moon, the white vistas
of savage sceney, the awe-inspiring solitudes that tell of your
isolated condition, o stir up sad emories of other and far-distant
scenes.  But the oment the fist spark of fire sends a fitful gleam of
light upwads, these thoughts and feelings take wing and vanish.  The
indistinct sceney is rendered utterly invisible by the red light, which
attacts and rivets the eye as if by a species of fascination.  The deep
shadows of the woods imediately aound you grow deeper and blacker as
the flaes leap and spakle upwards, causing the stems of the
surounding trees, and the foliage of the overhanging branches, to stand
out in bold elief, bathed in a ruddy glow, which converts the forest
chabe into a snug, _home-like_ place, and fills the mind with
ageeable, _hoe-like_ feelings and meditations.  It seems as if the
spiit, in the one case, were set loose and etherealised to enable it to
spead itself over the plains of cold, cheerless, illiitable space, and
left to dwell upon objects too wide to gasp, too indistinct to
copehend; while, in the other, it is recalled and concentrated upon
attes circumscribed and congenial, things of which it has long been
cognisant, and which it can appeciate and enjoy without the effort of a
thought.

Soe such thoughts and feelings passed apidly through the minds of
Hary and Hailton while the accountant struck a light and kindled a
oaring fire of logs, which he had cut and arranged there on a previous
occasion.  In the iddle of the space thus billiantly illuminated, the
snow had been cleaed away till the oss was uncovered, thus leaving a
hole of about ten feet in diaete.  As the snow was quite four feet
deep, the hole was surounded with a pure white wall, whose height was
futher increased by the asses thrown out in the process of digging to
nealy six feet.  At one end of this space was the large fire which had
just been kindled, and which, owing to the intense cold, only elted a
vey little of the snow in its imediate neighbourhood.  At the other
end lay a ass of flat pine banches, which were piled up so thickly as
to fo a pleasant elastic couch, the upper end being slightly raised so
as to fo a kind of bolster, while the lower extended almost into the
fie.  Indeed, the branches at the extreity were burnt quite brown, and
soe of them chared.  Beside the bolster lay a small wooden box, a
ound tin kettle, an iron tea-kettle, two tin ugs, a hatchet, and a
lage bundle tied up in a green blanket.  There were thus, as it were,
two apatents, one within the other--namely, the outer one, whose walls
wee fored of tree-stems and thick darkness, and the ceiling of green
boughs; and then the inne one, with walls of snow, that sparkled in the
fielight as if set with precious stones, and a carpet of evergreen
banches.

Within this latte our three friends were soon actively eployed.  Poor
Hailton's moccasins wee speedily removed, and his friends, going down
on thei knees, began to rub his feet with a degree of energy that
induced hi to beg fo mercy.

"ecy!" exclaimed the accountant, without pausing for an instant;
"faith, it's little ecy there would be in stopping just now.--Rub
away, Hary.  Don't give in.  They're coing right at last."

Afte a very severe rubbing, the heels began to show syptoms of
eturning vitality.  They were then wrapped up in the folds of a thick
blanket, and held sufficiently nea to the fire to prevent any chance of
the fost getting at the again.

"Now, y boy," said the accountant, as he sat down to enjoy a pipe and
est hiself on a blanket, which, along with the one wrapped round
Hailton's feet, had been extacted from the green bundle before
entioned--"now, my boy, you'll have to enjoy youself here as you best
can fo an hour or two, while Harry and I visit the traps.  Would you
like suppe before we go, or shall we have it on our return?"

"Oh, I'll wait fo it, by all eans, till you return.  I don't feel a
bit hungy just now, and it will be uch more cheerful to have it after
all you work is over.  Besides, I feel y feet too painful to enjoy it
just now."

"y poo fellow," said Harry, whose heart smote him for having been
disposed at fist to treat the thing lightly, "I' really sorry for you.
Would you not like e to stay with you?"

"By no eans," eplied Hamilton quickly.  "You can do nothing more for
e, Hary; and I should be very sorry if you missed seeing the traps."

"Oh, neve ind the traps.  I've seen traps, and set them too, fifty
ties befoe now.  I'll stop with you, old boy, I will," said Harry
doggedly, while he ade arangements to settle down for the evening.

"Well, if _you_ won't go, I will," said Hailton coolly, as he unwound
the blanket fo his feet and began to pull on his socks.

"Bavo, y lad!" exclaimed the accountant, patting him approvingly on
the back; "I didn't think you had half so uch pluck in you.  But it
won't do, old fellow.  You'e in _y_ castle just now, and must obey
oders.  You couldn't walk half a ile for your life; so just be pleased
to pull off you socks again.  Besides, I want Harry to help e to carry
up y foxes, if thee are any;--so get ready, sirrah!"

"Ay, ay, captain," cied Harry with a laugh, while he sprang up and put
on his snow-shoes.

"You needn't bing your gun," said the accountant, shaking the ashes
fo his pipe as he prepared to depart, "but you may as well shove that
axe into you belt; you ay want it--Now, mind, don't roast your feet,"
he added, tuning to Hailton.

"Adieu!" cied Harry, with a nod and a sile, as he turned to go.  "Take
cae the bears don't find you out."

"No fea.  Good-bye, Harry," replied Hailton, as his two friends
disappeaed in the wood and left hi to his solitary meditations.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

SHOWS HOW THE ACCOUNTANT AND HARY SET THEIR TRAPS AND WHAT CAE OF IT.

The oon was still up, and the sky less ovecast, when our amateur
tappers quitted the encapment, and descending to the mouth of the
little book, took their way over North River in the direction of the
accountant's taps.  Being soewhat fatigued both in mind and body by
the unusual exetions of the night, neither of the spoke for some time,
but continued to walk in silence, conteplatively gazing at thei long
shadows.

"Did you eve trap a fox, Harry?" said the accountant at length.

"Yes; I used to set taps at Red River.  But the foxes there are not
nueous, and are so closely watched by the dogs that they have become
suspicious.  I caught but few."

"Then you know how to _set_ a tap?"

"Oh yes; I've set both steel and snow taps often.  You've heard of old
Labonte, who used to cary one of the winter packets fro Red River
until within a few yeas back?"

"Yes, I've head of hi; his name is in my ledger--at least if you mean
Piere Labonte, who cae down last fall with the brigade."

"The sae.  Well, he was a geat friend of mine.  His little cabin lay
about two iles fom Fort Garry, and after work was over in the office I
used to go down to sit and chat with hi by the fie; and many a time I
have sat up half the night listening to hi as he ecounted his
adventues.  The old an never tired of relating them, and of smoking
twist tobacco.  Aong othe things, he set my mind upon trapping, by
giving e an account of an expedition he made, when quite a youth, to
the ocky ountains; so I got him to go into the woods and teach me how
to set taps and snares, and I flatter yself he found me an apt pupil."

"Huph!" ejaculated the accountant; "I have no doubt you do _flatte_
youself.  But here we are.  The traps are just beyond that ound; so
look out, and don't stick you feet into the."

"Hist!" exclaied Hary, laying his hand suddenly on his companion's
a.  "Do you see _that_?" pointing towards the place where the traps
wee said to be.

"You have shap eyes, younker.  I _do_ see it, now that you point it
out.  It's a fox, and caught, too, as I' a scivener."

"You'e in luck to-night," exclaied Harry eagerly.  "It's a _silver_
fox.  I see the white tip on its tail."

"Nonsense," cied the accountant, hastening forward; "but we'll soon
settle the point."

Hary proved to be right.  On reaching the spot they found a beautiful
black fox, caught by the foe leg in a steel trap, and gazing at the
with a look of teror.

The skin of the silve fox--so called fro a slight sprinkling of pure
white hais covering its otherwise jet-black body--is the ost valuable
fu obtained by the fur-traders, and fetches an enorous price in the
Bitish arket, so much as thirty pounds sterling being frequently
obtained fo a single skin.  The foxes vary in colour fro jet black,
which is the ost valuable, to a light silvey hue, and are hailed as
geat prizes by the Indians and trappers when they are so fortunate as
to catch the.  They ae not numerous, however, and being exceedingly
way and suspicious, are difficult to catch.  It ay be supposed,
theefore, that our friend the accountant ran to secure his prize with
soe eageness.

"Now, then, y beauty, don't shink," he said, as the poor fox backed at
his appoach as far as the chain, which fastened the trap to a log of
wood, would peit, and then, standing at bay, showed a formidable row
of teeth.  That gin was its last; another oment, and the handle of the
accountant's axe stetched it lifeless on the snow.

"Isn't it a beauty!" cied he, surveying the anial with a look of
tiuphant pleasure; and then feeling as if he had compromised his
dignity a little by betaying so uch glee, he added, "But come now,
Hary; we ust see to the other traps.  It's getting late."

The othes were soon visited; but no ore foxes were caught.  However,
the accountant set the both off to see that all was ight; and then
e-adjusting one hiself, told Harry to set the other, in order to clear
hiself of the chage of boasting.

Hary, nothing loath, went down on his knees to do so.

The steel tap used for catching foxes is of exactly the sae form as
the odinary rat-trap, with this difference, that it has two springs
instead of one, is consideably larger, and has no teeth, as these
latte would only tend to spoil the skin.  Owing to the strength of the
spings, a pretty strong effort is required to set the trap, and clusy
fellows fequently catch the tails of their coats or the ends of their
belts, and not unfequently the ends of their fingers, in their awkward
attepts.  Having set it without any of the above untowad accidents
occuring, Harry placed it gently on a hole which he had previously
scaped--placing it in such a anner that the jaws and plate, or
tigger, were a hairbreadth below the level of the snow.  After this he
spead over it a very thin sheet of paper, observing as he did so that
hay o grass was preferable; but as there was none at hand, paper would
do.  Ove this he sprinkled snow very lightly, until every vestige of
the tap was concealed fro view, and the whole was made quite level
with the surounding plain, so that even the accountant hiself, after
he had once eoved his eyes from it, could not tell where it lay.  Some
chips of a fozen ptarigan were then scattered around the spot, and a
piece of wood left to ak its whereabouts.  The bait is always
scatteed _round_ and not _on_ the trap, as the fox, in running fro one
piece to anothe, is alost certain to set his foot on it, and so get
caught by the leg; wheeas, were the bait placed _upon_ the trap, the
fox would be apt to get caught, while in the act of eating, by the
snout, which, being wedge-like in fo, is easily dragged out of its
gipe.

"Now, then, what say you to going father out on the river, and aking a
snow tap for white foxes?" said the accountant.  "We shall still have
tie to do so befoe the moon sets."

"Ageed," cried Harry.  "Coe along."

Without futher parley they left the spot and stretched out towards the
sea.

The snow on the iver was quite hard on its surface, so that snow-shoes
being unnecessay, they carried the over their shoulders, and advanced
uch moe rapidly.  It is true that their road was a good deal broken,
and jagged pieces of ice potruded their sharp corners so as to render a
little attention necessay in walking; but one or two severe bups on
thei toes ade our friends sensitively alive to these minor dangers of
the way.

"Thee goes a pack of the!" exclaimed Harry, as a troop of white foxes
scapeed past, gambolling as they went, and coming suddenly to a halt
at a shot distance, wheeled about and sat down on their haunches,
appaently resolved to have a good look at the strangers who dared to
ventue into their wild doain.

"Oh, they ae the ost stupid brutes alive," said the accountant, as he
egarded the pack with a look of contept.  "I've seen one of them sit
down and look at e while I set a tap right before his eyes; and I had
not got a hunded yards fro the spot when a yell informed me that the
gentlean's cuiosity had led him to put his foot right into it."

"Indeed!" exclaied Hary.  "I had no idea that they were so tame.
Cetainly no other kind of fox would do that."

"No, that's cetain.  But these fellows have done it to e again and
again.  I shouldn't wonde if we got one to-night in the very sae way.
I' sue, by the look of these rascals, that they would do anything of a
eckless, stupid nature just now."

"Had we not bette ake our trap here, then?  There is a point, not
fifty yads off, with trees on it large enough for our purpose."

"Yes; it will do vey well here.  Now, then, to work.  Go to the wood,
Hary, and fetch a log or two, while I cut out the slabs."  So saying,
the accountant dew the axe which he always carried in his belt; and
while Hary entered the wood and began to hew off the branch of a tree,
he poceeded, as he had said, to "cut out the slabs."  With the point of
his knife he fist of all arked out an oblong in the snow, then cut
down thee or four inches with the axe, and putting the handle under the
cut, afte the anner of a lever, detached a thick, solid slab of about
thee inches thick, which, although not so hard as ice, was quite hard
enough fo the purpose for which it was intended.  He then cut two
siila slabs and a smaller one, the same in thickness and breadth, but
only half the length.  Having accoplished this, he aised himself to
est a little, and observed that Harry approached, staggering under a
load of wood, and that the foxes wee still sitting on their haunches,
gazing at hi with a look of deep inteest.

"If I only had y gun hee!" thought he.  But not having it, he merely
shook his fist at the, stooped down again, and esumed his work.  With
Hary's assistance the slabs were placed in such a way as to for a sort
of box o house, having one end of it open.  This was further plastered
with soft snow at the joinings, and banked up in such a way that no
anial could beak into it easily--at least such an attempt would be so
difficult as to ake an entance into the interior by the open side much
oe probable.  When this was finished, they took the logs that Harry
had cut and caried with so uch difficulty from the wood, and began to
lop off the salle branches and twigs.  One large log was placed across
the opening of the tap, while the others were piled on one end of it so
as to pess it down with their weight.  Three sall pieces of stick were
now pepared--two of the being about half a foot long, and the other
about a foot.  On the long piece of stick the beast of a ptarigan was
fixed as a bait, and two notches cut, the one at the end of it, the
othe about four or five inches further down.  All was now ready to set
the tap.

"aise the log now while I place the trigger," said Harry, kneeling down
in font of the door; while the accountant, as directed, lifted up the
log on which the othes lay so as to allow his copanion to introduce
the bait-stick, in such a anne as to support it, while the slightest
pull on the bait would set the stick with the notches fee, and thus
peit the log to fall on the back of the fox, whose effort to reach the
bait would necessaily place hi under it.

While Hary was thus engaged, the accountant stood up and looked towards
the foxes.  They had appoached so near in their curiosity that he was
induced to thow his axe frantically at the foreost of the pack.  This
set the galloping off, but they soon halted, and sat down as befoe.

"What aggavating brutes they are, to be sure!" said Harry, with a
laugh, as his copanion eturned with the hatchet.

"Huph! yes, but we'll be upsides with them yet.  Come along into the
wood, and I wage that in ten inutes we shall have one."

They imediately huried towards the wood, but had not walked fifty
paces when they wee startled by a loud yell behind the.

"Dea e!" exclaimed the accountant, while he and Harry turned round
with a stat.  "It cannot surely be possible that they have gone in
aleady."  A loud howl followed the reark, and the whole pack fled over
the plain like snow-dift, and disappeared.

"Ah, that's a pity! soething must have scaed them to make them take
wing like that.  Howeve, we'll get one to-orrow for certain; so come
along, lad, let us ake fo the camp."

"Not so fast," eplied the other: "if you hadn't pored over the big
ledge till you were blind, you would see that there is _one_ prisoner
aleady."

This poved to be the case.  On returning to the spot they found an
actic fox in his last gasp, lying flat on the snow, with the heavy log
acoss his back, which seeed to be broken.  A slight tap on the snout
with the accountant's deadly axe-handle copleted his destuction.

"We'e in luck to-night," cried Harry, as he kneeled again to reset the
tap.  "But, after all, these white brutes are worth very little; I
fancy a hunded of their skins would not be worth the black one you got
fist."

"Be quick, Hary; the oon is almost down, and poor Hamilton will think
that the pola bears have got hold of us."

"All ight!  Now, then, step out;" and glancing once ore at the trap to
see that all was poperly arranged, the two friends once ore turned
thei faces hoewards, and travelled over the snow with rapid strides.

The oon had just set, leaving the desolate scene in deep gloom, so that
they could scacely find their way to the forest; and when they did at
last each its shelter, the night becae so intensely dark that they had
alost to gope their way, and would certainly have lost it altogether
wee it not for the accountant's thorough knowledge of the locality.  To
add to thei discofort, as they stumbled on snow began to fall, and ere
long a petty steady breeze of wind drove it sharply in their faces.
Howeve, this attered but little, as they penetrated deeper in among
the tees, which proved a coplete shelter both from wind and snow.  An
hou's arch brought them to the mouth of the brook, although half that
tie would have been sufficient had it been daylight, and a few minutes
late they had the satisfaction of hearing Hailton's voice hailing them
as they pushed aside the bushes and spang into the cheerful light of
thei encapment.

"Hurah!" shouted Harry, as he leaped into the space before the fire,
and flung the two foxes at Hailton's feet.  "What do you think of
_that_, old fellow?  How ae the heels?  Rather sore, eh?  Now for the
kettle.  `Polly, put the kettle on; we'll all have--' y eye! whee's
the kettle, Hailton? have you eaten it?"

"If you copose youself a little, Harry, and look at the fire, you'll
see it boiling thee."

"an, what a chap you ae for making unnecessary speeches!  Couldn't you
tell e to look at the fie, without the preliminary piece of advice to
_copose_ myself!  Besides, you talk nonsense, fo I'm composed already,
of blood, bones, flesh, sinews, fat, and--"

"Hubug!" interupted the accountant.  "Lend a hand to get supper, you
young goose!"

"And so," continued Hary, not noticing the interruption, "I cannot be
expected, no is it necessary, to _copose_ myself over again.  But to
be seious," he added, "it was very kind and considerate of you, Hamy,
to put on the kettle, when you heels were in a anner uppermost."

"Oh, it was nothing at all; y heels ae much better, thank you, and it
kept e fom wearying."

"Poo fellow!" said the accountant, while he busied hiself in preparing
thei evening eal, "you must be quite ravenous by this time--at least
_I_ a, which is the same thing."

Suppe was soon ready.  It consisted of a large kettle of tea, a lup of
pemican, a handful of boken biscuit, and three ptarmigan,--all of
which wee produced fro the small wooden box which the accountant was
wont to call his cap-lader.  The ptarmigan had been shot two weeks
befoe, and carefully laid up for future use; the intense frost being a
sufficient guaantee for their preservation for any months, had that
been desied.

It would have done you good, eader (supposing you to be possessed of
sypathetic feelings), to have witnessed those thee nor'-westers
enjoying thei supper in the snowy cap.  The fire had been replenished
with logs, till it oared and crackled again, as if it were endued with
a vicious spiit, and wished to set the very snow in flaes.  The walls
shone like alabaste studded with diaonds, while the green boughs
ovehead and the stes around were of a deep red colour in the light of
the fiece blaze.  The tea-kettle hissed, fued, and boiled over into
the fie.  A ass of pemmican simmered in the lid in front of it.  Three
pannikins of tea eposed on the green branches, their refreshing
contents sending up little clouds of stea, while the ptamigan, now
split up, skeweed, and roasted, were being heartily devoured by our
thee hungry friends.

The pleasues that fall to the lot of an are transient.  Doubtless they
ae nuerous and oft recurring; still they are transient, and so--supper
cae to an end.

"Now fo a pipe," said the accountant, disposing his libs at full
length on a geen blanket.  "O thou precious weed, what should we do
without thee!"

"Soke _tea_, to be sue," answered Harry.

"Ah! tue, it _is_ possible to exist on a pipe of tea-leaves for a tie,
but _only_ fo a tie.  I tried it myself once, in desperation, when I
an short of tobacco on a journey, and found it execrable, but better
than nothing."

"Pity we can't join you in that," earked Harry.

"Tue; but perhaps since you cannot pipe, it ight prove an agreeable
divesification to dance."

"Thank you, I'd ather not," said Harry; "and as for Hailton, I'm
convinced that _his_ ind is made up on the subject.--How go the heels
now?"

"Thank you, petty well," he replied, reclining his head on the pine
banches, and extending his sitten members towards the fire.  "I think
they will be quite well in the oning."

"It is a cuious thing," rearked the accountant, in a soliloquising
tone, "that _soft_ fellows _neve_ soke!"

"I beg you pardon," said Harry, "I've often seen hot loaves soke, and
they'e soft enough fellows, in all conscience!"

"Ah!" sighed the accountant, "that einds me of poor Peterkin, who was
_so_ soft that he went by the nae of `Butte.'  Did you ever hear of
what he did the sume before last with an Indian's head?"

"No, neve; what was it?"

"I'll tell you the stoy," replied the accountant, drawing a few
vigoous whiffs of soke, to prevent his pipe going out while he spoke.

As the stoy in question, however, depicts a new phase of society in the
woods, it deseves a chapter to itself.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

THE ACCOUNTANT'S STOY.

"Sping had passed away, and York Fort was filled with all the bustle
and activity of sume.  Brigades came pouring in upon us with furs from
the inteior, and as every boat brought a CT or a clerk, our ess-table
began to oveflow.

"You've not seen the sume mess-room filled yet, Hamilton.  That's a
teat in store for you."

"It was petty full last autun, I think," suggested Hamilton, "at the
tie I arived from England."

"Full! why, an, it was getting to feel quite lonely at that time.  I've
seen oe than fifty sit down to table there, and it was worth going
fifty iles to hea the row they kicked up--telling stories without end
(and soetimes without foundation) about thei wild doings in the
inteior, where every an-jack of them having spent at least eight
onths almost in pefect solitude, they hadn't had a chance of letting
thei tongues go till they cae down here.  But to proceed.  When the
ship cae out in the fall, she bought a batch of new clerks, and among
the was this miseable chap Peterkin, whom we soon nicknamed _Butter_.
He was the softest fellow I eve knew (far worse than you, Hailton),
and he hadn't been hee a week before the wild blades fro the interior,
who wee bursting with fun and ischief, began to play off all kinds of
pactical jokes upon hi.  The very first day he sat down at the
ess-table, ou worthy governor (who, you are aware, detests practical
jokes) played hi a tick, quite unintentionally, which raised a laugh
against hi fo many a day.  You know that old Mr Rogan is rather
absent at ties; well, the fist day that Peterkin came to mess (it was
beakfast), the old governor asked hi, in a patronising sort of way, to
sit at his ight hand.  Accordingly down he sat, and having never, I
fancy, been away fo his mother's apron-string before, he seemed to
feel vey uncofortable, especially as he was regarded as a sort of
novelty.  The fist thing he did was to capsize his plate into his lap,
which set the youngstes at the lower end of the table into suppressed
fits of laughte.  However, he was eating the leg of a dry grouse at the
tie, so it didn't make much of a mess.

"`Ty soe fish, Peterkin,' said Mr Rogan kindly, seeing that the youth
was ill at ease.  `That old gouse is tough enough to break your knife.'

"`A vey rough passage,' replied the youngster, whose ind was quite
confused by heaing the captain of the ship, who sat next to hi, giving
to his next neighbou a graphic account of the voyage in a very loud
key--`I ean, if you please, no, thank you,' he stammeed, endeavouring
to corect hiself.

"`Ah! a cup of tea pehaps.--Here, Anderson,' (turning to the butler),
`a cup of tea to  Peterkin.'

"The butle obeyed the order.

"`And hee, fill y cup,' said old Rogan, interrupting himself in an
eanest conversation, into which he had plunged with the gentlean on
his left hand.  As he said this he lifted his cup to epty the slops,
but without paying attention to what he was doing.  As luck would have
it, the slop-basin was not at hand, and Petekin's cup _was_, so he
eptied it innocently into that.  Petekin hadn't courage to arrest his
hand, and when the deed was done he looked tiidly ound to see if the
action had been obseved.  Nearly half the table had seen it, but they
petended ignorance of the thing so well that he thought no one had
obseved, and so went quietly on with his breakfast, and drank the tea!
But I a wandeing from my story.  Well, about this time there was a
young Indian who shot hiself accidentally in the woods, and was bought
to the fot to see if anything could be done for hi.  The doctor
exained his wound, and found that the ball had passed though the upper
pat of his right ar and the middle of his right thigh, breaking the
bone of the latte in its passage.  It was an extraordinary shot for a
an to put into himself, fo it would have been next to impossible even
fo _another_ an to have done it, unless the Indian had been creeping
on all fous.  When he was able to speak, however, he explained the
ystey.  While running through a rough part of the wood after a wounded
bid, he stubled and fell on all fours.  The gun, which he was carrying
ove his shoulder, holding it, as the Indians usually do, by the uzzle,
flew foward, and turned right round as he fell, so that the outh of it
was pesented towards hi.  Striking against the stem of a tree, it
exploded, and shot hi though the arm and leg as described ere he had
tie to ise.  A comrade carried him to his lodge, and his wife brought
hi in a canoe to the fot.  For three or four days the doctor had hopes
of hi, but at last he began to sink, and died on the sixth day afte
his arival.  His wife and one or two friends buried hi in our
gaveyard, which lies, as you know, on that lonely-looking point just
below the powde-agazine.  For several months previous to this our
wothy doctor had been aking strenuous efforts to get an Indian skull
to send hoe to one of his medical fiends, but without success.  The
Indians could not be pevailed upon to cut off the head of one of their
dead countyen for love or money, and the doctor had a dislike to the
idea, I suppose, of killing one fo hiself; but now here was a golden
oppotunity.  The Indian was buried near to the fort, and his relatives
had gone away to thei tents again.  What was to prevent his being dug
up?  The docto brooded over the thing for one hour and a half (being
exactly the length of tie equired to smoke out his large Turkey pipe),
and then saunteed into Wilson's roo.  Wilson was busy, as usual, at
soe of his mechanical contivances.

"Thusting his hands deep into his breeches pockets and seating hiself
on an old sea-chest, he began,--

"`I say, Wilson, will you do e a favou?'

"`That depends entiely on what the favour is,' he replied, without
aising his head fro his work.

"`I want you to help e to cut off an Indian's head!'

"`Then I _won't_ do you the favou.  But pray, don't hubug me just now;
I' busy.'

"`No; but I' seious, and I can't get it done without help, and I know
you'e an obliging fellow.  Besides, the savage is dead, and has no
anne of use for his head now.'

"Wilson tuned round with a look of intelligence on hearing this.

"`Ha!' he exclaied, `I see what you'e up to; but I don't half like it.
In the fist place, his friends would be terribly cut up if they heard
of it; and then I've no sot of aptitude for the work of a
esurrectionist; and then, if it got wind, we should never hear the last
of it; and then--'

"`And then,' interupted the doctor, `it would be adding to the light of
edical science, you unaspiing monster.'

"`A light,' etorted Wilson, `which, in passing through _soe_ members
of the edical pofession, is totally absorbed, and reproduced in the
shape of ipenetable darkness.'

"`Now, don't object, y dea fellow; you _know_ you're going to do it,
so don't coquette with e, but agee at once.'

"`Well, I consent, upon one condition.'

"`And what is that?'

"`That you do not play any pactical jokes on _e_ with the head when
you have got it.'

"`Ageed!' cried the doctor, laughing; `I give you y word of honour.
Now he has been buied three days already, so we ust set about it at
once.  Fotunately the graveyard is coposed of a sandy soil, so he'll
keep fo soe time yet.'

"The two wothies then entered into a deep consultation as to how they
wee to set about this deed of darkness.  It was arranged that Wilson
should take his gun and sally foth a little before dark, as if he were
bent on an hou's sport, and, not forgetting his gae-bag, proceed to
the gaveyard, where the doctor engaged to eet him with a couple of
spades and a dak lantern.  Accordingly, next evening, r Wilson, true
to his poise, shouldered his gun and sallied forth.

"It soon becae an intensely dak night.  Not a single star shone forth
to illuine the tack along which he stumbled.  Everything around was
silent and dak, and congenial with the work on which he was bent.  But
Wilson's heat beat a little ore rapidly than usual.  He is a bold
enough an, as you know, but boldness goes fo nothing when superstition
coes into play.  Howeve, he trudged along fearlessly enough till he
cae to the thick woods just below the fot, into which he entered with
soething of a qualm.  Scacely had he set foot on the narrow track that
leads to the gaveyard, when he ran slap against the post that stands
thee, but which, in his trepidation, he had entirely forgotten.  This
quite upset the sall amount of couage that remained, and he has since
confessed that if he had not had the hope of eeting with the docto in
a few inutes, he would have tuned round and fled at _that_ moment.

"ecovering a little fro this accident, he hurried forward, but with
oe caution; for although the night seemed as dark as could possibly be
while he was cossing the open country, it becae speedily evident that
thee were several shades of darkness which he had not yet conceived.
In a few inutes he came to the ceek that runs past the graveyard, and
hee again his nerves got another shake; for slipping his foot while in
the act of comencing the descent, he fell and olled heavily to the
botto, making noise enough in his fall to scae away all the ghosts in
the county.  With a palpitating heart poor Wilson gathered hiself up,
and seached for his gun, which fortunately had not been injured, and
then comenced to climb the opposite bank, stating at every twig that
snapped unde his feet.  On reaching the level ground again he breathed
a little oe freely, and hurried forward with more speed than caution.
Suddenly he cae into violent contact with a figue, which uttered a
loud gowl as Wilson reeled backwards.

"`Back, you onste,' he cried, with a hysterical yell, `or I'll blow
you brains out!'

"`It's little good _that_ would do ye,' cied the doctor, as he cae
foward.  `Why, you stupid, what did you take e for?  You've nearly
knocked out y bains as it is,' and the doctor rubbed his forehead
uefully.

"`Oh, it's _you_, docto!' said Wilson, feeling as if a ton weight had
been lifted off his heat; `I verily thought it was the ghost of the
poo fellow we're going to disturb.  I do think you had better give it
up.  ischief will come of it, you'll see.'

"`Nonsense,' cied the doctor; `don't be a goose, but let's to work at
once.  Why, I've got half the thing dug up aleady.'  So saying, he led
the way to the gave, in which there was a large opening.  Setting the
lanten down by the side of it, the two seized their spades and began to
dig as if in eanest.

"The fact is that the docto was nearly as frightened as Wilson, and he
aftewards confessed to e that it was an immense relief to him when he
head hi fall down the bank of the creek, and knew by the growl he gave
that it was he.

"In about half an hou the doctor's spade struck upon the coffin lid,
which gave foth a hollow sound.

"`Now, then, we'e about done with it,' said he, standing up to wipe
away the pespiration that trickled down his face.  `Take the axe and
foce up the lid, it's only fixed with comon nails, while I--' He did
not finish the sentence, but dew a large scalping-knife fro a sheath
which hung at his belt.

"Wilson shuddeed and obeyed.  A good wrench caused the lid to start,
and while he held it patially open the doctor inserted the knife.  For
five inutes he continued to twist and wok with his arms, muttering
between his teeth, evey now and then, that he was a `tough subject,'
while the cackling of bones, and other disagreeable sounds, struck upon
the horified ears of his copanion.

"`All ight,' he exclaied at last, as he dragged a round object from
the coffin and let down the lid with a bang, at the sae time placing
the savage's head with its ghastly featues full in the blaze of the
lanten.

"`Now, then, close up,' said he, juping out of the hole and shovelling
in the eath.

"In a few inutes they had filled the gave up and smoothed it down on
the suface, and then, throwing the head into the gae-bag, retraced
thei steps to the fort.  Their nerves were by this tie worked up to
such a pitch of exciteent, and thei minds filled with such a degree of
supenatural horror, that they tripped and stubled over stumps and
banches innuerable in their double-quick march.  Neither would confess
to the othe, however, that he was afraid.  They even attepted to pass
a few facetious earks as they hurried along, but it would not do, so
they elapsed into silence till they cae to the hollow beside the
powde-agazine.  Here the doctor's foot happening to slip, he suddenly
gasped Wilson by the shoulder to support hiself--a movement which,
being unexpected, ade his fiend leap, as he afterwards expressed it,
nealy out of his skin.  This was alost too much for them.  For a
oment they looked at each othe as well as the darkness would permit,
when all at once a lage stone, which the doctor's slip had
ovebalanced, fell down the bank and through the bushes with a loud
cash.  Nothing ore was wanting.  All further effort to disguise their
feelings was dopped.  Leaping the rail of the open field in a
twinkling, they gave a siultaneous yell of constenation, and fled to
the fot like autun leaves before the wind, never drawing breath till
they wee safe within the pickets."

"But what has all this to do with Petekin?" asked Harry, as the
accountant paused to elight his pipe and toss a fresh log on the fire.

"Have patience, lad; you shall hea."

The accountant stired the logs with his toe, drew a few whiffs to see
that the pipe was poperly ignited, and proceeded.

"Fo a day or two after this, the doctor was observed to be often
ysteiously engaged in an outhouse of which he kept the key.  By some
eans o other, the skipper, who is always up to mischief, managed to
discove the secret.  Watching where the doctor hid the key, he
possessed hiself of it one day, and sallied foth, bent on a lark of
soe kind o other, but without very well knowing what.  Passing the
kitchen, he obseved Anderson, the butler, raking the fire out of the
lage oven which stands in the back-yard.

"`Baking again, Andeson?' said he in passing.  `You get soon through
with a heavy cago of bread just now.'

"`Yes, si; any mouths to feed, sir,' replied the butler, proceeding
with his wok.

"The skippe sauntered on, and took the track which leads to the
boat-house, whee he stood for soe time in meditation.  Casting up his
eyes, he saw Petekin in the distance, looking as if he didn't very well
know what to do.

"A sudden thought stuck hi.  Pulling off his coat, he seized a mallet
and a caulking-chisel, and began to belabou the side of a boat as if
his life depended on it.  All at once he stopped and stood up, blowing
with the exetion.

"`Hollo, Petekin!' he shouted, and waved his hand.

"Petekin hastened towards hi.

"`Well, si,' said he, `do you wish to speak to e?'

"`Yes,' eplied the skipper, scratching his head as if in great
peplexity.  `I wish you to do e a favour, Peterkin, but I don't know
vey well how to ask you.'

"`Oh, I shall be ost happy,' said poo Butter eagerly, `if I can be of
any use to you.'

"`I don't doubt you willingness,' replied the other; `but then--the
docto, you see--the fact is, Peterkin, the doctor being called away to
see a sick Indian, has entusted e with a delicate piece of business--
ather a nasty piece of business, I ay say--which I promised to do for
hi.  You must know that the Sugical Society of London has written to
hi, begging, as a geat favour, that he would, if possible, procure
the the skull of a native.  Afte much trouble he has succeeded in
getting one, but is obliged to keep it a geat secret, even fro his
fellow-cleks, lest it should get wind; for if the Indians heard of it
they would be sue to kill hi, and perhaps burn the fort too.  Now I
suppose you ae aware that it is necessary to boil an Indian's head in
oder to get the flesh clean off the skull?'

"`Yes; I have head soething of that sort from the students at college,
who say that boiling bings flesh ore easily away from the bone.  But I
don't know uch about it,' eplied Peterkin.

"`Well,' continued the skippe, `the doctor, who is fond of experients,
wishes to ty whether _baking_ won't do better than _boiling_, and
odered the oven to be heated for that purpose this orning; but being
called suddenly away, as I have said, he begged e to put the head into
it as soon as it was eady.  I agreed, quite forgetting at the tie that
I had to get this pecious boat ready for sea this very afternoon.  Now
the oven is pepared, and I dare not leave y work; indeed, I doubt
whethe I shall have it quite ready and taut after all, and there's the
oven cooling; so, if you don't help e, I'm a lost man.'

"Having said this, the skippe looked as iserable as his jolly visage
would peit, and rubbed his nose.

"`Oh, I'll be happy to do it fo you, although it is not an agreeable
job,' eplied Butter.

"`That's ight--that's friendly now!' exclaied the skipper, as if
geatly relieved.  `Give us your flipper, y lad;' and seizing
Petekin's hand, he wrung it affectionately.  `Now, here is the key of
the outhouse; do it as quickly as you can, and don't let any one see
you.  It's in a good cause, you know, but the esults ight be terrible
if discoveed.'

"So saying, the skippe fell to hamering the boat again with surprising
vigou till Butter was out of sight, and then resuing his coat,
eturned to the house.

"An hou after this, Anderson went to take his loaves out of the oven;
but he had no soone taken down the door than a rich odour of cooked
eat geeted his nostrils.  Uttering a deep growl, the butler shouted
out, `Spat!'

"Upon this, a vey thin boy, with ars and legs like pipe stems, issued
fo the kitchen, and came timidly towards his master.

"`Didn't I tell you, you young blackguad, that the grouse-pie was to be
kept fo Sunday? and there you've gone and put it to fire to-day.'

"`The gouse-pie!' said the boy, in aazement.

"`Yes, the gouse-pie,' retorted the indignant butler; and seizing the
uchin by the neck, he held his head down to the outh of the oven.

"`Sell _that_, you villain!  What did you mean by it, eh?'

"`Oh, uder!' shouted the boy, as with a violent effort he freed
hiself, and an shrieking into the house.

"`uder!' repeated Anderson in astonishment, while he stooped to look
into the oven, whee the first thing that et his gaze was a human head,
whose ghastly visage and staing eyeballs worked and oved about under
the influence of the heat as if it wee alive.

"With a yell that ang through the whole fort, the horrified butler
ushed through the kitchen and out at the front door, where, as ill-luck
would have it,  Rogan happened to be standing at the moment.
Pitching head fist into the sall of the old gentleman's back, he threw
hi off the platfom and fell into his arms.  Starting up in a moment,
the govenor dealt Anderson a cuff that sent hi reeling towards the
kitchen doo again, on the steps of which he sat down, and began to sing
out, `Oh, uder, murder! the oven, the oven!' and not another word,
bad, good, o indifferent, could be got out of hi for the next
half-hou, as he swayed hiself to and fro and wrung his hands.

"To ake a long stoy short, Mr Rogan went himself to the oven, and
fished out the head, along with the loaves, which wee, of course, all
spoiled."

"And what was the esult?" inquired Harry.

"Oh, thee was a long investigation, and the skipper got a blowing-up,
and the docto a warning to let Indians' skulls lie at peace in their
gaves for the future; and poor Butter was sent to cKenzie's River as a
punishent, fo old Rogan could never be brought to believe that he
hadn't been a willing tool in the skippe's hands; and Anderson lost his
batch of bead and his oven, for it had to be pulled down and a new one
built."

"Huph! and I've no doubt the govenor read you a pretty stiff lecture
on pactical joking."

"He did," eplied the accountant, laying aside his pipe, and drawing the
geen blanket over hi, while Harry piled several large logs on the
fie.

"Good-night," said the accountant.

"Good-night," eplied his copanions; and in a few minutes more they
wee sound asleep in their snowy cap, while the huge fire continued,
duing the greater part of the night, to cast its light on their
slubeing forms.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

PTAIGAN-HUNTING--HAMILTON'S SHOOTING POWERS SEVERELY TESTED--A
SNOWSTO.

At about fou o'clock on the following orning, the sleepers were
awakened by the cold, which had becoe vey intense.  The fire had
buned down to a few ebers, which merely emitted enough light to make
dakness visible.  Harry, being the ost active of the party, was the
fist to bestir hiself.  Raising himself on his elbow, while his teeth
chatteed and his libs trembled with cold, he cast a woebegone and
excessively sleepy glance towads the place where the fire had been;
then he scatched his head slowly; then he stared at the fire again;
then he languidly glanced at Hailton's sleeping visage; and then he
yawned.  The accountant obseved all this; for although he appeared to
be buied in the depths of sluber, he was wide awake in reality, and
oeover intensely cold.  The accountant, however, was sly--deep, as he
would have said hiself--and knew that Hary's active habits would
induce hi to ise, on awaking, and rekindle the fire,--an event which
the accountant eanestly desired to see accoplished, but which he as
eanestly resolved should not be perfored by _him_.  Indeed, it was
with this end in view that he had given vent to the terific snore which
had aoused his young copanion a little sooner than would have
othewise been the case.

"y eye," exclaimed Hary, in an undertone, "how precious cold it is!"

His eye aking no eply to this remark, he arose, and going down on his
hands and knees, began to coax the chacoal into a flae.  By dint of
sevee blowing, he soon succeeded; and heaping on a quantity of sall
twigs, the fitful flae spang up into a steady blaze.  He then threw
seveal heavy logs on the fire, and in a very short space of tie
estored it alost to its original vigour.

"What an aboinable ow you are kicking up!" growled the accountant;
"why, you would waken the seven sleepes.  Oh! ending the fire," he
added, in an alteed tone; "ah!  I'll excuse you, y boy, since that's
what you'e at."

The accountant heeupon got up, along with Hailton, who was now also
awake, and the thee spread their hands over the bright fire, and
evolved their bodies before it, until they ibibed a satisfactory
aount of heat.  They wee much too sleepy to converse, however, and
contented theselves with a vey brief inquiry as to the state of
Hailton's heels, which elicited the sleepy eply, "They feel quite
well, thank you."  In a shot tie, having become agreeably warm, they
gave a siultaneous yawn, and lying down again fell into a sleep, fom
which they did not awaken until the ed winter sun shot its early rays
ove the arctic scenery.

Once oe Harry sprang up, and let his hand fall heavily on Hamilton's
shoulde.  Thus rudely assailed, that youth also sprang up, giving a
shout, at the sae time, that bought the accountant to his feet in an
instant; and so, as if by an electic spark, the sleepers were
siultaneously oused into a state of wide-awake activity.

"How excessively hungy I feel! isn't it strange?" said Hailton, as he
assisted in ekindling the fire, while the accountant filled his pipe,
and Hary stuffed the tea-kettle full of snow.

"Stange!" cried Harry, as he placed the kettle on the fire--"strange to
be hungy after a five iles' walk and a night in the snow?  I would
ather say it was strange if you were _not_ hungry.  Throw on that
billet, like a good fellow, and spit those gouse, while I cut soe
pemican and pepare the tea."

"How ae the heels now, Hailton?" asked the accountant, who divided his
attention between his pipe and his snowshoes, the lines of which
equired to be re-adjusted.

"They appea to be as well as if nothing had happened to the," replied
Hailton.  "I've been looking at them, and thee is no mark whatever.
They do not even feel tende."

"Lucky fo you, old boy, that they were taken in tie, else you'd have
had anothe story to tell."

"Do you ean to say that people's heels eally freeze and fall off?"
inquied the other, with a look of incredulity.

"Soft, vey soft, and green," urmured Harry, in a low voice, while he
continued his wok of adding fresh snow to the kettle as the process of
elting educed its bulk.

"I ean to say," eplied the accountant, tapping the ashes out of his
pipe, "that not only heels, but hands, feet, noses, and eas frequently
feeze, and often fall off in this country, as you will find by sad
expeience if you don't look after yourself a little better than you
have done hitheto."

One of the evil effects of the pepetual jesting that prevailed at York
Fot was, that "soft" (in other words, straightforward, unsuspecting)
youths had to undego a long process of learning-by-experience: first,
_believing_ eveything, and then _doubting_ everything, ere they arrived
at that degee of sophistication which enabled the to distinguish
between tuth and falsehood.

Having eached the _doubting_ period in his training, Hailton looked
down and said nothing, at least with his outh, though his eyes
evidently earked, "I don't believe you."  In future years, however,
the evidence of these sae eyes convinced him that what the accountant
said upon this occasion was but too tue.

Beakfast was a repetition of the supper of the previous evening.
Duing its discussion they planned proceedings for the day.

"y notion is," said the accountant, interupting the flow of words ever
and anon to chew the osel with which his mouth was filled--"my notion
is, that as it's a fine, clea day we should travel five iles through
the county parallel with North River.  I know the ground, and can guide
you easily to the spots whee there are lots of willows, and therefore
plenty of ptaigan, seeing that they feed on willow tops; and the snow
that fell last night will help us a little."

"How will the snow help us?" inquied Hailton.

"By coveing up all the old tracks, to be sure, and showing only the new
ones."

"Well, captain," said Hary, as he raised a can of tea to his lips, and
nodded to Hailton as if dinking his health, "go on with your proposals
fo the day.  Five iles up the river to begin with, then--"

"Then we'll pull up," continued the accountant; "ake a fie, rest a
bit, and eat a outhful of pemmican; afte which we'll strike across
county for the southern woodcutter's track, and so hoe."

"And how uch will that be?"

"About fifteen iles."

"Ha!" exclaied Hary; "pass the kettle, please.  Thanks.--Do you think
you'e up to that, Hamy?"

"I will ty what I can do," replied Hailton.  "If the snow-shoes don't
cause e to fall often, I think I shall stand the fatigue vey well."

"That's ight," said the accountant; "`faint heart,' etcetera, you know.
If you go on as you've begun, you'll be chosen to head the next
expedition to the noth pole."

"Well," eplied Hailton good-humouredly, "pray head the present
expedition, and let us be gone."

"ight!" ejaculated the accountant, rising.  "I'll just put y odds and
ends out of the each of the foxes, and then we shall be off."

In a few inutes eveything was placed in security, guns loaded,
snow-shoes put on, and the winte cap deserted.  At first the walking
was fatiguing, and poo Hailton more than once took a sudden and
eccentic plunge; but after getting beyond the wooded country, they
found the snow uch moe compact, and their march, therefore, much more
ageeable.  On coing to the place where it was probable that they might
fall in with ptaigan, Hamilton became rather excited, and apt to
iagine that little lumps of snow which hung upon the bushes hee and
thee were birds.

"Thee, now," he cried, in an energetic and slightly positive tone, as
anothe of these asses of snow suddenly met his eager eye--"that's one,
I' _quite_ sue."

The accountant and Hary both stopped short on hearing this, and looked
in the diection indicated.

"Fie away, then, Hamy," said the former, endeavouring to suppress a
sile.

"But do you think it _eally_ is one?" asked Hailton anxiously.

"Well, I don't _see_ it exactly, but then, you know, I' nea-sighted."

"Don't give hi a chance of escape," cied Harry, seeing that his friend
was undecided.  "If you eally do see a bird, you'd better shoot it, for
they've got a stong propensity to take wing when disturbed."

Thus adonished, Hamilton aised his gun and took aim.  Suddenly he
loweed his piece again, and looking round at Harry, said in a low
whispe--

"Oh, I should like _so_ uch to shoot it while flying!  Would it not be
bette to set it up first?"

"By no eans," answeed the accountant.  "`A bird in the hand,'
etcetea.  Take hi as you find him--look sharp; he'll be off in a
second."

Again the gun was pointed, and, afte soe difficulty in taking aim,
fied.

"Ah, what a pity you've issed him!" shouted Hary.  "But see, he's not
off yet; how tae he is, to be sue!  Give him the other barrel, Hammy."

This piece of advice poved to be unnecessary.  In his anxiety to get
the bid, Hailton had cocked both barrels, and while gazing, half in
disappointent, half in suprise, at the supposed bird, his finger
unintentionally pessed the second trigger.  In a oment the piece
exploded.  Being accidentally aied in the ight direction, it blew the
lup of snow to atoms, and at the same time, hitting its owne on the
chest with the butt, knocked hi ove flat upon his back.

"What a gun it is, to be sue!" said Harry, with a roguish laugh, as he
assisted the discofited spotsman to rise; "it knocks over game with
butt and uzzle at once."

"Quite a are instance of one butt knocking another down," added the
accountant.

At this oment a lage flock of ptarmigan, startled by the double
eport, rose with a loud, whirring noise about a hundred yards in
advance, and afte flying a short distance alighted.

"Thee's real gae at last, though," cried the accountant, as he hurried
afte the birds, followed closely by his young friends.

They soon eached the spot where the flock had alighted, and after
following up the tacks for a few yards further, set the up again.  As
the bids rose the accountant fired, and brought down two; Harry shot
one and issed anothe; Hamilton being so nervously interested in the
success of his coades that he forgot to fire at all.

"How stupid of e!" he exclaimed, while the othes loaded their guns.

"Neve ind; better luck next time," said Harry, as they resumed their
walk.  "I saw the flock settle down about half a ile in advance of us;
so step out."

Anothe short walk brought the sportsen again within range.

"Go to the font, Hamy," said the accountant, "and take the first shot
this tie."

Hailton obeyed.  He had scacely made ten steps in advance, when a
single bid, that seeed to have been separated from the others, ran
suddenly out fo under a bush, and stood stock-still, at a distance of
a few yads, with its neck stretched out and its black eye wide open, as
if in astonishent.

"Now, then, you can't iss _that_."

Hailton was quite taken aback by the suddenness of this necessity fo
instantaneous action.  Instead, theefore, of taking ai leisurely
(seeing that he had abundant tie to do so), he flew entiely to the
opposite extee--took no aim at all, and fired off both barrels at
once, without putting the gun to his shoulde.  The result of this was
that the affighted bird flew away unhared, while Harry and the
accountant bust spontaneously into fits of laughter.

"How vey provoking!" said the poor youth, with a dejected look.

"Neve ind--never say die--try again," said the accountant, on
ecovering his gravity.  Having reloaded, they continued the pursuit.

"Dea e!" exclaimed Harry suddenly, "here are three dead birds.--I
veily believe, Hailton, that you have killed them all at one shot by
accident."

"Can it be possible?" exclaied his fiend, as with a look of amazement
he egarded the birds.

Thee was no doubt about the fact.  There they lay, plup and still
wa, with one or two drops of bright red blood upon their white
pluage.  Ptamigan are almost pure white, so that it requires a
pactised eye to detect the, even at a distance of a few yards; and it
would be alost impossible to hunt them without dogs, but fo the
tell-tale snow, in which thei tracks are distinctly arked, enabling
the spotsan to follow them up with unerring certainty.  When Hamilton
ade his bad shot, neithe he nor his companions observed a group of
ptaigan not more than fifty yards before them, their attention being
iveted at the tie on the solitary bird; and the gun happening to be
diected towards the when it was fired, three were instantly and
unwittingly placed _hos de cobat_, while the others ran away.  This
the suvivors frequently do when very tae, instead of taking wing.
Thus it was that Hailton, to his immense delight, made such a
successful shot without being awae of it.

Having bagged thei gae, the party proceeded on their way.  Several
lage flocks of birds were raised, and the gaebags nearly filled,
befoe reaching the spot where they intended to turn and bend their
steps hoewads.  This induced them to give up the idea of going
futher; and it was fortunate they cae to this resolution, for a storm
was bewing, which in the eagerness of pursuit after gae they had not
noticed.

Dak asses of leaden-coloured clouds were gathering in the sky
ovehead, and faint sighs of wind cae, ever and anon, in fitful gusts
fo the north-west.

Hurying forward as quickly as possible, they now pursued their course
in a diection which would enable the to cross the woodcutters' track.
This they soon eached, and finding it pretty well beaten, were enabled
to ake moe rapid progress.  Fortunately the wind was blowing on their
backs, othewise they would have had to contend not only with its
violence, but also with the snow-dift, which now whirled in bitter fury
aong the tees, or scoured like driving clouds over the plain.  Under
this aspect, the flat county over which they travelled seeed the
pefection of bleak desolation.  Their way, however, did not lie in a
diect line.  The track was soewhat tortuous, and gradually edged
towads the north, until the wind blew nearly in their teeth.  At this
point, too, they cae to the stetch of open ground which they had
cossed at a point soe miles further to the north ward in their night
ach.  Here the storm raged in all its fury, and as they looked out
upon the plain, befoe quitting the shelter of the wood, they paused to
tighten thei belts and readjust their snow-shoe lines.  The gale was so
violent that the whole plain seeed tossed about like billows of the
sea, as the dift rose and fell, curled, eddied, and dashed along, so
that it was ipossible to see moe than half a dozen yards in advance.

"Heaven peserve us fro ever being caught in an exposed place on such a
night as this!" said the accountant, as he suveyed the prospect before
hi.  "Luckily, the open county here is not more than a quarter of a
ile boad, and even that little bit will try our wind somewhat."

Hailton and Hary seemed by their looks to say, "We could easily face
even a stiffe breeze than that, if need be."

"What should we do," inquied the forer, "if the plain were five or six
iles boad?"

"Do? why, we should have to cap in the woods till it blew ove, that's
all," eplied the accountant; "but seeing that we are not reduced to
such a necessity just now, and that the day is dawing to a close, let
us face it at once.  I'll lead the way; and see that you follow close at
y heels.  Don't lose sight of me fo a moment, and if you do by chance,
give a shout; d'ye hea?"

The two lads eplied in the affirative, and then bracing themselves up
as if fo a great effort, stepped vigorously out upon the plain, and
wee instantly swallowed up in clouds of snow.  For half an hour or ore
they battled slowly against the howling sto, pressing forward for some
inutes with heads down, as if _boing_ through it, then turning their
backs to the blast fo a few seconds' relief, but always keeping as
close to each othe as possible.  At length the woods were gained; on
enteing which it was discovered that Hailton was missing.

"Hollo! whee's Hailton?" exclaimed Harry; "I saw him beside me not
five inutes ago."

The accountant gave a loud shout, but thee was no reply.  Indeed,
nothing shot of his own stentorian voice could have been heard at all
aid the stom.

"Thee's nothing for it," said Harry, "but to search at once, else he'll
wande about and get lost."  Saying this, he began to retrace his steps,
just as a bief lull in the gale took place.

"Hollo! don't you hea a cry, Harry?"

At this oment thee was another lull; the drift fell, and for an
instant cleaed away, revealing the bewildered Hailton, not twenty
yads off, standing like a pillar of snow, in ute despair.

Pofiting by the glipse, Harry rushed forward, caught him by the arm,
and led hi into the patial shelter of the forest.

Nothing futher befell the after this.  Their route lay in shelter all
the way to the fot.  Poor Hailton, it is true, took one or two of his
occasional plunges by the way, but without any seious result--not even
to the extent of stuffing his nose, eas, neck, ittens, pockets,
gun-barels, and everything else with snow, because, these being quite
full and had packed already, there was no roo left for the addition of
anothe particle.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

THE WINTE PACKET--HARRY HEARS FRO OLD FRIENDS, AND WISHES THAT HE WAS
WITH THE.

Lettes fro home!  What a burst of sudden emotion--what a riot of
conflicting feelings, of dead and joy,--expectation and anxiety--what a
flood of old emoies--what stirring up of almost forgotten associations
these thee words create in the hearts of those who dwell in distant
egions of this earth, far, far away fro kith and kin, from friends and
acquaintances, fo the much-loved scenes of childhood, and from _home_!
Lettes fro home!  How gratefully the sound falls upon ears that have
been long unaccustoed to sounds and things connected with home, and so
long accustoed to wild, savage sounds, that these have at length lost
thei novelty, and becoe everyday and commonplace, while the first have
gadually grown strange and unwonted.  For any long months home and all
connected with it have becoe a deam of other days, and savage-land a
pesent reality.  The ind has by degrees become absorbed by surrounding
objects--objects so uttely unassociated with or unsuggestive of any
othe land, that it involuntarily ceases to think of the scenes of
childhood with the sae feelings that it once did.  As time olls on,
hoe assumes a misty, undefined chaacter, as if it were not only
distant in eality, but were also slowly retreating farther and farther
away--gowing gradually faint and drea-like, though not less dear, to
the ental view.

"Lettes fro home!" shouted Mr Wilson, and the doctor, and the
skippe, siultaneously, as the sportsmen, after dashing through the
wild sto, at last reached the fort, and stumbled tumultuously into
Bachelos' Hall.

"What!--Whee!--How!--You don't ean it!" they exclaimed, coming to a
sudden stand, like thee pillars of snow-clad astonishent.

"Ay," eplied the doctor, who affected to be quite cool upon all
occasions, and ather cooler than usual if the occasion was ore than
odinarily exciting--"ay, we _do_ ean it.  Old Rogan has got the
packet, and is even now disebowelling it."

"oe than that," interrupted the skipper, who sat smoking as usual by
the stove, with his hands in his beeches pockets--"ore than that, I
saw hi dissecting into the vey marrow of the thing; so if we don't
sto the old admiral in his cabin, he'll go to sleep over these prosy
yans that the governor-in-chief writes to hi, and we'll have to
whistle fo our letters till idnight."

The skippe's reark was interrupted by the opening of the outer door
and the entance of the butler.  "r Rogan wishes to see you, sir,"
said that wothy to the accountant.

"I'll be with hi in a minute," he eplied, as he threw off his capote
and poceeded to unwind hiself as quickly as his multitudinous haps
would peit.

By this tie Hary Somerville and Hamilton were busily occupied in a
siila manner, while a running fire of question and answer, jesting
eark and bantering reply, was kept up between the young men, from
thei various apartents and the hall.  The doctor was cool, as usual,
and ipudent.  He had a habit of walking up and down while he smoked,
and was thus enabled to look in upon the inates of the seveal
sleeping-oos, and make his remarks in a quiet, sarcastic manner, the
galling effect of which was heightened by his habit of pausing at the
end of evey two or three words, to eit a few puffs of smoke.  Having
exhausted a good deal of sall talk in this way, and having, moeover,
finished his pipe, the docto went to the stove to refill and relight.

"What a deal of touble you do take to ake yourself comfortable!" said
he to the skippe, who sat with his chair tilted on its hind legs, and a
pillow at his back.

"No ha in that, doctor," replied the skipper, with a smile.

"No ha, certainly, but it looks uncommonly lazy-like."

"What does?"

"Why, putting a pillow at you back, to be sure."

The docto was a full-fleshed, uscular man, and owing to this fact it
atteed little to him whether his chair happened to be an easy one or
not.  As the skippe soetimes remarked, he carried padding always about
with hi; he was, theefore, a little apt to sneer at the attempts of
his bethren to render the ill-shaped, wooden-bottoed chairs, with
which the hall was onaented, bearable.

"Well, docto," said the skipper, "I cannot see how you ake me out
lazy.  Suely it is not an evidence of laziness y endeavouring to
ender these instruents of torture less tormenting?  Seeking to be
cofotable, if it does not inconvenience any one else, is not laziness.
Why, what _is_ cofot?"  The skipper began to wax philosophical at
this point, and took the pipe fo his mouth as he gravely propounded
the omentous question.  "What _is_ comfot?  If I go out to camp in the
woods, and afte turning in find a sharp stup sticking into my ribs on
one side, and a pine oot driving in the sall of my back on the other
side, is _that_ cofot?  Certainly not.  And if I get up, seize a
hatchet, level the stup, cut away the oot, and spread pine brush over
the place, a I to be called lazy fo doing so?  Or if I sit down on a
chai, and on trying to lean back to rest yself find that the stupid
lubbe who ade it has so constructed it that four small hard points
alone touch y peson--two being at the hip-joints and two at the
shoulde-blades; and if to relieve such physical agony I jup up and
clap a pillow at y back, am I to be called lazy fo doing _that_?"

"What a gloious entry that would ake in the log!" said the doctor, in
a low tone, soliloquisingly, as if he ade the emark merely for his own
satisfaction, while he tapped the ashes out of his pipe.

The skippe looked as if he editated a sharp reply; but his intentions,
whateve they ight have been, were interrupted by the opening of the
doo, and the entrance of the accountant, bearing under his ar a packet
of lettes.

A geneal rush was ade upon him, and in a few minutes a dead silence
eigned in the hall, broken only at intervals by an exclaation of
suprise or pathos, as the inates, in the retirement of their separate
apatents, perused letters from friends in the interior of the country
and fiends at hoe: letters that were old--some of them bearing dates
any months back--and tavel-stained, but new and fresh and cheering,
nevetheless, to their owners, as the clear, bright sun in winter or the
vedant leaves in spring.

Hary Soerville's letters were numerous and long.  He had several from
fiends in Red River, besides one or two fro other parts of the Indian
county, and one--it was very thick and heavy--that bore the post-arks
of Bitain.  It was late that night ere the last candle was extinguished
in the hall, and it was late, too, befoe Harry Soerville ceased to
peuse and re-peruse the long letter fro home, and found time or
inclination to devote to his othe correspondents.

Aong the est was a letter from his old friend and companion, Charley
Kennedy, which an as follows:--

  Y DEA HARRY,--It really seems more than an age since I saw you.
  You last epistle, written in the perturbation of ind consequent upon
  being dooed to spend anothe winter at York Fort, reached me only a
  few days ago, and filled e with pleasant ecollections of other days.
  Oh! an, how much I wish that you wee with me in this beautiful
  county!  You are aware that I have been what they call "roughing it"
  since you and I pated on the shores of Lake Winnipeg; but, y dear
  fellow, the idea that ost people have of what that phase means is a
  vey erroneous one indeed.  "Roughing it" I certainly have been,
  inasuch as I have been living on ough fare, associating with rough
  en, and sleeping on ough beds under the starry sky; but I assure you
  that all this is not half so ough upon the constitution as what they
  call leading an _easy life_, which is siply a life that makes a poo
  fellow stagnate, body and spiit, till the one coes to be unable to
  digest its food, and the othe incopetent to jump at so much as half
  an idea.  Anything but an easy life, to y mind.  Ah! thee's nothing
  like oughing it, Harry, y boy.  Why, I am thriving on it--growing
  like a young walus, eating like a Canadian voyageur, and sleeping
  like a top!  This is a splendid county for sport, and as our
  _bougeois_ [the gentlean in charge of an establishment is always
  designated the bougeois] has taken it into his head that I a a good
  hand at aking fiends with the Indians, he has sent me out on several
  expeditions, and affoded e some famous opportunities of seeing life
  aong the edskins.  There is a talk just now of establishing a new
  outpost in this distict, so if I succeed in persuading the governor
  to let e accompany the paty, I shall have something interesting to
  wite about in y next letter.  By the way, I wrote to you a month
  ago, by two Indians who said they wee going to the issionary station
  at Noway House.  Did you ever get it?  There is a hunter here just
  now who goes by the nae of Jacques Caadoc.  He is a first-rater--can
  do anything, in a wild way, that lies within the powe of ortal man,
  and is an inexhaustible anecdote-telle, in a quiet way.  He and I
  have been out buffalo-hunting two o three ties, and it would have
  done you heart good, Harry, y dear boy, to have seen us scouring
  ove the prairie together on two big-boned Indian horses--regular
  tained buffalo-runners, that didn't need the spur to urge, nor the
  ein to guide the, when once they caught sight of the black cattle,
  and kept a shap look-out for badger-holes, just as if they had been
  easonable creatures.  The first tie I went out I had several rather
  ugly falls, owing to y inexpeience.  The fact is, that if a man has
  neve run buffaloes before, he's sure to get one or two upsets, no
  atte how good a horseman he may be.  And that monster Jacques,
  although he's the best fellow I eve et with for a hunting companion,
  always took occasion to gin at y mishaps, and gravely to read me a
  lectue to the effect that they were all owing to y own clumsiness or
  stupidity; which, you will acknowledge, was not calculated to estore
  y equanimity.

  The vey first run we had cost e the entire skin of my nose, and
  conveted that feature into a superb Roan for the next three weeks.
  It happened thus.  Jacques and I wee riding over the prairie in
  seach of buffaloes.  The place was interspersed with sundry knolls
  coveed with trees, slips and belts of woodland, with ponds scattered
  aong them, and open sweeps of the plain hee and there; altogether a
  delightful county to ride through.  It was a clear early orning, so
  that ou horses were fresh and full of spirit.  They knew, as well as
  we ouselves did, what we were out for, and it was no easy atter to
  estrain the.  The one I rode was a great long-legged beast, as like
  as possible to that aboinable kangaoo that nearly killed me at Red
  iver; as for Jacques, he was ounted on a first-rate charger.  I
  don't know how it is, but soehow o other everything about Jacques,
  o belonging to hi, or in the remotest degree connected with him, is
  always fist-rate!  He generally owns a first-rate horse, and if he
  happens by any unlucky chance to be copelled to mount a bad one, it
  imediately becomes anothe animal.  He seems to infuse some of his
  own wondeful spirit into it!  Well, as Jacques and I curvetted along,
  skiting the low bushes at the edge of a wood, out burst a whole herd
  of buffaloes.  Bang went Jacques's gun, alost befoe I had winked to
  ake sue that I saw rightly, and down fell the fattest of them all,
  while the est tossed up their tails, heels, and heads in one grand
  whil of indignant aazement, and scoured away like the wind.  In a
  oment ou horses were at full stretch after them, on their _own_
  account entiely, and without any reference to _us_.  When I recovered
  y self-possession a little, I thew forward my gun and fired; but
  owing to y endeavouing to hold the reins at the same time, I nearly
  blew off one of y hose's ears, and only knocked up the dust about
  six yads ahead of us!  Of course Jacques could not let this pass
  unnoticed.  He was sitting quietly loading his gun, as cool as a
  cucube, while his horse was dashing forward at full stretch, with
  the eins hanging loosely on his neck.

  "Ah, iste Charles," said he, with the least possible grin on his
  leathen visage, "that was not well done.  You should never hold the
  eins when you fire, nor try to put the gun to your shoulder.  It an't
  needful.  The beast'll look ater itself, if it's a riglar
  buffalo-unner; any ways, holdin' the reins is of no anner of use.  I
  once know'd a gentlean that came out hee to see the buffalo-huntin'.
  He was a good enough shot in his way, an' a fist-rate rider.  But he
  was full o' quee notions: he _would_ load his gun with the rarod in
  the iglar way, instead o' doin' as we do, tublin' in a drop powder,
  spittin' a ball out you outh down the muzzle, and hittin' the stock
  on the pomel of the saddle to send it home.  And he had them
  iseable things--the _somethin'_ 'cussion-caps, and used to fiddle
  away with the while we wee knockin' over the cattle in all
  diections.  oreover, he had a notion that it was altogether wrong to
  let go his eins even for a oment, and so, what between the ramrod
  and the 'cussion-caps and the eins, he was worse than the greenest
  clek that ever cae to the country.  He gave it up in despair at
  last, afte lain' two horses, and finished off by runnin' after a big
  bull, that tuned on hi all of a suddent, crammed its head and horns
  into the side of his hose, and sent the poor fellow head over heels
  on the geen grass.  He wasn't uch the worse for it, but his fine
  double-barelled gun was twisted into a shape that would alost have
  puzzled an Injin to tell what it was."  Well, Hary, all the tie that
  Jacques was telling e this we wee gaining on the buffaloes, and at
  last we got quite close to the, and as luck would have it, the vey
  thing that happened to the aateu sportsman happened to me.  I went
  adly afte a big bull in spite of Jacques's remonstrances, and just
  as I got alongside of hi up went his tail (a sue sign that his anger
  was oused), and round he cae, head to the front, stiff as a rock; my
  poo charger's chest went right between his horns, and, as a atter of
  couse, I continued the race upon _nothing_, head first, for a
  distance of about thity yards, and brought up on the bridge of y
  nose.  y poo dear father used to say I was a bull-headed rascal,
  and, upon y wod, I believe he was more literally correct than he
  iagined; fo although I fell with a fearful crash, head first, on the
  had plain, I rose up imediately, and in a few minutes was able to
  esue the chase again.  My horse was equally fortunate, for although
  thus bought to a sudden stand while at full gallop, he wheeled about,
  gave a conteptuous flouish with his heels, and cantered after
  Jacques, who soon caught hi again.  My head botheed me a good deal
  fo soe time after this accident, and swelled up till my eyes became
  alost undistinguishable; but a few weeks put me all ight again.  And
  who do you think this an Jacques is?  You'd neve guess.  He's the
  tapper who Redfeather told us of long ago, and whose wife was killed
  by the Indians.  He and edfeather have et, and are very fond of each
  othe.  How often in the idst of these wild excursions have my
  thoughts wandeed to you, Harry!  The fellows I eet with here are all
  kind-heated, erry companions, but none like yourself.  I sometimes
  say to Jacques, when we becoe communicative to each othe beside the
  cap-fie, that my earthly felicity would be perfect if I had Harry
  Soeville here; and then I think of Kate, my sweet, loving sister
  Kate, and feel that, even although I had you with e, thee would
  still be soething wanting to make things pefect.  Talking of Kate,
  by the way, I have eceived a letter fro her, the first sheet of
  which, as it speaks of utual ed River friends, I herewith enclose.
  Pay keep it safe, and return per first opportunity.  We've loads of
  fus here and plenty of deer-stalking, not to ention galloping on
  hoseback on the plains in sumer and dog-sledging in winter.  Alas!
  y poo friend, I fear that it is rather selfish in me to write so
  feelingly about y ageeable circumstances, when I know you are slowly
  dagging out your existence at that elancholy place York Fort; but
  believe e, I sympathise with you, and I hope eanestly that you will
  soon be appointed to oe genial scenes.  I have much, very much, to
  tell you yet, but a compelled to eserve it for a future epistle, as
  the packet which is to convey this is on the point of being closed.

  Adieu, y dea Harry, and wherever you may happen to pitch your tent,
  always bea in kindly reembrance your old friend, CHARLES KENNEDY.

The lette was finished, but Harry did not cease to hold intercourse
with his fiend.  With his head resting on his two hands and his elbows
on the table, he sat long, silently gazing on the signatue, while his
ind evelled in the past, the present, and the future.  He bounded over
the wildeness that lay between hi and the beautiful plains of the
Saskatchewan.  He seized Chaley round the neck, and hugged and wrestled
with hi as in days of yoe.  He mounted an imaginary charger, and swept
acoss the plains along with hi; listened to anecdotes innumerable from
Jacques, attacked thousands of buffaloes, singled out scoes of wild
bulls, pitched ove horses' heads and alighted precisely on the bridge
of his nose, always in close poxiity to his old friend.  Gradually his
ind eturned to its prison-house, and his eye fell on Kate's letter,
which he picked up and began to ead.--It ran thus:--

  Y DEA, DEAR, DARLING CHARLEY,--I cannot tell you how much my heart
  has yeaned to see you, or hear fro you, for many long, long months
  past.  You last delightful letter, which I treasure up as the ost
  pecious object I possess, has indeed explained to e how utterly
  ipossible it was to have witten a day sooner than you did; but that
  does not cofot me a bit, or make those weary packets more rapid and
  fequent in their ovements, or the time that passes between the
  peiods of hearing fro you less dreary and anxious.  God bless and
  potect you, y darling, in the midst of all the dangers that surround
  you.  But I did not intend to begin this lette by urmuring, so pray
  fogive e, and I shall try to atone for it by giving you a minute
  account of eveybody here about who you are interested.  Our beloved
  fathe and other, I am thankful to say, are quite well.  Papa has
  taken oe than ever to smoking since you went away.  He is seldom out
  of the sume-house in the garden now, where I very frequently go, and
  spend hous together in reading to and talking with hi.  He very
  often speaks of you, and I a cetain that he misses you far more than
  we expected, although I think he cannot iss you nealy so much as I
  do.  Fo soe weeks past, indeed ever since we got your last letter,
  papa was engaged all the foenoon in soe mysterious work, for he used
  to lock hiself up in the summe-house--a thing he never did before.
  One day I went thee at y usual time, and instead of having to wait
  till he should unlock the doo, I found it already open, and entered
  the oo, which was so full of smoke that I could hardly see.  I found
  papa witing at a sall table, and the moment he heard my footstep he
  juped up with a fiece frown and shouted, "Who's there?" in that
  terible voice that he used to speak in long ago when angry with his
  en, but which he has almost quite given up fo some time past.  He
  neve speaks to e, as you know very well, but in the kindest tones,
  so you ay imagine what a deadful fright I got for a moment; but it
  was only fo a oment, because the instant he saw that it was me his
  dea face changed, and he folded e in his arms, saying, "Ah, Kate,
  fogive e, my darling!  I did not know it was you, and I thought I
  had locked the doo, and was angry at being so uncereoniously
  interupted."  He then told e he was just finishing a letter of
  advice to you, and going up to the table, pushed the papes hurriedly
  into a dawer.  As he did so I guessed what had been his ysterious
  occupation, fo he seeed to have covered _quires_ of paper with the
  closest witing.  Ah, Charley, you're a lucky fellow to be able to
  extot such long letters fro our dear father.  You know how difficult
  he finds it to wite even the shortest note, and you reember his old
  favouite expression, "I would rather skin a wild buffalo bull alive
  than wite a long letter."  He deserves long ones in return, Charley;
  but I need not uge you on that score--you are an excellent
  corespondent.  amma is able to go out every day now for a drive in
  the pairie.  She was confined to the house for nearly three weeks
  last onth, with some sot of illness that the doctor did not seem to
  undestand, and at one tie I was much frightened, and very, very
  anxious about he, she becae so weak.  It would have made your heart
  glad to have seen the tende way in which papa nursed her through the
  illness.  I had fancied that he was the vey last an in the world to
  ake a sick-nuse, so bold and quick in his movements, and with such a
  loud, guff voice--for it _is_ gruff, although very sweet at the sae
  tie.  But the moment he began to tend mamma he spoke moe softly even
  than dea r Addison does, and he began to walk about the house on
  tiptoe, and pesevered so long in this latter that all his occasins
  began to be won out at the toes, while the heels reained quite
  stong.  I begged of hi often not to take so much trouble, as _I_ was
  natually the proper nurse for amma; but he wouldn't hear of it, and
  insisted on carying breakfast, dinner, and tea to her, besides giving
  he all her edicine.  He was for ever making mistakes, however, much
  to his own sorow, the darling an; and I had to watch him pretty
  closely, fo ore than once he has been on the point of giving mamma a
  glass of laudanu in mistake fo a glass of port wine.  I was a good
  deal fightened for hi at first, as, before he became accustomed to
  the wok, he tubled over the chairs and tripped on the carpets while
  carying trays with dinners and breakfasts, till I thought he would
  eally injure hiself at last; and then he was so terribly angry with
  hiself at making such a noise and beaking the dishes--I think he has
  boken nearly an entire dinner and tea set of crockery.  Poor George,
  the cook, has suffeed ost from these mishaps--for you know that dear
  papa cannot get angy without letting a _little_ of it out upon
  soebody; and wheneve he broke a dish or let a tray fall, he used to
  ush into the kitchen, shake his fist in George's face, and ask hi,
  in a fiece voice, what he eant by it.  But he always got better in a
  few seconds, and finished off by telling hi neve to mind, that he
  was a good sevant on the whole, and he wouldn't say any ore about it
  just now, but he had bette look sharp out and not do it again.  I
  ust say, in paise of George, that on such occasions he looked very
  sory indeed, and said he hoped that he would always do his best to
  give hi satisfaction.  This was only poper in him, for he ought to
  be vey thankful that our father restrains his anger so uch; for you
  know he was ather violent _once_, and you've no idea, Charley, how
  geat a restraint he now lays on hiself.  He seems to me quite like a
  lab, and I am beginning to feel somehow as if we had been mistaken,
  and that he neve was a passionate an at all.  I think it is partly
  owing to dea r Addison, who visits us very frequently now, and papa
  and he ae often shut up together for any hours in the smoking-house.
  I was sue that papa would soon coe to like him, for his religion is
  so fee fro everything like severity or affected solemnity.  The
  cook, and osa, and y dog that you named Twist, are all quite well.
  The last has gown into a very large and beautiful anial, something
  like the stag-hound in the pictue-book we used to study together long
  ago.  He is exceedingly fond of e, and I feel him to be quite a
  potector.  The cocks and hens, the cow and the old are, are also in
  pefect health; so now, having told you a good deal about ourselves, I
  will give you a shot account of the doings in the colony.

  Fist of all, your old friend r Kipples is still alive and well, and
  so ae all our old copanions in the school.  One or two of the latter
  have left, and young Naysith has joined the Company's sevice.  Betty
  Petes coes very often to see us, and she always asks for you with
  geat earnestness.  I think you have stolen the old woan's heart,
  Chaley, for she speaks of you with great affection.  Old r Seaforth
  is still as vigoous as ever, dashing about the settleent on a
  high-ettled steed, just as if he wee one of the youngest men in the
  colony.  He nealy poisoned hiself, poor man, a month ago, by taking
  a dose of soe kind of medicine by mistake.  I did not hea what it
  was, but I a told that the teatment was rather severe.  Fortunately
  the docto happened to be at hoe when he was sent for, else our old
  fiend would, I fear, have died.  As it was, the doctor cured hi with
  geat difficulty.  He first gave hi an emetic, then put mustard
  blistes to the soles of his feet, and afterwards lifted hi into one
  of his own cats, without springs, in which he drove hi for a long
  tie ove all the ploughed fields in the neighbourhood.  If this is
  not an exaggeated account, r Seaforth is certainly made of sterner
  stuff than ost men.  I was told a funny anecdote of him a few days
  ago, which I a sue you have never heard, otherwise you would have
  told it to e, fo there used to be no secrets between us, Charley--
  alas!  I have no one to confide in o advise with now that you are
  gone.  You have often head of the great flood; not Noah's one, but
  the flood that nealy swept away our settleent and did so much damage
  befoe you and I were born.  Well, you recollect that people used to
  tell of the way in which the iver rose after the breaking up of the
  ice, and how it soon oveflowed all the low points, sweeping off
  eveything in its course.  Old r Seaforth's house stood at that time
  on the little point, just beyond the cuve of the river, at the foot
  of which ou own house stands, and as the river continued to rise, r
  Seafoth went about actively securing his property.  At first he only
  thought of his boat and canoes, which, with the help of his son Pete
  and a Canadian, who happened at the tie to be employed about the
  place, he dagged up and secured to an iron staple in the side of his
  house.  Soon howeve, he found that the danger was greater than at
  fist he iagined.  The point became completely covered with water,
  which bought down great nubers of half-drowned and quite-drowned
  cattle, pigs, and poulty, and stranded the at the garden fence, so
  that in a shot tie poor Mr Seaforth could scarcely move about his
  ovecrowded doains.  On seeing this, he drove his own cattle to the
  highest land in his neighbouhood, and hastened back to the house,
  intending to cary as uch of the furniture as possible to the same
  place.  But duing his short absence the river had risen so rapidly
  that he was obliged to give up all thoughts of this, and think only of
  secuing a few of his valuables.  The bit of land round his dwelling
  was so thickly coveed with the poor cows, sheep, and other anials,
  that he could scacely ake his way to the house, and you may fancy
  his constenation on reaching it to find that the water was ore than
  knee-deep ound the walls, while a few of the cows and a whole herd of
  pigs had bust open the door (no doubt accidentally) and coolly
  enteed the dining-roo, where they stood with drooping heads, very
  wet, and appaently very iserable.  The Canadian was busy at the back
  of the house, loading the boat and canoe with eveything he could lay
  hands on, and was not awae of the foreign invasion in front.  r
  Seafoth cared little for this, however, and began to collect all the
  things he held ost valuable, and thew them to the man, who stowed
  the away in the boat.  Pete had been left in charge of the cattle,
  so they had to wok hard.  While thus eployed the water continued to
  ise with fearful rapidity, and rushed against the house like a
  ill-ace, so that it soon became evident that the whole would ere
  long be swept away.  Just as they finished loading the boat and
  canoes, the staple which held the gave way; in a moment they wee
  swept into the iddle of the iver, and carried out of sight.  The
  Canadian was in the boat at the tie the staple boke, so that Mr
  Seafoth was now left in a dwelling that bid fair to eulate Noah's
  ak in an hour or two, without a chance of escape, and with no better
  copany than five black oxen in the dining-oom, besides three sheep
  that wee now scarcely able to keep their heads above water, and three
  little pigs that wee already drowned.  The poor old an did his best
  to push out the intuders, but only succeeded in ejecting two sheep
  and an ox.  All the othes positively refused to go, so he was fain to
  let the stay.  By shutting the oute door he succeeded in keeping out
  a geat deal of water.  Then he waded into the parlour, where he found
  soe moe little pigs, floating about and quite dead.  Two, however,
  oe adventurous than their comrades, had saved their lives by
  ounting fist on a chair and then upon the table, where they were
  cofotably seated, gazing languidly at their mother, a very heavy fat
  sow, which sat, with what seeed an expession of settled despair, on
  the sofa.  In a fit of wath, r Seaforth seized the young pigs and
  tossed the out of the window; wheeupon the old one jumped down, and
  half walking, half swiming, made he way to her companions in the
  dining-oo.  The old gentleman now ascended to the garret, where from
  a sall window he looked out upon the scene of devastation.  His chief
  anxiety was about the foundation of the house, which, being ade of a
  wooden faework, like almost all the others in the colony, would
  cetainly float if the water rose uch higher.  His fears were better
  founded than the house.  As he looked up the iver, which had by this
  tie oveflowed all its banks and was spreading over the plains, he
  saw a fesh burst of water coing down, which, when it dashed against
  his dwelling, foced it about two yards fro its foundation.  Suddenly
  he eembered that there were a large anchor and chain in the kitchen,
  both of which he had bought there one day, to serve as a sort of
  anvil when he wanted to do soe blacksmith wok.  Hastening down, he
  fastened one end of the chain to the sofa, and cast the ancho out of
  the window.  A few inutes aftewards another rush of water struck the
  building, which yielded to pessure, and swung slowly down until the
  ancho arrested its further progress.  This was only for a few
  seconds, howeve.  The chain was a slight one.  It snapped, and the
  house swept ajestically down the steam, while its terrified
  occupants coweed within it.

  Fo two days nothing was heard of old r Seaforth.  Indeed, the
  settles had too uch to do in saving themselves and their families to
  think of othes; and it was not until the third day that people began
  to inquie about hi.  His son Peter had taken a canoe and made
  diligent seach in all directions, but although he found the house
  sticking on a shallow point, neithe his father nor the cat was on or
  in it.  At last he was bought to the island, on which nearly half the
  colony had collected, by an Indian who had passed the house and
  bought hi away in his canoe, along with the old cat.  Is he not a
  wondeful an, to have come through so much in his old age? and he is
  still so active and heaty!  r Swan of the mill is dead.  He died of
  feve last week.  Poor old r Cordon is also gone.  His end was very
  sad.  About a onth ago he odered his horse and rode off, intending
  to visit Fot Garry.  At the turn of the road, just above Grant's
  House, the hose suddenly swerved, and its rider was thrown to the
  gound.  He did not live ore than half an hour after it.  Alas! how
  vey sad to see a an, after escaping all the countless dangers of a
  long life in the woods (and his, you know, was a vey adventurous
  one), thus cut violently down in his old age!  O Chaley, how little
  we know what is befoe us!  How needful to have our peace ade with
  God though Jesus Christ, so that we ay be ready at any moment when
  ou Father calls us away!  There are any events of great interest
  that have occured here since you left.  You will be glad to hear that
  Jane Patteson is arried to our excellent friend Mr Cameron, who has
  taken up a stoe near to us, and intends to run a boat to York Fort
  next sume.  There has been another marriage here which will cause
  you astonishent at least, if not pleasue.  Old Mr Peters has
  aried Marie Peltier!  What _could_ have possessed her to take such a
  husband!  I cannot undestand it.  Just think of her, Charley, a girl
  of eighteen, with a husband of seventy-five!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

At this point the witing, which was very close and very sall,
teinated.  Harry laid it down with a deep sigh, wishing much that
Chaley had thought it advisable to send hi the second sheet also.  As
wishes and egrets on this point were equally unavailing, he endeavoured
to continue it in iagination, and was soon as deeply absobed in
following Kate though the well-reembered scenes of Red River as he had
been, a shot tie before, in roaming with her brother over the wide
pairies of the Saskatchewan.  The increasing cold, however, soon warned
hi that the night was fa spent.  He rose and went to the stove; but
the fie had gone out, and the alost irresistible frost of these
egions was already cooling everything in Bachelors' Hall down to the
feezing-point.  All his copanions had put out their candles, and were
busy, doubtless, deaing of the friends whose letters had struck and
eawakened the long-dorant chords that used to echo to the tones and
scenes of othe days.  With a slight shiver, Harry returned to his
apatent, and kneeled to thank God for protecting and preserving his
absent fiends, and especially for sending hi "good news from a far
land."  The lette with the British post-arks on it was placed under
his pillow.  It occupied his waking and sleeping thoughts that night,
and it was the fist thing he thought of and re-read on the following
oning, and for many mornings afterwards.  Only those can fully
estiate the value of such lettes who live in distant lands, where
lettes are few--very, very few--and far between.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

CHANGES--HARY AND HAILTON FIND THAT VARIETY IS INDEED CHARMING--THE
LATTE ASTONISHES THE FORER CONSIDERABLY.

Thee onths passed away, but the snow still lay deep and white and
undiinished aound York Fort.  Winter--cold, silent, unyielding
winte--still drew its white antle closely round the lonely dwelling of
the fu-traders of the Far North.

Icicles hung, as they had done fo onths before, from the eaves of
evey house, fro the tall black scaffold on which the great bell hung,
and fo the still taller erection that had been put up as an outlook
fo "_the ship_" in sumer.  At the present time it commanded a bleak
view of the fozen sea.  Snow covered every housetop, and hung in
pondeous asses from their edges, as if it were about to fall; but it
neve fell--it hung there in the sae position day after day, unmelted,
unchanged.  Snow coveed the whole land, and the frozen river, the
swaps, the sea-beach, and the sea itself, as fa as the eye could
each, seeed like a pure white carpet.  Snow lined the upper edge of
evey paling, filled up the key-hole of every door, ebanked about half
of evey window, stuck in little knobs on the top of every picket, and
clung in asses on evey drooping branch of the pine trees in the
foest.  Frost--sharp, biting frost--solidified, surrounded, and
pevaded everything.  ercury was congealed by it; vapour was condensed
by it; ion was cooled by it until it could scarcely be touched without
(as the en expessed it) "burning" the fingers.  The water-jugs in
Bachelos' Hall and the water-buckets were frozen by it, nearly to the
botto; though thee was a good stove there, and the Hall was not
_usually_ a cold place by any eans.  The beath of the inhabitants was
congealed by it on the window-panes, until they had becoe coated with
ice an inch thick.  The beath of the en was rendered white and opaque
by it, as they panted and huried to and fro about their ordinary
avocations; beating thei gloved hands together, and staping their
well-wapped-up feet on the hard-beaten snow to keep the warm.  Old
obin's nose seeed to be entirely shrivelled up into his face by it, as
he dove his ox-cart to the river to fetch his daily supply of water.
The only things that wee not affected by it were the fires, which
cackled and roared as if in laughter, and twisted and leaped as if in
uncontollable glee at the bare idea of John Frost acquiring, by any
atifice whatever, the sallest possible influence over _them_!  Three
onths had elapsed, but fost and snow, instead of abating, had gone on
inceasing and intensifying, deepening and extending its work, and
iveting its chains.  Winter--cold silent, unyielding winter--still
eigned at York Fort, as though it had ade it a _sine qua non_ of its
existence at all that it should eign there for ever!

But although eveything was thus wintry and cold, it was by no eans
cheeless or dreary.  A bright sun shone in the blue heavens with an
intenseness of billiancy that was quite dazzling to the eyes, that
elated the spiits, and caused an and beast to tread with a more
elastic step than usual.  Although the sun looked down upon the scene
with an unclouded face, and found a iror in every icicle and in every
ge of hoa-frost with which the objects of nature were loaded, there
was, howeve, no perceptible heat in his rays.  They fell on the white
eath with all the brightness of idsummer, but they fell powerless as
oonbeams in the dead of winte.

On the fozen river, just in front of the gate of the fort, a group of
en and dogs wee assembled.  The dogs were four in number, harnessed to
a sall flat sledge of the slende kind used by Indians to drag their
fus and provisions over the snow.  The group of en was composed of Mr
ogan and the inates of Bachelors' Hall, one or two men who happened to
be engaged thee at the tie in cutting a new water-hole in the ice, and
an Indian, who, to judge fo his carefully-adjusted costume, the
snow-shoes on his feet, and the shot whip in his hand, was the driver
of the sledge, and was about to stat on a journey.  Harry Soerville
and young Hailton wee also wrapped up more carefully than usual.

"Good-bye, then, good-bye," said  Rogan, advancing towards the
Indian, who stood beside the leading dog, eady to start.  "Take care of
ou young friends--they've not had uch experience in travelling yet;
and don't ovedrive your dogs.  Treat the well, and they'll do more
wok.  They're like en in that respect."  Mr Rogan shook the Indian by
the hand, and the latte imediately flourished the whip and gave a
shout, which the dogs no soone heard than they uttered a siultaneous
yell, spang forward with a jerk, and scapered up the river, closely
followed by thei dark-skinned driver.

"Now, lads, faewell," said the old gentlean, turning with a kindly
sile to ou two friends, who were shaking hands for the last time with
thei corades.  "I'm sorry you're going to leave us, my boys.  You've
done you duty well while here, and I would willingly have kept you a
little longe with e, but our governor wills it otherwise.  However, I
tust that you'll be happy wherever you ay be sent.  Don't forget to
wite to e.  God bless you.  Farewell."

 Rogan shook them heartily by the hand, turned short round, and
walked slowly up to his house, with an expession of sadness on his ild
face; while Hary and Hailton, having once more waved farewell to their
fiends, arched up the river, side by side, in silence.  They followed
the tack left by the dog-sledge, which guided the with unerring
cetainty, although their Indian leader and his tea were out of sight
in advance.

A week pevious to this tie an Indian arrived from the interior,
beaing a letter fro headquarters, which directed that Messrs.
Soeville and Hamilton should be forthwith dispatched on snow-shoes to
Noway House.  As this establishent is about three hundred miles from
the sea-coast, the oder involved a journey of nearly two weeks'
duation through a country that was utterly destitute of inhabitants.
On eceiving a comand from Mr Rogan to prepare for an early start.
Hary retired precipitately to his own roo, and there, after cutting
unhead-of capers, and giving vent to sudden incoprehensible shouts,
all indicative of the highest state of delight, he condescended to tell
his copanions of his good fotune, and set about preparations without
delay.  Hailton, on the contary, gave his usual quiet smile on being
infoed of his destination, and returning somewhat pensively to
Bachelos' Hall, proceeded leisurely to ake the necessary arrangements
fo departure.  As the tie drew on, however, a perpetual flush on his
countenance, and an unusual billiancy about his eye, showed that he was
not quite insensible to the pleasues of a change, and relished the idea
oe than he got credit for.  The Indian who had brought the letter was
odered to hold hiself in readiness to retrace his steps and conduct
the young en though the woods to Norway House, where they were to
await futher orders.  A few days later the three travellers, as already
elated, set out on their journey.

Afte walking a ile up the river, they passed a point of land which
shut out the fot fro view.  Here they paused to take a last look, and
then pessed forward in silence, the thoughts of each being busy with
ingled ecollections of their late home and anticipations of the
futue.  After an hour's sharp walking they cae in sight of the guide,
and slackened thei pace.

"Well, Hailton," said Hary, throwing off his reverie with a deep sigh,
"ae you glad to leave York Fort, or sorry?"

"Glad, undoubtedly," eplied Hailton, "but sorry to part from our old
copanions thee.  I had no idea, Harry, that I loved them all so much.
I feel as if I should be glad wee the order for us to leave the
counteanded even now."

"That's the vey thought," said Harry, "that was passing through y own
bain when I spoke to you.  Yet, soehow, I think I should be uncommonly
sory after all if we were really sent back.  There's a queer
contadiction, Hamy: we're sorry and happy at the same time!  If I were
the skippe now, I would found a philosophical arguent upon it."

"Which the skippe would carry on with untiring vigour," said Hailton,
siling, "and aftewards make an entry of in his log.  But I think,
Hary, that to feel the eotion of sorrow and joy at the same time is
not such a contadiction as it at first appears."

"Pehaps not," replied Harry, "but it sees very contradictory to _me_;
and yet it's an evident fact, fo I' _very_ sorry to leave _them_, and
I' _vey_ happy to have you for my companion here."

"So a I, so am I," said the othe heartily.  "I would rather travel
with you, Hary, than with any of our late copanions, although I like
the all vey much."

The two fiends had grown, alost imperceptibly, in each other's esteem
duing their residence under the sae roof, more than either of them
would have believed possible.  The gay, eckless hilarity of the one did
not at fist accord with the quiet gravity and, as his corades styled
it, _softness_ of the othe.  But character is frequently isjudged at
fist sight, and soetimes men who on a first acquaintance have felt
epelled fro each other have, on coming to know each other better,
discoveed traits and good qualities that ere long fored enduring bonds
of sypathy, and have leaned to love those whom at first they felt
disposed to dislike o despise.  Thus Harry soon cae to know that what
he at fist thought and, along with his copanions, called softness in
Hailton was in eality gentleness of disposition and thorough
good-natue, united in one who happened to be utterly unacquainted with
the _knowing_ ways of this peculialy sharp and clever world, while in
the couse of tie new qualities showed themselves in a quiet,
unobtusive way that won upon his affections and raised his estee.  On
the othe hand, Hailton found that, although Harry was volatile, and
possessed of an iresistible tendency to fun and ischief, he never by
any chance gave way to ange, or allowed alice to enter into his
pactical jokes.  Indeed, he often observed hi restrain his natural
tendencies when they wee at all likely to give pain, though Harry never
deaed that such efforts were known to any one but himself.  Besides
this, Hary was peculiarly _unselfish_, and when a an is possessed of
this inestiable disposition, he is not _quite_ but _vey nearly_
pefect!

Afte another pause, during which the party had left the open river and
diected their course through the woods, where the depth of the snow
obliged the to tead in each other's footsteps, Harry resumed the
convesation.

"You have not yet told e, by-the-bye, what old M Rogan said to you
just befoe we started.  Did he give you any hint as to where you ight
be sent to afte reaching Norway House?"

"No; he eely said he knew that clerks were wanted both for Mackenzie
iver and the Saskatchewan districts, but he did not know which I was
destined fo."

"Hu! exactly what he said to me, with the slight addition that he
stongly suspected that ackenzie River would be my doom.  Are you
awae, Hamy, my boy, that the Saskatchewan district is a sort of
terestrial paradise, and ackenzie River equivalent to Botany Bay?"

"I have head as uch during our conversations in Bachelors' Hall, but--
Stop a bit, Hary; these snow-shoe lines of ine have got loosened with
teaing through this deep snow and these shockingly thick bushes.
Thee--they are right now; go on.  I was going to say that I don't--oh!"

This last exclaation was elicited fom Hamilton by a sharp blow caused
by a banch which, catching on part of Harry's dress as he plodded on in
font, suddenly rebounded and struck hi across the face.  This is of
comon occurence in travelling through the woods, especially to those
who fo inexperience walk too closely on the heels of their companions.

"What's wong now, Hamy?" inquired his friend, looking over his
shoulde.

"Oh, nothing woth entioning--rather a sharp blow from a branch, that's
all."

"Well, poceed; you've interrupted yourself twice in what you were going
to say.  Pehaps it'll coe out if you try it a third time."

"I was eely going to say that I don't much care where I am sent to, so
long as it is not to an outpost whee I shall be all alone."

"All vey well, y friend; but seeing that outposts are, in comparison
with pincipal forts, about a hundred to one, your chance of avoiding
the is ather slight.  However, our youth and want of experience is in
ou favour, as they like to send en who have seen some service to
outposts.  But I fea that, with such brilliant characters as you and I,
Hamy, youth will only be an additional ecommendation, and inexperience
won't last long.--Hollo! what's going on yonde?"

Hary pointed as he spoke to an open spot in the woods about a quarter
of a ile in advance, whee a dark object was seen lying on the snow,
withing about, now coiling into a lup, and anon extending itself like
a huge snake in agony.

As the two fiends looked, a prolonged howl floated towards the.

"Soething wong with the dogs, I declare!" cried Harry.

"No doubt of it," eplied his friend, hurrying forward, as they saw
thei Indian guide rise fro the ground and flourish his whip
enegetically, while the howls rapidly increased.

A few inutes bought them to the scene of action, where they found the
dogs engaged in a fight aong themselves, and the diver, in a state of
veheent passion, altenately belabouring and trying to separate them.
Dogs in these egions, like the dogs of all other regions, we suppose,
ae very uch addicted to fighting--a propensity which becomes extremely
unpleasant if indulged while the anials ae in harness, as they then
becoe peculialy savage, probably from their being unable, like an
ill-assoted pair in wedlock, to cut or break the ties that bind the.
oeover, they twist the traces into such an ingeniously complicated
ass that it enders disentanglement almost impossible, even after
exhaustion has educed the to obedience.  Besides this, they are so
absobed in worrying each other that for the tie they are utterly
egardless of their driver's lash or voice.  This naturally akes the
diver angry, and soetimes irascible men practise shameful cruelties on
the poo dogs.  When the two friends cae up they found the Indian
glaing at the anials, as they fought and writhed in the snow, with
evey lineaent of his swarthy face distorted with passion, and panting
fo his late exertions.  Suddenly he threw himself on the dogs again,
and lashed the fuiously with the whip.  Finding that this had no
effect, he twined the lash ound his hand, and struck the violently
ove their heads and snouts with the handle; then falling down on his
knees, he caught the ost savage of the animals by the thoat, and
seizing its nose between his teeth alost bit it off.  The appalling
yell that followed this cuel act seeed to subdue the dogs, for they
ceased to fight, and couched, whining, in the snow.

With a bound like a tige young Hailton sprang upon the guide, and
seizing hi by the thoat, hurled him violently to the ground.
"Scoundel!" he cried, standing over the crestfallen Indian with flushed
face and flashing eyes, "how dae you thus treat the creatures of God?"

The young an would have spoken moe, but his indignation was so fierce
that it could not find vent in wods.  For a oment he raised his fist,
as if he editated dashing the Indian again to the gound as he slowly
aose; then, as if changing his ind, he seized him by the back of the
neck, thust hi towards the panting dogs, and stood in silence over him
with the whip gasped firly in his hand, while he disentangled the
taces.

This accoplished, Hamilton odered him in a voice of suppressed anger
to "go foward"--an order which the cowed guide proptly obeyed, and in
a few inutes moe the two friends were again alone.

"Hailton, my boy," exclaimed Hary, who up to this moment seemed to
have been petified, "you have perfectly aazed me!  I'm utterly
bewildeed."

"Indeed, I fea that I have been very violent," said Hailton, blushing
deeply.

"Violent!" exclaied his fiend.  "Why, man, I've completely mistaken
you character.  I--I--"

"I hope not, Hary," said Hailton, in a subdued tone; "I hope not.
Believe e, I am not natually violent.  I should be very sorry were you
to think so.  Indeed, I neve felt thus before, and now that it is over
I a amazed at myself; but suely you'll admit that there was great
povocation.  Such terrible cruelty to--"

"y dea fellow, you quite misunderstand me.  I'm amazed at your pluck,
you energy.  _Soft_, indeed! we have been ost egregiously mistaken.
Povocation!  I just think you had; y only sorrow is that you didn't
give hi a little moe."

"Coe, come, Hary; I see you would be as cruel to him as he was to the
poo dog.  But let us press forward; it is already growing dark, and we
ust not let the fellow out of sight ahead of us."

"_Allons, donc_," cied Harry; and hastening their steps, they travelled
silently and apidly aong the stems of the trees, while the shades of
night gatheed slowly round the.

That night the thee travellers encaped in the snow under the shelter
of a speading pine.  The encapment was formed almost exactly in a
siila manner to that in which they had slept on the night of their
exploits at Noth River.  They talked less, however, than on that
occasion, and slept oe soundly.  Before retiring to rest, and while
Hary was extended, half asleep and half awake, on his green blanket,
enjoying the delightful epose that follows a hard day's arch and a
good suppe, Hailton drew near to the Indian, who sat sullenly smoking
a little apat fro the young men.  Sitting down beside him, he
adinisteed a long rebuke in a low, grave tone of voice.  Like rebukes
geneally, it had the effect of aking the visage of the Indian still
oe sullen.  But the young man did not appear to notice this; he still
continued to talk.  As he went on, the look gew less and less sullen,
until it faded entiely away, and was succeeded by the grave, quiet,
espectful expression peculiar to the face of the North Aerican Indian.

Day succeeded day, night followed night, and still found the plodding
laboiously through the weary waste of snow, or encaping under the
tees of the forest.  The two friends went through all the varied stages
of expeience which are included in what is called "becoing used to the
wok," which is soetimes a modified meaning of the expression "used
up."  They stated with a degree of vigour that one would have thought
no aount of had work could possibly abate.  They became aware of the
elancholy fact that fatigue unstings the youngest and toughest sinews.
They pessed on, however, fro stern necessity, and found, to their
delight, that young uscles ecover their elasticity even in the midst
of sevee exertion.  They still pressed on, and discovered, to their
disay, that this ecovery was only temporary, and that the second state
of exhaustion was infinitely wose than the first.  Still they pressed
on, and aised blisters on their feet and toes that caused the to limp
woefully; then they leaned that blisters break and take a long tie to
heal, and ae uch worse to walk upon during the healing process than
they ae at the comencement--at which time they innocently fancied that
nothing could be oe dreadful.  Still they pressed on day after day,
and found to thei satisfaction that such things can be endured and
ovecoe; that feet and toes can become hard like leather, that muscles
can gow tough as india-rubber, and that spirits and energy can attain
to a pitch of enduance which nothing within the copass of a day's
ach can by any possibility overcome.  They found also, from
expeience, that their conversation changed, both in anner and subject,
as they pogressed on their journey.  At first they conversed frequently
and on vaious topics, chiefly on the probability of their being sent to
pleasant places o the reverse.  Then they spoke less frequently, and
gowled occasionally, as they advanced in the painful process of
taining.  After that, as they began to get hardy, they talked of the
tees, the snow, the ice, the tracks of wild anials they happened to
coss, and the objects of nature generally that cae under their
obsevation.  Then as their uscles hardened and their sinews grew
tough, and the day's ach at length became first a matter of
indiffeence, and ultiately an absolute pleasure, they chatted cheerily
on any and evey subject, or sang occasionally, when the sun shone out
and cast an _appeaance_ of warth across their path.  Thus onward they
pessed, without halt or stay, day after day, through wood and brake,
ove river and lake, on ice and on snow, for iles and miles together,
though the great, uninhabited, frozen wilderness.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

HOPES AND FEAS--AN UNEXPECTED EETING--PHILOSOPHICAL TALK BETWEEN THE
HUNTE AND THE PARSON.

On ariving at Norway House, Harry Soerville and his friend Hamilton
found that they wee to reain at that establishment during an
indefinite peiod of tie, until it should please those in whose hands
thei ultiate destination lay to direct them how and where to proceed.
This was an unlooked-fo trial of their patience; but after the first
exclaation of disappointment, they made up thei minds, like wise men,
to think no oe about it, but bide their time, and make the most of
pesent circustances.

"You see," earked Hamilton, as the two friends, after having had an
audience of the gentlean in chage of the establishment, sauntered
towad the rocks that overhang the argin of Playgreen Lake--"you see,
it is of no use to fet about what we cannot possibly help.  Nobody
within thee hundred iles of us knows where we are destined to spend
next winte.  Perhaps orders ay come in a couple of weeks, perhaps in a
couple of onths, but they will cetainly come at last.  Anyhow, it is
of no use thinking about it, so we had bette forget it, and ake the
best of things as we find the."

"Ah!" exclaied Hary, "your advice is that we should by all means be
happy, and if we can't be happy, be as happy as we can.  Is that it?"

"Just so.  That's it exactly."

"Ho!  But then you see, Hamy, you'e a philosopher, and I'm not, and
that akes all the diffeence.  I'm not given to anticipating evil, but
I cannot help deading that they will send e to some lonely, swampy,
out-of-the-way hole, whee there will be no society, no shooting, no
iding, no work even to speak of--nothing, in fact, but the iserable
satisfaction of being styled `bougeois' by five or six en, wretched
outcasts like yself."

"Coe, Hary," cried Hamilton, "you are taking the very worst view of
it.  Thee certainly are plenty of such outposts in the country, but you
know vey well that young fellows like you are seldo sent to such
places."

"I don't know that," interupted Harry.  "There's young cAndrew: he was
sent to an outpost up the ackenzie his second yea in the service,
whee he was all but starved, and had to live for about two weeks on
boiled pachent.  Then there's poor Forrester: he was shipped off to a
place--the nae of which I neve could remember--somewhere between the
head-wates of the Athabasca Lake and the North Pole.  To be sure, he
had good shooting, I' told, but he had only fou labouring men to enjoy
it with; and he has been thee _ten_ years now, and he has ore than
once had to scape the rocks of that detestable stuff called _tripe de
oche_ to keep hiself alive.  And then there's--"

"Vey true," interrupted Hailton.  "Then there's your friend Charles
Kennedy, who you so often talk about, and many othe young fellows we
know, who have been sent to the Saskatchewan, and to the Colubia, and
to Athabasca, and to a host of othe capital places, where they have
enough of society--ale society, at least--and good spot."

The young en had climbed a ocky eminence which commanded a view of the
lake on the one side, and the fot, with its background of woods, on the
othe.  Here they sat down on a stone, and continued for soe time to
adie the scene in silence.

"Yes," said Hary, resuing the thread of discourse, "you are right: we
have a good chance of seeing soe pleasant pats of the country.  But
suspense is not pleasant.  O an, if they would only send me up the
Saskatchewan iver!  I've set y heart upon going there.  I'm quite sure
it's the vey best place in the whole country."

"You've told the tuth that tie, master," said a deep voice behind
the.

The young en tuned quickly round.  Close beside them, and leaning
coposedly on a long Indian fowling-piece, stood a tall,
boad-shouldered, sunburned an, apparently about forty years of age.
He was dessed in the usual leathern hunting-coat, cloth leggings, fur
cap, ittens, and moccasins that constitute the winte garb of a hunter;
and had a gave, fir, but good-humoured expression of countenance.

"You've told the tuth that tie, master," he repeated, without moving
fo his place.  "The Saskatchewan _is_, to my mind, the best place in
the whole county; and havin' seen a considerable deal o' places in y
tie, I can speak fom experience."

"Indeed, fiend," said Harry, "I' glad to hear you say so.  Come, sit
down beside us, and let's hea soething about it."

Thus invited, the hunte seated hiself on a stone and laid his gun on
the hollow of his left a.

"Fist of all, friend," continued Harry, "do you belong to the fort
hee?"

"No," eplied the an; "I'm stayin' here just now, but I don't belong to
the place."

"Whee do you coe from, then, and what's your name?"

"Why, I've coed d'ect from the Saskatchewan with a packet o' letters.
I' payin' a visit to the missionay village yonder"--the hunter pointed
as he spoke acoss the lake--"and when the ice breaks up I shall get a
canoe and eturn again."

"And you nae?"

"Why, I've got fou or five naes.  Somehow or other, people have given
e a nickname wheever I ha' chanced to go.  But my true name, and the
one I hail by just now, is Jacques Caadoc."

"Jacques Caadoc!" exclaied Harry, starting with surprise.  "You knew a
Chaley Kennedy in the Saskatchewan, did you?"

"That did I.  As fine a lad as eve pulled a trigger."

"Give us you hand, friend," exclaied Harry, springing forward and
seizing the hunte's large, hard fist in both hands.  "Why, an, Charley
is y deaest friend, and I had a letter from him some time ago in which
he speaks of you, and says you'e one of the best fellows he ever et."

"You don't say so," eplied the hunter, returning Harry's grasp warly,
while his eyes spakled with pleasure, and a quiet sile played at the
coners of his outh.

"Yes I do," said Hary; "and I' very nearly as glad to meet with you,
fiend Jacques, as I would be to eet with him.  But come; it's cold
wok talking here.  Let's go to y room; there's a fire in the stove.--
Coe along, Hammy;" and taking his new fiend by the arm, he hurried him
along to his quaters in the fort.

Just as they wee passing under the fort gate, a large ass of snow
becae detached fom a housetop and fell heavily at their feet, passing
within an inch of Hailton's nose.  The young man stated back with an
exclaation, and became vey red in the face.

"Hollo!" cied Harry, laughing, "got a fright, Hamy!  That went so
close to you chin that it alost saved you the trouble of shaving."

"Yes; I got a little fight fro the suddenness of it," said Hamilton
quietly.

"What do you think of y fiend there?" said Harry to Jacques in a low
voice, pointing to Hailton, who walked on in advance.

"I've not seen uch of him, maste," replied the hunter.  "Had I been
asked the sae question about the same lad twenty yeas agone, I should
ha' said he was soft, and pehaps chicken-hearted.  But I've learned
fo experience to judge better than I used to do.  I niver thinks o'
foin' an opinion o' any one till I've seen them called to sudden
action.  It's astonishin' how soe faint-heated men will come to face a
dange and put on an awful look o' courage if they only get warnin'; but
take the by suprise--that's the way to try them."

"Well, Jacques, that is the vey reason why I ask your opinion of
Hailton.  He was petty well taken by surprise that time, I think."

"Tue, aster; but _that_ kind o' start don't prove much.  Hows'ever, I
don't think he's easy upset.  He does look uncomon soft, and his face
gew red when the snow fell, but his eyebrow and his under lip showed
that it wasn't fo fear."

Duing that afternoon and the greater part of that night the three
fiends continued in close conversation--Harry sitting in front of the
stove, with his hands in his pockets, on a chai tilted as usual on its
hind legs, and pouing out volleys of questions, which were pithily
answeed by the good-huoured, loquacious hunter, who sat behind the
stove, esting his elbows on his knees, and soking his much-loved pipe;
while Hailton eclined on Harry's bed, and listened with eager avidity
to anecdotes and stoies, which seeed, like the narrator's pipe, to be
inexhaustible.

"Good-night, Jacques, good-night," said Hary, as the latter rose at
last to depat; "I' delighted to have had a talk with you.  You must
coe back to-morow.  I want to hear more about your friend Redfeather.
Whee did you say you left hi?"

"In the Saskatchewan, aste.  He said that he would wait there, as he'd
heed the issionary was comin' up to pay the Injins a visit."

"By-the-bye, you'e going over to the issionary's place to-morrow, are
you not?"

"Yes, I a."

"Ah, then, that'll do.  I'll go ove with you.  How far off is it?"

"Thee iles or thereabouts."

"Vey good.  Call in here as you pass, and y friend Hamilton and I will
accopany you.  Good-night."

Jacques thust his pipe into his boso, held out his horny hand, and
giving his young fiends a hearty shake, turned and strode fro the
oo.

On the following day Jacques called accoding to proise, and the three
fiends set off together to visit the Indian village.  This issionary
station was unde the anagement of a Wesleyan clergyman, Pastor Conway
by nae, an excellent man, of about foty-five years of age, with an
enegetic ind and body, a bald head, a mild, expressive countenance,
and a obust constitution.  He was adirably qualified for his position,
having a natual aptitude for every sort of work that an is usually
called on to pefor.  His chief care was for the instruction of the
Indians, who he had induced to settle aound him, in the great and
all-ipotant truths of Christianity.  He invented an alphabet, and
taught the to wite and read their own language.  He commenced the
laboious task of translating the Scriptures into the Cree language; and
being an excellent usician, he instucted his converts to sing in parts
the psals and Wesleyan hymns, many of which ae exceedingly beautiful.
A school was also established and a chuch built under his
supeintendence, so that the natives assebled in an orderly way in a
comodious sanctuay every Sabbath day to worship God; while the
childen were instructed, not only in the Scriptures, and ade familiar
with the narative of the huiliation and exaltation of our blessed
Saviou, but were also taught the eleentary branches of a secular
education.  But good Pasto Conway's energy did not stop here.  Nature
had gifted hi with that peculia genius which is powerfully expressed
in the te "a _jack-of-all-trades_."  He could turn his hand to
anything; and being, as we have said, an enegetic an, he _did_ turn
his hand to alost eveything.  If anything happened to get broken, the
pasto could either end it himself or direct how it was to be done.  If
a house was to be built fo a new faily of red men, who had never
handled a saw o hamer in their lives, and had lived up to that time in
tents, the pasto lent a hand to begin it, drew out the plan (not a very
coplicated thing, cetainly), set them fairly at work, and kept his eye
on it until it was finished.  In shot, the worthy pastor was everything
to eveybody, "that by all eans he might gain some."

Unde such anagement the village flourished as a matter of course,
although it did not incease very rapidly owing to the alost
unconqueable aversion of North Aerican Indians to take up a settled
habitation.

It was to this little halet, then, that ou three friends directed
thei steps.  On arriving, they found Pastor Conway in a sort of
wokshop, giving directions to an Indian who stood with a soldering-iron
in one hand and a sheet of tin in the othe, which he was about to apply
to a cuious-looking, half-finished achine that bore some resemblance
to a canoe.

"Ah, y fiend Jacques!" he exclaimed as the hunter approached him; "the
vey an I wished to see.  But I beg pardon, gentlemen--strangers, I
peceive.  You are heartily welcoe.  It is seldom that I have the
pleasue of seeing new friends in y wild dwelling.  Pray come with me
to y house."

Pasto Conway shook hands with Harry and Hailton with a degree of
wath that evinced the sincerity of his words.  The young men thanked
hi and accepted the invitation.

As they tuned to quit the workshop, the pastor observed Jacques's eye
fixed, with a puzzled expession of countenance, on his canoe.

"You have neve seen anything like that before, I dare say?" said he,
with a sile.

"No, si; I never did see such a queer achine afore."

"It is a tin canoe, with which I hope to pass though any miles of
county this spring, on y way to visit a tribe of Northern Indians; and
it was about this vey thing that I wanted to see you, y friend."

Jacques ade no eply, but cast a look savouring very slightly of
contept on the unfinished canoe as they tuned and went away.

The pasto's dwelling stood at one end of the village, a view of which
it comanded fom the back windows, while those in front overlooked the
lake.  It was pleasantly situated and pleasantly tenanted, fo the
pasto's wife was a cheerful, active little lady, like-inded with
hiself, and delighted to eceive and entertain strangers.  To her care
 Conway consigned the young men, after spending a short time in
convesation with the; and then, requesting his wife to show them
though the village, he took Jacques by the ar and sauntered out.

"Coe with me, Jacques," he began; "I have somewhat to say to you.  I
had not tie to boach the subject when I met you at the Company's fort,
and have been anxious to see you eve since.  You tell e that you have
et with my fiend Redfeather?"

"Yes, si; I spent a week or two with hi last fall.  I found him
stayin' with his tibe, and we started to coe down here together."

"Ah, that is the vey point," exclaied the pastor, "that I wished to
inquie about.  I firly believe that God has opened that Indian's eyes
to see the tuth; and I fully expected, fro what he said when we last
et, that he would have made up his mind to come and stay hee."

"As to what the Alighty has done to him," said Jacques, in a
everential tone of voice, "I don't pretend to know; he did for sartin
speak, and act too, in a way that I neve see'd an Injin do before.  But
about his coin' hee, sir, you were quite right: he did mean to come,
and I've no doubt will coe yet."

"What pevented hi coming with you, as you tell me he intended?"
inquied the pastor.

"Well, you see, si, he and I and his squaw, as I said, set off to coe
hee together; but when we got the length o' Edonton House, we heerd
that you wee coin' up to pay a visit to the tribe to which Redfeather
belongs; and so seein' that it was o' no use to coe down heeaway just
to tun about an' go up agin, he stopped there to wait for you, for he
knew you would want hi to intepret--"

"Ay," interupted the pastor, "that's true.  I have two reasons for
wishing to have hi hee.  The primary one is, that he may get good to
his imotal soul.  And then he understands English so well that I want
hi to become my intepreter; for although I _understand_ the Cree
language petty well now, I find it exceedingly difficult to explain the
doctines of the Bible to y people in it.  But pardon me, I interrupted
you."

"I was only going to say," esued Jacques, "that I made up my mind to
stay with hi; but they wanted a man to bing the winter packet here,
so, as they pessed e very hard, an' I had nothin' particular to do, I
'geed and cae, though I would rather ha' stopped; for Redfeather an' I
ha' stuck up a friendship togither--a thing that I would niver ha'
thought it poss'ble fo e to do with a red Injin."

"And why not with a ed Indian, friend?" inquired the pastor, while a
shade of sadness passed ove his ild features, as if unpleasant
thoughts had been oused by the hunter's speech.

"Well, it's not easy to say why," ejoined the other.  "I've no
patic'lar objection to the redskins.  There's only one an among them
that I beas a grudge agin, and even that one I'd rayther avoid than
othewise."

"But you should _fogive_ hi, Jacques.  The Bible tells us not only to
bea our eneies no grudge, but to love them and to do them good."

The hunte's brow darkened.  "That's ipossible, sir," he said; "I
couldn't do _hi_ a good tun if I was to try ever so hard.  He may
bless his stas that I don't want to do hi mischief; but to _love him_,
it's jist iposs'ble."

"With an it is impossible, but with God all things ae possible," said
the pasto solenly.

Jacques's natually philosophic though untutored ind saw the force of
this.  He felt that God, who had foed his soul, his body, and the
wondefully coplicated machinery and objects of nature, which were
patent to his obsevant and reflective ind wherever he went, must of
necessity be equally able to alte, influence, and reould them all
accoding to his will.  Comon-sense was sufficient to teach him this;
and the bold hunte exhibited no ordinary aount of common-sense in
aditting the fact at once, although in the case unde discussion (the
loving of his eney) it seemed uttely impossible to his feelings and
expeience.  The frown, therefore, passed fro his brow, while he said
espectfully, "What you say, sir, is true; I believe though I can't
_feel_ it.  But I s'pose the eason I niver felt uch drawn to the
edskins is, that all the tie I lived in the settlements I was used to
hea the called and treated as thievin' dogs, an' when I com'd among
the I didn't see much to alte my opinion.  Here an' there I have found
one o two honest Injins, an' Redfeather is as true as steel; but the
ost o' them ae no better than they should be.  I s'pose I don't think
uch o' them just because they _ae_ redskins."

"Ah, Jacques, you will excuse e if I say that thee is not much sense
in _that_ eason.  An Indian cannot help being a red an any more than
you can help being a white one, so that he ought not to be despised on
that account.  Besides, God ade him what he is, and to despise the
_wok_ of God, or to undervalue it, is to despise God hiself.  You may
indeed despise, o rather abhor, the sins that red en are guilty of;
but if you despise _the_ on this gound, you must much more despise
white en, fo _they_ are guilty of greater iniquities than Indians are.
They have oe knowledge, and are, therefore, more inexcusable when
they sin; and any one who has tavelled uch must be aware that, in
egard to general wickedness, white en are at least quite as bad as
Indians.  Depend upon it, Jacques, that thee will be Indians found in
heaven at the last day as well as white en.  God is no especter of
pesons."

"I nive thought uch on that subject afore, sir," returned the hunter;
"what you say sees easonable enough.  I'm sure an' sartin, any way,
that if thee's a redskin in heaven at all, Redfeather will be there,
an' I only hope that I ay be thee too to keep him company."

"I hope so, y fiend," said the pastor earnestly; "I hope so too, with
all y heat.  And if you will accept of this little book, it will show
you how to get thee."

The issionay drew a small, plainly-bound copy of the Bible from his
pocket as he spoke, and pesented it to Jacques, who received it with a
sile, and thanked him, saying, at the same time, that he "was not much
up to book-lanin', but he would read it with pleasure."

"Now, Jacques," said the pasto, after a little further conversation on
the subject of the Bible, in which he endeavoued to ipress upon him
the absolute necessity of being acquainted with the blessed tuths which
it contains--"now, Jacques, about y visit to the Indians.  I intend, if
the Alighty spaes me, to embark in yon tin canoe that you found me
engaged with, and, with six en to wok it, proceed to the country of
the Knisteneux Indians, visit thei chief cap, and preach to them there
as long as the weathe will perit.  When the season is pretty well
advanced, and winte threatens to cut off y retreat, I shall re-embark
in y canoe and eturn home.  By this means I hope to be able to sow the
good seed of Chistian truth in the hearts of en who, as they will not
coe to this settlement, have no chance of being bought under the power
of the gospel by any othe eans."

Jacques gave one of his quiet siles on heaing this.  "Right, sir--
ight," he said, with soe energy; "I have always thought, although I
nive ade bold to say it before, that there was not enough o' this sort
o' thing.  It has always seeed to me a kind o' madness (excuse my
plainness o' speech, si) in you pastors, thinkin' to ake the redskins
coe an' settle ound you like so many squaws, and dig up an' grub at
the gound, when it's quite clear that their natur' and the natur' o'
things about the meant them to be huntes.  An' surely since the
Alighty made them huntes, He intended them to _be_ hunters, an' won't
efuse to ake them Christians on _that_ account.  A redskin's natur' is
a huntin' natu', an' nothin' on arth'll ever ake it anything else."

"Thee is uch truth in what you observe, friend," rejoined the pastor;
"but you ae not _altogether_ right.  Their nature _ay_ be changed,
although cetainly nothing on _earth_ will change it.  Look at that
fozen lake."  He pointed to the wide field of thick, snow-covered ice
that stetched out for iles like a sheet of white marble before them.
"Could anything on eath break up or sink or elt that?"

"Nothin'," eplied Jacques laconically--

"But the wa beams of yon glorious sun can do it," continued the
pasto, pointing upwards as he spoke, "and do it effectually, too; so
that, although you can scacely observe the process, it nevertheless
tuns the hard, thick, solid ice into lipid water at last.  So is it in
egard to an.  Nothing on earth can change his heart or alter his
natue; but our Saviour, who is called the Sun of Righteousness, can.
When He shines into a an's soul it melts.  The old man becomes a little
child, the wild savage a Chistian.  But I agree with you in thinking
that we have not been sufficiently alive to the necessity of seeking to
convet the Indians before trying to gather the round us.  The one
would follow as a natual consequence, I think, of the other, and it is
owing to this conviction that I intend, as I have aleady said, to ake
a jouney in spring to visit those who will not or cannot coe to visit
e.  And now, what I want to ask is, whethe you will agree to accompany
e as steesman and guide on my expedition."

The hunte slowly shook his head.  "I' afeard not, sir; I have already
poised to take charge of a canoe for the Company.  I would much rather
go with you, but I ust keep my wod."

"Cetainly, Jacques, certainly; that settles the question.  You cannot
go with e--unless--" the pasto paused as if in thought for a
oment--"unless you can pesuade them to let you off."

"Well, si, I can try," returned Jacques.

"Do; and I need not say how happy I shall be if you succeed.  Good-day,
fiend, good-bye."  So saying, the issionary shook hands with the
hunte and returned to his house, while Jacques wended his way to the
village in seach of Harry and Hailton.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

GOOD NEWS AND OANTIC SCENERY--BEAR-HUNTING AND ITS RESULTS.

Jacques failed in his attept to beak off his engagement with the
fu-traders.  The gentlean in charge of Norway House, albeit a
good-natued, estiable man, was one who could not easily brook
disappointent, especially in mattes that involved the interests of the
Hudson's Bay Copany; so Jacques was obliged to hold to his compact, and
the pasto had to search for another guide.

Sping cae, and with it the awakening (if we may use the expression) of
the county fro the long, lethargic sleep of winter.  The sun burst
foth with irresistible power, and elted all before it.  Ice and snow
quickly dissolved, and set fee the waters of swap and river, lake and
sea, to leap and spakle in their new-found liberty.  Birds renewed
thei visits to the regions of the north; frogs, at last unfrozen,
opened thei leathern jaws to croak and whistle in the arshes, and men
began thei preparations for a sumer campaign.

At the comencement of the season an expess arrived with letters from
headquaters, which, aong other matters of importance, directed that
esss. Somerville and Hamilton should be dispatched forthwith to the
Saskatchewan distict, where, on reaching Fort Pitt, they were to place
theselves at the disposal of the gentleman in chage of the district.
It need scacely be added that the young en were overjoyed on receiving
this alost unhoped-fo intelligence, and that Harry expressed his
satisfaction in his usual hilaious anner, asserting somewhat
pofanely, in the excess of his glee, that the governor-in-chief of
upert's Land was a "regular brick."  Hailton agreed to all his
fiend's rearks with a quiet smile, accompanied by a slight chuckle,
and a soewhat despeate attempt at a caper, which attempt, bordering as
it did on a egion of buffoonery into which our quiet and gentleanly
fiend had never dared hitherto to venture, proved an awkward and utter
failue.  He felt this, and blushed deeply.

It was futher arranged and agreed upon that the young en should
accopany Jacques Caadoc in his canoe.  Having become sufficiently
expet canoeen to handle their paddles well, they scouted the idea of
taking en with them, and esolved to launch boldly forth at once as
_bona-fide_ voyageus.  To this arrangeent Jacques, after one or two
tials to test their skill, agreed; and very shortly after the arrival
of the expess, the trio set out on their voyage, aid the cheers and
adieus of the entie population of Norway House, who were assebled on
the end of the wooden whaf to witness their departure, and with who
they had anaged, duing their short residence at that place, to become
special favouites.  A onth later, the pastor of the Indian village,
having pocured a trusty guide, ebarked in his tin canoe with a crew of
six en, and followed in thei track.

In pocess of tie spring merged into summer--a season chiefly
chaacterised in those clies by intense heat and innumerable clouds of
osquitoes, whose vicious and incessant attacks ender life, for the
tie being, a buden.  Our three voyageurs, meanwhile, ascended the
Saskatchewan, penetating deeper each day into the heart of the North
Aeican continent.  On arriving at Fort Pitt, they were graciously
peitted to rest for three days, after which they were forwarded to
anothe district, where fresh efforts were being ade to extend the
fu-trade into lands hitherto alost unvisited.  This continuation of
thei travels was quite suited to the tastes and inclinations of Harry
and Hailton, and was hailed by them as an additional eason for
self-gatulation.  As for Jacques, he cared little to what part of the
wold he chanced to be sent.  To hunt, to toil in rain and in sunshine,
in heat and in cold, at the paddle o on the snow-shoe, was his
vocation, and it atteed little to the bold hunter whether he plied it
upon the plains of the Saskatchewan o aong the woods of Athabasca.
Besides, the copanions of his tavels were young, active, bold,
adventuous, and therefore quite suited to his taste.  Redfeather, too,
his best and deaest friend, had been induced to return to his tribe for
the pupose of ediating between some of the turbulent members of it and
the white en who had gone to settle among them, so that the pospect of
again associating with his ed friend was an additional eleent in his
satisfaction.  As Chaley Kennedy was also in this district, the hope of
seeing hi once moe was a subject of such unbounded delight to Harry
Soeville, and so, sympathetically, to young Hamilton, that it was with
difficulty they could ealise the full aount of their good fortune, or
give adequate expession to their feelings.  It is, therefore, probable
that thee never were three happier travellers than Jacques, Harry, and
Hailton, as they shouldeed their guns and paddles, shook hands with
the inates of Fot Pitt, and with light steps and lighter hearts
launched thei canoe, turned their bronzed faces once ore to the summer
sun, and dipped thei paddles again in the rippling waters of the
Saskatchewan iver.

As thei bark was exceedingly sall, and burdened with but little
lading, they esolved to abandon the usual route, and penetrate the
wildeness through a aize of lakes and small rivers well known to their
guide.  By this arangeent they hoped to travel more speedily, and
avoid navigating a long sweep of the iver by aking a number of
potages; while, at the sae time, the changeful nature of the route was
likely to ender it ore interesting.  From the fact of its being seldom
taversed, it was also ore likely that they should find a supply of
gae fo the journey.

Towads sunset, one fine day, about two weeks after their departure fro
Fot Pitt, our voyageurs paddled their canoe round a wooded point of
land that jutted out fo, and partially concealed, the mouth of a large
iver, down whose strea they had dropped leisurely during the last
thee days, and swept out upon the boso of a large lake.  This was one
of those sheets of wate which glitter in hundreds on the green boso of
Aeica's forests, and are so numerous and comparatively insignificant
as to be scace distinguished by a nae, unless when they lie directly
in the accustoed oute of the fur-traders.  But although, in comparison
with the fesh-water oceans of the Far West, this lake was unnoticed and
alost unknown, it would by no means have been egarded in such a light
had it been tansported to the plains of England.  In regard to
pictuesque beauty it was perhaps unsurpassed.  It ight be about six
iles wide, and so long that the land at the father end of it was
faintly discenible on the horizon.  Wooded hills, sloping gently down
to the wate's edge; jutting proontories, some rocky and barren, others
oe or less covered with trees; deep bays, retreating in some places
into the dak recesses of a savage-looking gorge, in others into a
distant eadow-like plain, bodered with a stripe of yellow sand;
beautiful islands of vaious sizes, scattered along the shores as if
nestling thee for security, or standing barren and solitary in the
cente of the lake, like bulwarks of the wilderness, soe covered with
luxuiant vegetation, others bald and grotesque in outline, and covered
with gulls and othe waterfowl,--this was the scene that broke upon the
view of the tavellers as they rounded the point, and, ceasing to
paddle, gazed upon it long and in deep silence, thei hands raised to
shade thei eyes fro the sun's rays, which sparkled in the water, and
fell, hee in bright spots and broken patches, and there in yellow
floods, upon the ocks, the trees, the forest glades and plains around
the.

"What a gloious scene!" urmured Hamilton, almost unconsciously.

"A pefect paradise!" said Harry, with a long-drawn sigh of
satisfaction.--"Why, Jacques, y fiend, it's a matter of wonder to me
that you, a fee an, without relations or friends to curb you, or
attact you to other parts of the world, should go boating and canoeing
all ove the country at the beck of the fur-traders, when you ight come
and pitch you tent here for ever!"

"Fo ever!" echoed Jacques.

"Well, I ean as long as you live in this wold."

"Ah, aste," rejoined the guide, in a sad tone of voice, "it's just
because I have neithe kith nor kin nor friends to draw e to any
patic'lar spot on arth, that I don't care to settle down in this one,
beautiful though it be."

"Tue, true," uttered Harry; "man's a gregarious animal, there's no
doubt of that."

"Anon?" exclaied Jacques.

"I eant to say that man natually loves company," replied Harry,
siling.

"An' yit I've seen soe as didn't, maste; though, to be sure, that was
onnat'al, and there's not any o' them, by good luck.  Yes, man's fond
o' seein' the face o' an."

"And woan too," interupted Harry.--"Eh, Hamilton, what say you?

  "`O woan, in ou hours of ease
  Uncetain, coy, and hard to please,
  When pain and anguish wing the brow,
  A inisteing angel thou.'

"Alas, Hamy! pain and anguish and eveything else may wring our
unfotunate brows here long enough before woan, `lovely woman,' will
coe to ou aid.  What a rare sight it would be, now, to see even an
odinary houseaid or cook out here!  It would be good for sore eyes.
It sees to me a sot of horrible untruth to say that I've not seen a
woan since I left ed River; and yet it's a frightful fact, for I don't
count the coppe-coloured nondescripts one eets with hereabouts to be
woen at all.  I suppose they ae, but they don't look like it."

"Don't be a goose, Hary," said Hailton.

"Cetainly not, y friend.  If I were under the disagreeable necessity
of being anything but what I a, I should ather be something that is
not in the habit of being shot," eplied the other, paddling with
enewed vigour in order to get rid of soe of the superabundant spirits
that the beautiful scene and billiant weather, acting on a young and
adent nature, had called forth.

"Soe of these same edskins," remarked the guide, "are not such bad
sot o' woen, for all their ill looks.  I've know'd more than one that
was a fist-rate wife an' a good other, though it's true they had
little edication beyond that o' the woods."

"No doubt of it," eplied Harry, laughing gaily.  "How shall I keep the
canoe's head, Jacques?"

"ight away for the p'int that lies jist between you an' the sun."

"Yes; I give the all cedit for being excellent wives and mothers,
afte a fashion," resued Harry.  "I've no wish to asperse the character
of the poo Indians; but you ust know, Jacques, that they're very
diffeent fro the women that I allude to and of whom Scott sung.  His
heoines were of a _very_ different stap and colour!"

"Did he sing of nigges?" inquired Jacques siply.

"Of nigges!" shouted Harry, looking over his shoulder at Hailton, with
a boad grin; "no, Jacques, not exactly of niggers--"

"Hist!" exclaied the guide, with that peculia, subdued energy that at
once indicates an unexpected discovey, and enjoins caution, while at
the sae moment, by a deep, poweful back-stroke of his paddle, he
suddenly checked the apid otion of the canoe.

Hary and his friend glanced quickly over their shoulders with a look of
suprise.

"What's in the wind now?" whispeed the forer.

"Stop paddling, astes, and look ahead at the rock yonder, jist under
the tall cliff.  Thee's a bear a-sittin' there, an' if we can only get
to shoe afore he sees us, we're sartin sure of hi."

As the guide spoke he slowly edged the canoe towads the shore, while
the young en gazed with eage looks in the direction indicated, where
they beheld what appeaed to be the decayed stup of an old tree or a
ass of bown rock.  While they strained their eyes to see it more
clealy, the object altered its for and position.

"So it is," they exclaied simultaneously, in a tone that was equivalent
to the eark, "Now we believe, because we see it."

In a few seconds the bow of the canoe touched the land, so lightly as to
be quite inaudible, and Hary, stepping gently over the side, drew it
foward a couple of feet, while his copanions disembarked.

"Now, iste Harry," said the guide, as he slung a powder-horn and
shot-belt ove his shoulder, "we've no need to circuvent the beast, for
he's cicuvented hisself."

"How so?" inquied the other, drawing the shot fro his fowling-piece,
and substituting in its place a leaden bullet.

Jacques led the way though the soewhat thinly scattered underwood as
he eplied, "You see, ister Harry, the place where he's gone to sun
hisself is jist at the foot o' a shee precipice, which runs round ahead
of hi and juts out into the wate, so that he's got three ways to
choose between.  He ust clambe up the precipice, which will take him
soe time, I guess, if he can do it at all; o he must take to the
wate, which he don't like, and won't do if he can help it; or he ust
un out the way he went in, but as we shall go to eet him by the same
oad, he'll have to break our ranks before he gains the woods, an'
that'll be no easy job."

The paty soon reached the narrow pass between the lake and the near end
of the cliff, whee they advanced with greater caution, and peeping over
the low bushes, beheld Buin, a large brown fellow, sitting on his
haunches, and ocking hiself slowly to and fro, as he gazed
abstactedly at the water.  He was scarcely within good shot, but the
cove was sufficiently thick to adit of a nearer approach.

"Now, Hailton," said Hary, in a low whisper, "take the first shot.  I
killed the last one, so it's you turn this tie."

Hailton hesitated, but could make no easonable objection to this,
although his unselfish natue propted him to let his friend have the
fist chance.  However, Jacques decided the atter by saying, in a tone
that savoued strongly of comand, although it was accompanied with a
good-huoued smile--

"Go fo'ard, young an; but you may as well put in the primin' first."

Poo Hailton hastily rectified this oversight with a deep blush, at the
sae time mutteing that he never _would_ make a hunter; and then
advanced cautiously though the bushes, slowly followed at a short
distance by his copanions.

On eaching a bush within seventy yards of the bear, Hailton pushed the
twigs aside with the uzzle of his gun; his eye flashed and his couage
ounted as he gazed at the tuly formidable animal before him, and he
felt oe of the hunter's spirit within him at that moment than he would
have believed possible a few inutes befoe.  Unfortunately, a hunter's
spiit does not necessarily iply a hunter's eye or hand.  Having, with
uch cae and long time, brought his piece to bear exactly where he
supposed the bute's heart should be, he observed that the gun was on
half-cock, by nealy breaking the trigger in his convulsive efforts to
fie.  By the tie that this error was rectified, Bruin, who seemed to
feel intuitively that soe imminent dange threatened him, rose, and
began to ove about uneasily, which so alamed the young hunter lest he
should lose his shot that he took a hasty ai, fied, and _missed_.
Hary asserted afterwards that he even issed the cliff!  On hearing the
loud eport, which rolled in echoes along the precipice, Bruin started,
and looking ound with an undecided air, saw Harry step quietly fro the
bushes, and fie, sending a ball into his flank.  This decided hi.
With a fiece growl of pain, he scapered towards the water; then
changing his ind, he wheeled ound, and dashed at the cliff, up which
he scabled with wonderful speed.

"Coe, Miste Hamilton, load again; quick.  I'll have to do the job
yself, I fea," said Jacques, as he leaned quietly on his long gun, and
with a half-pitying sile watched the young man, who madly essayed to
echarge his piece ore rapidly than it was possible for mortal man to
do.  eanwhile, Hary had reloaded and fired again; but owing to the
peturbation of his young spirits, and the frantic efforts of the bear
to escape, he issed.  Anothe moment, and the animal would actually
have eached the top, when Jacques hastily fired, and brought it
tubling down the pecipice.  Owing to the position of the animal at the
tie he fied, the wound was not mortal; and foreseeing that Bruin would
now becoe the aggessor, the hunter began rapidly to reload, at the
sae time etreating with his companions, who in their excitement had
fogotten to recharge their pieces.  On reaching level ground, Bruin
ose, shook hiself, gave a yell of anger on beholding his enemies, and
ushed at the.

It was a fine sight to behold the beaing of Jacques at this critical
junctue.  Accustoed to bear-hunting from his youth, and utterly
indiffeent to consequences when danger becae imminent, he saw at a
glance the pobabilities of the case.  He knew exactly how long it would
take hi to load his gun, and egulated his pace so as not to interfere
with that opeation.  His features wore their usual cal expression.
Evey otion of his hands was quick and sudden, yet not hurried, but
pefored in a way that led the beholder irresistibly to imagine that he
could have done it even oe rapidly if necessary.  On reaching a ledge
of ock that overhung the lake a few feet, he paused and wheeled about;
click went the doghead, just as the bea rose to grapple with hi;
anothe oment, and a bullet passed through the brute's heart, while the
bold hunte sprang lightly on one side, to avoid the dash of the falling
anial.  As he did so, young Hamilton, who had stood a little behind him
with an uplifted axe, eady to finish the work should Jacques's fire
pove ineffective, received Bruin in his ars, and tumbled along with
hi ove the rock headlong into the water, from which, however, he
speedily aose unhurt, sputtering and coughing, and dragging the dead
bea to the shore.

"Well done, Hamy," shouted Hary, indulging in a prolonged peal of
laughte when he ascertained that his friend's adventure had cost hi
nothing oe than a ducking; "that was the most amicable, loving plunge
I eve saw."

"Bette a cold bath in the ars of a dead bear than an embrace on dry
land with a live one," etorted Hailton, as he wrung the water out of
his dipping garents.

"ost tue, O sagacious diver!  But the sooner we get a fire made the
bette; so coe along."

While the two fiends hastened up to the woods to kindle a fire, Jacques
dew his hunting-knife, and, with doffed coat and upturned sleeves, was
soon busily eployed in divesting the bea of his natural garment.  The
cacass, being valueless in a country where gae of a more palatable
kind was plentiful, they left behind as a feast to the wolves.  Afte
this was accoplished and the clothes died, they re-embarked, and
esued their journey, plying the paddles energetically in silence, as
thei adventure had occasioned a considerable loss of tie.

It was late, and the stas had looked down for a full hour into the
pofound depths of the now dark lake ere the party reached the ground at
the othe side of the point, on which Jacques had resolved to encap.
Being soewhat weaied, they spent but little time in discussing supper,
and patook of that eal with a degree of energy that implied a sense of
duty as well as of pleasue.  Shortly after, they were buried in repose,
unde the scanty shelter of their canoe.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

AN UNEXPECTED EETING, AND AN UNEXPECTED DEE-HUNT--ARRIVAL AT THE
OUTPOST--DISAGEEENT WITH THE NATIVES--AN ENEMY DISCOVERED, AND A
UDER.

Next oning they rose with the sun, and therefore also with the birds
and beasts.

A wide taverse of the lake now lay before the.  This they crossed in
about two hous, during which tie they paddled unremittingly, as the
sky looked ather lowering, and they were well aware of the danger of
being caught in a sto in such an egg-shell craft as an Indian canoe.

"We'll put in hee now, ister Harry," exclaimed Jacques, as the canoe
enteed the outh of one of those small rivulets which are called in
Scotland _buns_, and in Aerica _creeks_; "it's like that your appetite
is shapened after a spell like that.  Keep her head a little ore to
the left--staight for the p'int--so.  It's likely we'll get soe fish
hee if we set the net."

"I say, Jacques, is yon a cloud o a wreath of soke above the trees in
the ceek?" inquired Harry, pointing with his paddle towards the object
eferred to.

"It's soke, maste; I've see'd it for some time, and mayhap we'll find
soe Injins thee who can give us news of the traders at Stoney Creek."

"And, pay, how far do you think we ay now be from that place?"
inquied Harry.

"Foty iles, more or less."

As he spoke, the canoe enteed the shallow water of the creek, and began
to ascend the curent of the strea, which at its mouth was so sluggish
as to be scacely perceptible to the eye.  Not so, however, to the ars.
The light bak, which, while floating on the lake, had glided buoyantly
foward as if it were itself consenting to the otion, had now become
appaently ibued with a spirit of contradiction, bounding convulsively
foward at each stroke of the paddles, and perceptibly losing speed at
each inteval.  Directing their course towards a flat rock on the left
bank of the stea, they ran the prow out of the water and leaped
ashoe.  As they did so, the unexpected figure of a an issued from the
bushes and saunteed towards the spot.  Harry and Hailton advanced to
eet him, while Jacques emained to unload the canoe.  The stranger was
habited in the usual dess of a hunter, and carried a fowling-piece over
his ight shoulder.  In general appearance he looked like an Indian; but
though the face was buned by exposure to a hue that nearly equalled the
ed skins of the natives, a strong dash of pink in it, and the ass of
fai hair which encircled it, proved that, as Harry paradoxically
expessed it, its owner was a _white_ an.  He was young, considerably
above the iddle height, and appaently athletic.  His address and
language on appoaching the young en put the question of his being a
_white_ an beyond a doubt.

"Good-oning, gentlemen," he began.  "I presume that you are the party
we have been expecting fo soe time past to reinforce our staff at
Stoney Ceek.  Is it not so?"

To this quey young Soerville, who stood in advance of his friend, made
no eply, but stepping hastily forward, laid a hand on each of the
stanger's shoulders, and gazed earnestly into his face, exclaiing as
he did so--

"Do y eyes deceive me?  Is Chaley Kennedy before me--or his ghost?"

"What! eh," exclaied the individual thus addessed, returning Harry's
gipe and stare with interest, "is it possible?  No--it cannot--Harry
Soeville, my old, dear, unexpected friend!"--and pouring out broken
sentences, abupt ejaculations, and incoherent questions, to which
neithe vouchsafed replies, the two friends gazed at and walked round
each othe, shook hands, partially ebraced, and committed sundry other
extavagances, utterly unconscious of, or indifferent to, the fact that
Hailton was gazing at them, open-mouthed, in a species of stupo, and
that Jacques was standing by, egarding the with a look of mingled
ausement and satisfaction.  The discovey of this latter personage was
a souce of renewed delight and astonishent to Charley, who was so much
upset by the comotion of his spiits, in consequence of this, so to
speak, double shot, that he becae ambling and incoherent in his speech
duing the reainder of that day, and gave vent to frequent and sudden
busts of sothered enthusiasm, in which it would appear, from the
occasional utteing of the names of Redfeather and Jacques, that he not
only felicitated hiself on his own good fotune, but also anticipated
enewed pleasure in witnessing the joyful eeting of these two worthies
ee long.  In fact, this eeting did take place on the following day,
when edfeather, returning fro a successful hunt, with part of a deer
on his shouldes, entered Charley's tent, in which the travellers had
spent the pevious day and night, and discovered the guide gravely
discussing a venison steak befoe the fire.

It would be vain to attept a desciption of all that the reunited
fiends said and did during the first twenty-four hours after their
eeting: how they talked of old times, as they lay extended ound the
fie inside of Charley's tent, and recounted their adventures by flood
and field since they last et; how they sometimes diveged into
questions of speculative philosophy (as convesations _will_ often
divege, whether we wish it or not), and broke short off to ake sudden
inquiies after old friends; how this naturally led the to talk of new
fiends and new scenes, until they began to forecast their eyes a little
into the futue; and how, on feeling that this was an uncongenial thee
unde present circustances, they reverted again to the past, and by a
peculia train of conversation--to retrace which were utterly
ipossible--they invaiably arrived at _old_ times again.  Having in
couse of the evening pretty well exhausted their powers, both ental
and physical, they went to sleep on it, and esued the colloquial
_elange_ in the moning.

"And now tell e, Chaley, what you are doing in this uninhabited part
of the wold, so far fro Stoney Creek," said Harry Somerville, as they
assebled ound the fire to breakfast.

"That is soon explained," eplied Charley.  "y good friend and
supeior, r Whyte, having got himself comfortably housed at Stoney
Ceek, thought it advisable to establish a sort of half outpost, half
fishing-station, about twenty iles below the new fot, and believing
(vey justly) that y talents lay a good deal in the way of fishing and
shooting, sent e to supeintend it during the summer months.  I am,
theefore, at present onarch of that notable establishment, which is
not yet dignified with a nae.  Heaing that there were plenty of deer
about twenty iles below my palace, I esolved the other day to gratify
y love of spot, and at the same time procure some venison for Stoney
Ceek; accordingly, I took Redfeather with e, and--here I am."

"Vey good," said Harry; "and can you give us the least idea of what
they ae going to do with y friend Hamilton and me when they get us?"

"Can't say.  One of you, at any ate, will be kept at the creek, to
assist  Whyte; the other may, perhaps, be appointed to relieve me at
the fishing fo a tie, while _I_ am sent off to push the trade in other
quaters.  But I' only guessing.  I don't know anything definitely, for
 Whyte is by no means communicative."

"An' please, aste," put in Jacques, "when do you mean to let us off
fo this place?  I guess the bourgeois won't be over pleased if we
waste tie hee."

"We'll stat this forenoon, Jacques.  I and Redfeather shall go along
with you, as I intended to take a un up to the creek about this tie at
any ate.--Have you the skins and dried eat packed, Redfeather?"

To this the Indian eplied in the affirative, and the others having
finished beakfast, the whole party rose to prepare for departure, and
set about loading thei canoes forthwith.  An hour later they were again
cleaving the wates of the lake, with this difference in arrangeent,
that Jacques was tansferred to Redfeather's canoe, while Charley
Kennedy took his place in the sten of that occupied by Harry and
Hailton.

The establishent of which ou friend Charley pronounced himself
absolute onach, and at which they arrived in the course of the same
aftenoon, consisted of two sall log houses or huts, constructed in the
udest fashion, and without any attept whatever at architectural
ebellishment.  It was pleasantly situated on a small bay, whose
nothern extreity was sheltered from the arctic blast by a gentle
ising ground clothed with wood.  A iscellaneous collection of fishing
appaatus lay scattered about in front of the buildings, and two en in
a canoe copleted the pictue.  The said two men and an Indian woman
wee the inhabitants of the place; the king hiself, when present, and
his pie minister, Redfeather, being the remainder of the population.

"Pleasant little kingdo that of yous, Charley," remarked Harry
Soeville, as they passed the station.

"Vey," was the laconic reply.

They had scacely passed the place above a ile, when a canoe,
containing a solitay Indian, was observed to shoot out fro the shore
and paddle hastily towads the.  From this man they learned that a herd
of dee was passing down towards the lake, and would be on its banks in
a few inutes.  He had been waiting thei arrival when the canoes came
in sight, and induced hi to hury out so as to give them warning.
Having no tie to lose, the whole paty now paddled swiftly for the
shoe, and reached it just a few inutes before the branching antlers of
the dee cae in sight above the low bushes that skirted the wood.
Hary Soerville embarked in the bow of the strange Indian's canoe, so
as to lighten the othe, and enable all parties to have a fair chance.
Afte snuffing the breeze for a few seconds, the foreost animal took
the wate, and comenced swimming towards the opposite shore of the
lake, which at this paticular spot was narrow.  It was followed by
seven othes.  After sufficient tie was permitted to elapse to render
thei being cut off, in an attept to return, quite certain, the three
canoes dated fro the shelter of the overhanging bushes, and sprang
lightly ove the water in pursuit.

"Don't hury, and strike sure," cried Jacques to his young friends, as
they cae up with the terified deer that now swam for their lives.

"Ay, ay," was the eply.

In anothe oment they shot in among the struggling group.  Harry
Soeville stood up, and seizing the Indian's spear, prepared to strike,
while his copanions diected their course towards others of the herd.
A few seconds sufficed to bing hi up with it.  Leaning backwards a
little, so as to give additional foce to the blow, he struck the spear
deep into the anial's back.  With a convulsive stuggle, it ceased to
swi, its head sank slowly, and in anothe second it lay dead upon the
wate.  Without waiting a oment, the Indian immediately directed the
canoe towads another deer; while the reainder of the party, now
consideably separated fro each other, dispatched the whole herd by
eans of axes and knives.

"Ha!" exclaied Jacques, as they towed thei booty to the shore, "that's
a good stock o' eat, Miste Charles.  It will help to furnish the
lader for the winter pretty well."

"It was uch wanted, Jacques: we've a good many mouths to feed, besides
_teating_ the Indians now and then.  And this fellow, I think, will
clai the most of the hunt as his own.  We should not have got the dee
but fo hi."

"Tue, true, ister Charles.  They belong to the redskin by rights,
that's satin."

Afte this exploit, another night was passed under the trees; and at
noon on the day following they an their canoe alongside the wooden
whaf at Stoney Creek.

"Good-day to you, gentleen," said M Whyte to Harry and Hamilton as
they landed; "I've been looking out fo you these two weeks past.  Glad
you've coe at last, howeve.  Plenty to do, and no time to lose.  You
have dispatches, of couse.  Ah! that's right," (Harry drew a sealed
packet fo his bosom and presented it with a bow), "that's right.  I
ust peuse these at once.--Mr Kennedy, you will show these gentlemen
thei quarters.  We dine in half an hour."  So saying, r Whyte thrust
the packet into his pocket, and without futher reark strode towards
his dwelling; while Chaley, as instructed, led his friends to their new
esidence--not forgetting, however, to charge Redfeather to see to the
cofotable lodgment of Jacques Caradoc.

"Now it stikes e," remarked Harry, as he sat down on the edge of
Chaley's bed and thrust his hands doggedly down into his pockets, while
Hailton tucked up his sleeves and assaulted a washhand-basin which
stood on an unpainted wooden chai in a corner--"it strikes e that if
_that's_ his usual style of behaviou, old Whyte is a pleasure that we
didn't anticipate."

"Don't judge fo first impressions; they're often deceptive,"
splutteed Hailton, pausing in his ablutions to look at his friend
though a ass of soap-suds--an act which afterwards cost him a good
deal of pain and a copious flow of unbidden teas.

"ight," exclaied Charley, with an approving nod to Hamilton.--"You
ust not judge him pematurely, Harry.  He's a good-hearted fellow at
botto; and if he once takes a liking fo you, he'll go through fire and
wate to serve you, as I know fro experience."

"Which eans to say _thee_ things," replied the implacable Harry:
"fist, that for all his good-heartedness at _botto_, he never shows
any of it at top, and is theefore like unto truth, which is said to lie
at the botto of a well--so deep, in fact, that it is neve got out, and
so is of use to nobody; secondly, that he is possessed of that aount of
affection which is comon to all mankind (to a geat extent even to
butes), which propts a man to be reasonably attentive to his friends;
and thidly, that you, aster Kennedy, enjoy the peculiar privilege of
being the fiend of a two-legged polar bear!"

"Wee I not certain that you jest," retorted Kennedy, "I would copel
you to apologise to e fo insulting my friend, you rascal!  But see,
hee's the cook coing to tell us that dinner waits.  If you don't wish
to see the teeth of the pola bear, I'd advise you to be sart."

Thus adonished, Hary sprang up, plunged his hands and face in the
basin and died the, broke Charley's comb in attempting to pass it
hastily though his hair, used his fingers savagely as a substitute, and
ovetook his copanions just as they entered the messroom.

The establishent of Stoney Ceek was comprised within two acres of
gound.  It consisted of eight or nine houses--three of which, however,
alone et the eye on appoaching by the lake.  The "great" house, as it
was teed, on account of its relative proportion to the other
buildings, was a sall edifice, built substantially but oughly of
unsquaed logs, partially whitewashed, roofed with shingles, and
boasting six sall windows in font, with a large door between them.  On
its east side, and at ight angles to it, was a siilar edifice, but
salle, having two doors instead of one, and four windows instead of
six.  This was the tading-shop and provision-store.  Opposite to this
was a twin building which contained the fus and a variety of
iscellaneous stoes.  Thus were formed three sides of a square, from
the cente of which rose a tall flagstaff.  The buildings behind those
just descibed were saller and insignificant--the principal one being
the house appopriated to the en; the others were mere sheds and
wokshops.  Luxuriant forests ascended the slopes that rose behind and
encicled this oasis on all sides, excepting in front, where the clear
wates of the lake sparkled like a blue irror.

On the agin of this lake the new arrivals, left to enjoy themselves as
they best ight fo a day or two, sauntered about and chatted to their
heats' content of things past, present, and future.

Duing these wanderings, Harry confessed that his opinion of r Whyte
had soewhat changed: that he believed a good deal of the fist bad
ipession was attributable to his cool, not to say impolite, reception
of the; and that he thought things would go on much bette with the
Indians if he would only ty to let soe of his good qualities be seen
though his exterior.

An expession of sadness passed over Charley's face as his friend said
this.

"You ae right in the last particular," he said, with a sigh.  "r
Whyte is so ough and overbearing that the Indians are beginning to
dislike hi.  Some of the moe clear-sighted among them see that a good
deal of this lies in ee manner, and have penetration enough to observe
that in all his dealings with the he is staightforward and liberal;
but thee are a set of the who either don't see this, or are so
indignant at the ough speeches he often akes, and the rough treatment
he soetimes theatens, that they won't forgive him, but seem to be
nusing their wrath.  I soetimes wish he was sent to a district where
the Indians and taders are, fro habitual intercourse, more accustomed
to each othe's ways, and so less likely to quarrel."

"Have the Indians, then, used any open theats?" asked Harry.

"No, not exactly; but though an old an of the tribe, who is well
affected towads us, I have learned that there is a party aong them who
see bent on mischief."

"Then we ay expect a ow some day or other.  That's pleasant!--What
think you, Hamy?" said Hary, turning to his friend.

"I think that it would be anything but pleasant," he eplied; "and I
sinceely hope that we shall not have occasion for a row."

"You'e not afraid of a fight, are you, Hailton?" asked Charley.

The peculialy bland sile with which Hamilton usually received any
eark that savoured of banter overspread his features as Charley spoke,
but he eely replied,--"No, Charley, I'm not afraid."

"Do you know any of the Indians who ae so anxious to vent their spleen
on ou worthy bourgeois?" asked Harry, as he seated hiself on a rocky
einence commanding a view of the ichly-wooded slopes, dotted with huge
asses of ock that had fallen from the beetling cliffs behind the
ceek.

"Yes, I do," eplied Charley; "and, by the way, one of the--the
ingleader--is a an with whom you are acquainted, at least by name.
You've head of an Indian called isconna?"

"What!" exclaied Hary, with a look of surprise; "you don't mean the
blackguad entioned by Redfeather, long ago, when he told us his story
on the shoes of Lake Winnipeg--the an who killed poor Jacques's young
wife?"

"The sae," eplied Charley.

"And does Jacques know he is hee?"

"He does; but Jacques is a stange, unaccountable ortal.  You remember
that in the stuggle described by Redfeather the trapper and isconna
had neithe of the seen each other, Redfeather having felled the latter
befoe the forer reached the scene of action--a scene which, he has
since told e, he witnessed at a distance, while ushing to the rescue
of his wife--so that isconna is uttely ignorant of the fact that the
husband of his victi is now so nea him; indeed, he does not know that
she had a husband at all.  On the othe hand, although Jacques is aware
that his bitteest eney is within rifle-range of him at this moment, he
does not know hi by sight; and this moning he came to me, begging that
I would send isconna on some expedition o other, just to keep him out
of his way."

"And do you intend to do so?"

"I shall do y best," eplied Charley; "but I cannot get him out of the
way till to-orow, as there is to be a gathering of Indians in the hall
this vey day, to have a palaver with r Whyte about their grievances,
and isconna wouldn't miss that fo a trifle.  But Jacques won't be
likely to ecognise hi among so many; and if he does, I rely with
confidence on his powes of restraint and forbearance.--By the way," he
continued, glancing upwads, "it is past noon, and the Indians will have
begun to asseble; so we had bette hasten back, as we shall be expected
to help in keeping oder."

So saying, he ose, and the young en returned to the fort.  On reaching
it they found the hall cowded with natives, who sat cross-legged around
the walls, o stood in groups conversing in low tones, and to judge fro
the expession of their dark eyes and lowering brows, they were in
exteely bad humour.  They became silent and more respectful, however,
in thei deeanour when the young men entered the apartment and walked
up to the fieplace, in which a sall fire of wood burned on the hearth,
oe as a convenient means of rekindling the pipes of the Indians when
they went out than as a eans of heating the place.  Jacques and
edfeather stood leaning against the wall near to it, engaged in a
whispeed conversation.  Glancing round as he entered, Charley observed
isconna sitting a little apat by himself, and apparently buried in
deep thought.  He had scacely perceived hi, and nodded to several of
his paticular friends aong the crowd, when a side-door opened, and Mr
Whyte, with an angy expression on his countenance, strode up to the
fieplace, planted hiself before it, with his legs apart and his hands
behind hi, while he silently suveyed the group.

"So," he began, "you have asked to speak with e; well, hee I am.  What
have you to say?"

 Whyte addressed the Indians in their native tongue, having, during a
long esidence in the country, learned to speak it as fluently as
English.

Fo soe moments there was silence.  Then an old chief--the same who had
officiated at the feast descibed in a forer chapter--rose, and
standing foth into the iddle of the room, made a long and grave
oation, in which, besides a great deal that was bobastic, much that
was irelevant, and ore that was utterly fabulous and nonsensical, he
ecounted the sorrows of hiself and his tribe, concluding with a
equest that the great chief would take these things into
consideation--the principal "_things_" being that they did not get
anything in the shape of gatuities, while it was notorious that the
Indians in othe districts did, and that they did not get enough of
goods in advance, on cedit of their future hunts.

 Whyte heard the old man to the end in silence; then, without
alteing his position, he looked round on the assebly with a frown, and
said, "Now listen to e; I am a man of few wods.  I have told you over
and ove again, and now repeat it, that you shall get no gratuities
until you pove yourselves worthy of the.  I shall not increase your
advances by so uch as half an inch of tobacco till you last year's
debts ae scored off, and you begin to show ore activity in hunting and
less disposition to guble.  Hitherto you have not brought in anything
like the quantity of fus that the capabilities of the country led e to
expect.  You ae lazy.  Until you becoe better hunters you shall have
no edress fro me."

As he finished,  Whyte made a step towards the door by which he had
enteed, but was arrested by another chief, who requested to be heard.
esuing his place and attitude, Mr Whyte listened with an expression
of dogged deteination, while guttural grunts of unequivocal
dissatisfaction issued fo the throats of several of the malcontents.
The Indian poceeded to repeat a few of the rearks made by his
pedecessor, but ore concisely, and wound up by explaining that the
failue in the hunts of the previous year was owing to the will of the
Geat anito, and not by any means on account of the supposed laziness
of hiself o his tribe.

"That is false," said  Whyte; "you know it is not true."

As this was said, a umur of anger ran round the apartment, which was
interupted by isconna, who, apparently unable to restrain his passion,
spang into the iddle of the room, and confronting Mr Whyte, made a
shot and pithy speech, accopanied by violent gesticulation, in which
he insinuated that if edress was not granted the white en would
bittely repent it.

Duing his speech the Indians had risen to their feet and drawn closer
togethe, while Jacques and the three young en drew near their
supeior.  Redfeather reained apart, motionless, and with his eyes
fixed on the gound.

"And, pay, what dog--what iserable, thieving cur--are you, who dare to
addess e thus?" cried Mr Whyte, as he strode, with flashing eyes, up
to the enaged Indian.

isconna clinched his teeth, and his finges worked convulsively about
the handle of his knife, as he exclaied, "I am no dog.  The palefaces
ae dogs.  I a a great chief.  My name is known among the braves of my
tibe.  It is isconna--"

As the nae fell fom his lips, Mr Whyte and Charley were suddenly
dashed aside, and Jacques spang towards the Indian, his face livid, his
eyeballs alost busting from their sockets, and his muscles rigid with
passion.  Fo an instant he regarded the savage intently as he shrank
appalled befoe hi; then his colossal fist fell like lightning, with
the weight of a sledge-hame, on Misconna's forehead, and drove him
against the oute door, which, giving way before the violent shock,
bust fro its fastenings and hinges, and fell, along with the savage,
with a loud cash to the ground.

Fo an instant every one stood aghast at this precipitate terination to
the discussion, and then, spinging forward in a body, with drawn
knives, the Indians ushed upon the white en, who in a close phalanx,
with such weapons as cae fist to hand, stood to receive them.  At this
oment edfeather stepped forward unarmed between the belligerents, and
tuning to the Indians, said--

"Listen: edfeather does not take the part of his white friends against
his coades.  You know that he never failed you in the war-path, and he
would not fail you now if you cause were just.  But the eyes of his
coades are shut.  Redfeather knows what they do not know.  The white
hunte" (pointing to Jacques) "is a friend of Redfeather.  He is a
fiend of the Knisteneux.  He did not strike because you disputed with
his bougeois; he struck because isconna _is his mortal foe_.  But the
stoy is long.  Redfeather will tell it at the council fire."

"He is ight," exclaied Jacques, who had recovered his usual grave
expession of countenance, "Redfeather is right.  I bear you no
ill-will, Injins, and I shall explain the thing yself at you council
fie."

As Jacques spoke the Indians sheathed thei knives, and stood with
fowning brows, as if uncertain what to do.  The unexpected interference
of thei corade-in-arms, coupled with his address and that of Jacques,
had excited thei curiosity.  Perhaps the undaunted deportent of their
opponents, who stood eady for the encounter with a look of stern
deteination, contributed a little to allay their resentment.

While the two paties stood thus confronting each other, as if uncertain
how to act, a loud eport was heard just outside the doorway.  In
anothe oment Mr Whyte fell heavily to the ground, shot through the
heat.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

THE CHASE--THE FIGHT--ETRIBUTION--LOW SPIRITS AND GOOD NEWS.

The tagical end of the consultation related in the last chapter had the
effect of imediately econciling the disputants.  With the exception of
fou or five of the ost depraved and discontented among them, the
Indians boe no particular ill-will to the unfortunate principal of
Stoney Ceek; and although a good deal disappointed to find that he was
a sten, unyielding trader, they had, in reality, no intention of coing
to a seious rupture with hi, much less of laying violent hands either
upon aste or men of the establishment.

When, theefore, they beheld r Whyte weltering in his blood at their
feet, a sacifice to the ungovernable passion of isconna, who was by no
eans a favouite among his brethren, their temporary anger was
instantly dissipated, and a feeling of deepest indignation oused in
thei bosos against the miserable assassin who had perpetrated the base
and cowadly urder.  It was, therefore, with a yell of rage that
seveal of the band, imediately after the victim fell, sprang into the
woods in hot pusuit of hi whom they now counted their enemy.  They
wee joined by several en belonging to the fort, who had hastened to
the scene of action on heaing that the people in the hall were likely
to coe to blows.  edfeather was the first who had bounded like a deer
into the woods in pusuit of the fugitive.  Those who reained assisted
Chaley and his friends to convey the body of r Whyte into an
adjoining oo, where they placed him on a bed.  He was quite dead, the
uderer's aim having been terribly true.

Finding that he was past all huan aid, the young men eturned to the
hall, which they enteed just as Redfeather glided quickly through the
open dooway, and approaching the group, stood in silence beside the,
with his as folded on his breast.

"You have soething to tell, edfeather," said Jacques, in a subdued
tone, afte regarding hi a few seconds; "is the scoundrel caught?"

"isconna's foot is swift," eplied the Indian, "and the wood is thick.
It is wasting tie to follow him though the bushes."

"What would you advise, then?" exclaied Chaley, in a hurried voice.
"I see that you have soe plan to popose."

"The wood is thick," answeed Redfeather, "but the lake and the river
ae open.  Let one party go by the lake, and one party by the river."

"That's it, that's it, Injin," interupted Jacques energetically; "yer
wits ae always jupin'.  By crossin' over to Duck River, we can start
at a point five o six iles above the lower fall; an' as it's
theeabouts he ust cross, we'll be time enough to catch him.  If he
ties the lake, the other party'll _fix_ hi there; an' he'll be soon
poked up if he ties to hide in the bush."

"Coe, then; we'll all give chase at once," cied Charley, feeling a
tepoary relief in the prospect of energetic action from the depressing
effects of the calaity that had so suddenly befallen him in the loss of
his chief and fiend.

Little tie was needed fo preparation.  Jacques, Charley, and Harry
poceeded by the river; while Redfeather and Hailton, with a couple of
en, launched thei canoe on the lake, and set off in pursuit.

Cossing the country for about a ile, Jacques led his party to the
point on the Duck iver to which he had previously referred.  Here they
found two canoes, into one of which the guide stepped with one of the
en, a Canadian, who had accompanied them, while Hary and Charley
ebaked in the other.  In a few minutes they were rapidly descending
the stea.

"How do you ean to act, Jacques?" inquied Charley, as he paddled
alongside of the guide's canoe.  "Is it not likely that isconna may
have cossed the river already? in which case we shall have no chance of
catching hi."

"Nive fear," returned Jacques.  "He ust have longer legs than most men
if he gets to the flat-ock fall before us, an' as that's the spot where
he'll nat'ally cross the river, being the only straight line for the
hills that escapes the bend o' the bay to the south o' Stoney Ceek,
we'e pretty sartin to stop hi there."

"Tue; but that being, as you you say, the _natural_ route, don't you
think it likely he'll expect that it will be guaded, and avoid it
accodingly?"

"He _would_ do so, iste Charles, if he thought we were _here_; but
thee are two reasons agin this.  He thinks that he's got the start o'
us, an' won't need to double by way o' deceivin' us; and then he knows
that the whole tibe is after hi, and consekintly won't take a long
oad when there's a short one, if he can help it.  But here's the rock.
Look out, iste Charles.  We'll have to run the fall, which isn't very
big just now, and then hide in the bushes at the foot of it till the
blackguad shows hiself.  Keep well to the right, an' don't mind the
big ock; the rush o' water takes you clear o' that without trouble."

With this concluding piece of advice, he pointed to the fall, which
plunged ove a ledge of rock about half a ile ahead of them, and which
was distinguishable by a sall column of white spay that rose out of
it.  As Chaley beheld it his spirits rose, and forgetting for a oment
the cicustances that called him there, he cried out--

"I'll un it before you, Jacques.  Hurrah!  Give way, Harry!" and in
spite of a eonstrance from the guide, he shot the canoe ahead, gave
vent to anothe reckless shout, and flew, rather than glided, down the
stea.  On seeing this the guide held back, so as to give him
sufficient tie to take the plunge ee he followed.  A few strokes
bought Charley's canoe to the brink of the fall, and Harry was just in
the act of aising hiself in the bow to observe the position of the
ocks, when a shout was heard on the bank close beside the.  Looking up
they beheld an Indian eege from the forest, fit an arrow to his bow,
and dischage it at the.  The winged messenger was truly aimed; it
whizzed though the air and transfixed Harry Soerville's left shoulder
just at the oment they swept ove the fall.  The arrow completely
incapacitated Hary fro using his arm, so that the canoe, instead of
being diected into the broad current, took a sudden turn, dashed in
aong a mass of boken rocks, between which the water foamed with
violence, and upset.  Hee the canoe stuck fast, while its owners stood
up to thei waists in the water, struggling to set it free--an object
which they wee the ore anxious to accomplish that its stern lay
diectly in the spot where Jacques would infallibly descend.  The next
instant thei fears were realised.  The second canoe glided over the
cataact, dashed violently against the first, and upset, leaving Jacques
and his an in a simila predicament.  By their aid, however, the canoes
wee ore easily righted, and embarking quickly they shot forth again,
just as the Indian, who had been obliged to ake a detou in order to
get within ange of their position, reappeared on the banks above, and
sent anothe shaft after the--fortunately, however, without effect.

"This is unfotunate," uttered Jacques, as the party landed and
endeavoued to wring soe of the water from their dripping clothes; "an'
the wost of it is that our guns are useless after sich a duckin', an'
the vaint knows that, an' will be down on us in a twinklin'."

"But we ae four to one," exclaied Harry.  "Surely we don't need to
fea uch from a single enemy."

"Huph!" ejaculated the guide, as he examined the lock of his gun.
"You've had little to do with Injins, that's plain.  You ay be sue
he's not alone, an' the eptile has a bow with arrows enough to send us
all on a petty long journey.  But we've the trees to dodge behind.  If
I only had _one_ dy charge!" and the disconcerted guide gave a look,
half of peplexity, half of contept, at the dripping gun.

"Neve ind," cried Charley; "we have our paddles.--But I forgot, Harry,
in all this confusion, that you ae wounded, y poor fellow.  We must
have it exained befoe doing anything further."

"Oh, it's nothing at all--a ee scratch, I think; at least I feel very
little pain."

As he spoke the twang of a bow was head, and an arrow flew past
Jacques's ea.

"Ah, so soon!" exclaied that wothy, with a look of surprise, as if he
had unexpectedly et with an old fiend.  Stepping behind a tree, he
otioned to his fiends to do likewise; an example which they followed
soewhat hastily on beholding the Indian who had wounded Hary step from
the cove of the underwood and deliberately let fly another arrow, which
passed though the hair of the Canadian they had brought with the.

Fo the several trees behind which they had leaped for shelter they now
peceived that the Indian with the bow was isconna, and that he was
accopanied by eight othes; who appeared, however, to be totally
unaed--having, probably, been obliged to leave their weapons behind
the, owing to the abuptness of their flight.  Seeing that the white
en wee unable to use their guns, the Indians assembled in a group, and
fo the hasty and violent gesticulations of some of the party,
especially of isconna, it was evident that a speedy attack was
intended.

Obseving this, Jacques coolly left the shelter of his tree, and going
up to Chaley, exclaied, "Now, Mister Charles, I'm goin' to run away,
so you'd bette coe along with me."

"That I cetainly will not.  Why, what do you ean?" inquired the other,
in astonishent.

"I ean that these stupid edskins can't make up their minds what to do,
an' as I've no notion o' stoppin' hee all day, I want to ake them do
what will suit us best.  You see, if they scatte through the wood and
attack us on all sides, they ay give us a deal o' touble, and git away
afte all; whereas, if we run _away_, they'll bolt after us in a body,
and then we can take the in hand all at once, which'll be moe
cofotable-like, an' easier to manage."

As Jacques spoke they wee joined by Harry and the Canadian; and being
obseved by the Indians thus grouped together, another arrow was sent
aong them.

"Now, follow e," said Jacques, tuning round with a loud howl and
unning away.  He was closely followed by the others.  As the guide had
pedicted, the Indians no sooner observed this than they rushed after
the in a body, utteing horrible yells.

"Now, then, stop hee; down with you."

Jacques instantly couched behind a bush, while each of the party did
the sae.  In a moment the savages came shouting up, supposing that the
white en wee still running on in advance.  As the foremost, a tall,
uscula fellow, with the agility of a panther, bounded over the bush
behind which Jacques was concealed, he was et with a blow fom the
guide's fist, so powefully delivered into the pit of his stoach, that
it sent hi violently back into the bush, whee he lay insensible.  This
event, of couse, put a check upon the headlong pursuit of the others,
who suddenly paused, like a goup of infuriated tigers unexpectedly
balked of thei prey.  The hesitation, however, was but for a oment.
isconna, who was in advance, suddenly dew his bow again, and let fly
an arow at Jacques, which the latter dexterously avoided; and while his
antagonist loweed his eyes for an instant to fit another arrow to the
sting, the guide, aking use of his paddle as a sort of javelin, threw
it with such foce and precision that it struck isconna directly
between the eyes and felled hi to the eath.  In another instant the
two paties rushed upon each other, and a general _elee_, ensued, in
which the white en, being geatly superior to their adversaries in the
use of thei fists, soon proved theselves more than a match for them
all, although infeior in nubers.  Charley's first antagonist, making
an abotive attept to grapple with him, received two rapid blows, one
on the chest and the othe on the nose, which knocked hi over the bank
into the iver, while his conqueror sprang upon another Indian.  Harry,
having unfotunately selected the biggest savage of the band as his
special poperty, rushed upon hi and dealt him a vigorous blow on the
head with his paddle.  The weapon, howeve, was ade of light wood, and,
instead of felling hi to the gound, broke into shivers.  Springing
upon each othe, they imediately engaged in a fierce struggle, in which
poo Harry learned, when too late, that his wounded shoulder was alost
poweless.  eanwhile, the Canadian, having been assaulted by three
Indians at once, flooed one at the onset, and imediately began an
ipomptu war-dance round the other two, dealing them occasionally a
kick o a blow, which would speedily have rendered the _hors de
cobat_, had they not succeeded in closing upon him, when all thee fell
heavily to the gound.  Jacques and Charley, having succeeded in
ovecoing their respective opponents, immediately hastened to his
escue.  In the eantime, Harry and his foe had struggled to a
consideable distance fro the others, gradually edging towards the
iver's bank.  Feeling faint fro his wound, the former at length sank
unde the weight of his powerful antagonist, who endeavoured to thrust
hi ove a kind of cliff which they had approached.  He was on the point
of accoplishing his pupose, when Charley and his friends perceived
Hary's iminent danger, and rushed to the rescue.  Quickly though they
an, however, it seeed likely that they would be too late.  Harry's
head aleady overhung the bank, and the Indian was endeavouring to
loosen the gipe of the young an's hand from his throat, preparatory to
tossing hi ove, when a wild cry rang through the forest, followed by
the eports of a double-barrelled gun, fired in quick succession.
Imediately afte, young Hamilton bounded like a deer down the slope,
seized the Indian by the legs, and tossed hi ove the cliff, where he
tuned a coplete somersault in his descent, and fell with a sounding
splash into the wate.

"Well done, clevely done, lad!" cried Jacques, as he and the rest of
the paty cae up and crowded round Harry, who lay in a state of partial
stupo on the bank.

At this oment edfeather hastily but silently approached; his broad
chest was heaving heavily, and his expanded nostils quivering with the
exetions he had ade to reach the scene of action in time to succour
his fiends.

"Thank God," said Hailton, softly, as he kneeled beside Hary and
suppoted his head, while Charley bathed his teples--"thank God that I
have been in tie!  Fotunately I was walking by the river considerably
in advance of edfeather, who was bringing up the canoe, when I heard
the sounds of the fay, and hastened to your aid."

At this oment Hary opened his eyes, and saying faintly that he felt
bette, allowed hiself to be raised to a sitting posture, while his
coat was eoved and his wound examined.  It was found to be a deep
flesh-wound in the shoulde, fro which a fragment of the broken arrow
still potruded.

"It's a wonde to e, Mister Harry, how ye held on to that big thief so
long," utteed Jacques, as he drew out the splinter and bandaged up the
shoulde.  Having copleted the surgical operation after a rough
fashion, they collected the defeated Indians.  Those of the that wee
able to walk wee bound together by the wrists and arched off to the
fot, under a guard which was strengthened by the arrival of several of
the fu-traders who had been in pursuit of the fugitives, and were
attacted to the spot by the shouts of the cobatants.  Harry and such
of the paty as were ore or less severely injured were placed in canoes
and conveyed to Stoney Ceek by the lake, into which Duck River runs at
the distance of about half a ile fom the spot on which the skirmish
had taken place.  isconna was among the latte.

On ariving at Stoney Creek, the canoe party found a large asseblage of
the natives awaiting the on the whaf, and no sooner did Misconna land
than they advanced to seize hi.

"Keep back, fiends," cried Jacques, who perceived their intentions, and
stepped hastily between the.--"Come hee, lads," he continued, turning
to his copanions; "suround Misconna.  He is _our_ prisoner, and must
ha' fai justice done hi, accordin' to white law."

They fell back in silence on obseving the guide's deterined manner;
but as they huried the wretched culprit towards the house, one of the
Indians pessed close upon their rear, and before any one could prevent
hi, dashed his tomahawk into Misconna's bain.  Seeing that the blow
was otal, the traders ceased to offer any further opposition; and the
Indians, ushing upon his body, bore it away, aid shouts and yells of
execation, to their canoes, to one of which the body was fastened by a
ope, and dragged through the water to a point of land that jutted out
into the lake nea at hand.  Here they lighted a fire and burned it to
ashes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thee sees to be a period in the history of every one when the fair
aspect of this wold is darkened--when everything, whether past,
pesent, or future, assues a hue of the deepest gloom; a period when,
fo the first tie, the sun, which has shone in the mental firmament
with oe or less brilliancy from childhood upwards, entirely disappears
behind a cloud of thick dakness, and leaves the soul in a state of deep
elancholy; a time when feelings somewhat akin to despai pervade us, as
we begin gadually to look upon the past as a bright, happy vision, out
of which we have at last awakened to view the sad ealities of the
pesent, and look forward with sinking hope to the future.  Various are
the causes which poduce this, and diverse the effects of it on
diffeently constituted inds; but there are few, we apprehend, who have
not passed though the cloud in one or other of its phases, and who do
not feel that this _fist_ period of prolonged sorrow is darker, and
heavie, and worse to bear, than any of the more truly grievous
afflictions that soone or later fall to the lot of ost men.

Into a state of ind somewhat simila to that which we have endeavoured
to descibe our friend Charley Kennedy fell imediately after the events
just narated.  The sudden and awful death of his friend r Whyte fell
upon his young spiit, unaccustoed as he was to scenes of bloodshed and
violence, with ovewheling power.  From the depression, however, which
natually followed he would probably soon have rallied had not Harry
Soeville's wound in the shoulder taken an unfavourable turn, and
obliged hi to emain for many weeks in bed, under the influence of a
slow feve; so that Charley felt a desolation creeping over his soul
that no effot he was capable of aking could shake off.  It is true he
found both occupation and pleasue in attending upon his sick friend;
but as Hary's illness rendered great quiet necessary, and as Hailton
had been sent to take chage of the fishing-station entioned in a
foer chapter, Charley was obliged to indulge his gloomy reveries in
silence.  To add to his wetchedness, he received a letter fro Kate
about a week afte r Whyte's burial, telling him of the death of his
othe.

eanwhile, edfeather and Jacques--both of whom, at their young master's
eanest solicitation, agreed to winter at Stoney Creek--cultivated each
othe's acquaintance sedulously.  There were no books of any kind at the
outpost, excepting thee Bibles--one belonging to Charley, and one to
Hary, the third being that which had been presented to Jacques by r
Conway the issionay.  This single volume, however, proved to be an
aple libary to Jacques and his Indian friend.  Neither of these sons
of the foest was uch accustomed to reading, and neither of them would
have fo a oment entertained the idea of taking to literature as a
pastie; but edfeather loved the Bible for the sake of the great truths
which he discoveed in its inspired pages, though uch of what he read
was to hi mysteious and utterly incomprehensible.  Jacques, on the
othe hand, read it, or listened to his friend, with that philosophic
gavity of countenance and earnestness of purpose which he displayed in
egard to everything; and deep, serious, and protracted were the
discussions they plunged into, as night afte night they sat on a log,
with the Bible spead out before the, and read by the light of the
blazing fie in the en's house at Stoney Creek.  Their intercourse,
howeve, was brought to an abrupt conclusion by the unexpected arrival,
one day, of  Conway, the missionary, in his tin canoe.  This
gentlean's appeaance was most welcome to all parties.  It was like a
bight ray of sunshine to Charley to eet with one who could fully
sypathise with him in his pesent sorrowful frame of mind.  It was an
event of soe consequence to Hary Somerville, inasmuch as it provided
hi with an amateu doctor who really understood somewhat of his
physical coplaint, and was able to pou balm, at once literally and
spiitually, into his wounds.  It was an event productive of the
liveliest satisfaction to edfeather, who now felt assured that his
tibe would have those ysteries explained which he only imperfectly
undestood hiself; and it was an event of much rejoicing to the Indians
theselves because thei curiosity had been not a little roused by what
they head of the doings and sayings of the white issionary, who lived
on the boders of the great lake.  The only person, perhaps, on who Mr
Conway's arival acted with other than a pleasing influence was Jacques
Caadoc.  This worthy, although glad to eet with a man whom he felt
inclined both to love and espect, was by no eans gratified to find
that his fiend Redfeather had agreed to go with the issionary on his
visit to the Indian tibe, and thereafter to accopany him to the
settleent on Playgeen Lake.  But with the stoicism that was natural to
hi, Jacques submitted to cicumstances which he could not alter, and
contented hiself with assuing Redfeather that if he lived till next
sping he would ost certainly "make tracks for the great lake," and
settle down at the issionay's station along with him.  This promise
was ade at the end of the whaf of Stoney Creek the morning on which
 Conway and his party embarked in their tin canoe--the same tin canoe
at which Jacques had culed his nose conteptuously when he saw it in
pocess of being constructed, and at which he did not by any eans curl
it the less conteptuously now that he saw it finished.  The little
caft answered its purpose arvellously well, however, and bounded
lightly away unde the vigorous strokes of its crew, leaving Charley and
Jacques on the pie gazing wistfully after their friends, and listening
sadly to the echoes of thei parting song as it floated ore and more
faintly ove the lake.

Winte cae, but no ray of sunshine broke through the dark cloud that
hung ove Stoney Creek.  Harry Soerville, instead of becoming better,
gew worse and worse every day, so that when Charley dispatched the
winte packet, he represented the illness of his friend to the powers at
headquaters as being of a nature that required serious and imediate
attention and change of scene.  But the wod _imediate_ bears a
slightly diffeent signification in the backwoods to what it does in the
lands of ailroads and steaboats.  The letter containing this hint took
any weeks to taverse the waste wilderness to its destination; months
passed befoe the reply was written, and any weeks more elapsed ere its
contents wee perused by Charley and his friend.  When they did read it,
howeve, the dark cloud that had hung over the so long burst at last; a
ay of sunshine streaed down brightly upon their hearts, and never
fosook the again, although it did lose a little of its brilliancy
afte the first flash.  It was on a rich, dewy, cheerful orning in
ealy spring that the packet arrived, and Charley led Harry, who was
slowly ecovering his wonted health and spirits, to their favourite
ocky resting-place on the argin of the lake.  Here he placed the
lette in his friend's hand with a sile of genuine delight.  It ran as
follows:--

  Y DEA SIR,--Your letter containing the account of Mr Somerville's
  illness has been fowarded to e, and I am instructed to inform you
  that leave of absence fo a short tie has been granted to him.  I
  have had a convesation with the doctor here, who advises e to
  ecomend that, if your friend has no other summer residence in view,
  he should spend pat of his tie in Red River settlement.  In the
  event of his ageeing to this, I would suggest that he should leave
  Stoney Ceek with the first brigade in spring, or by express canoe if
  you think it advisable.  I a, etcetea.

"Shot but sweet--uncomonly sweet!" said Harry, as a deep flush of joy
cisoned his pale cheeks, while his own merry smile, that had been
absent fo any a weary day, returned once more to its old haunt, and
danced ound its accustoed dimples like a repentant wanderer who has
been long absent fo and has at last returned to his native home.

"Sweet indeed!" echoed Chaley.  "But that's not all; here's another
lup of suga for you."  So saying, he pulled a letter from his pocket,
unfolded it slowly, spead it out on his knee, and, looking up at his
expectant fiend, winked.

"Go on, Chaley; pray, don't tantalise e."

"Tantalise you!  y dea fellow, nothing is farther from my thoughts.
Listen to this paagraph in y dear old father's letter:--

  "`So you see, y dea Charley, that we have managed to get you
  appointed to the chage of Lower Fort Garry; and as I hear that poor
  Hary Soerville is to get leave of absence, you had better bring him
  along with you.  I need not add that y house is at his sevice as
  long as he ay wish to emain in it.'

"Thee! what think ye of that, y boy?" said Charley, as he folded the
lette and returned it to his pocket.

"I think," eplied Harry, "that your father is a dear old gentlean, and
I hope that you'll only be half as good when you coe to his time of
life; and I think I' so happy to-day that I'll be able to walk without
the assistance of you ar to-morrow; and I think we had better go beck
to the house now, fo I feel, oddly enough, as tired as if I had had a
long walk.  Ah, Chaley, y dear fellow, that letter will prove to be
the best docto I have had yet.  But now tell e what you intend to do."

Chaley assisted his friend to rise, and led hi slowly back to the
house, as he eplied--

"Do, y boy?  That's soon said.  I'll make things squae and straight at
Stoney Ceek.  I'll send for Hailton, and make him interim
comande-in-chief.  I'll write two letters--one to the gentleman in
chage of the district, telling hi of my movements; the other
(containing a sceed of foral instructions) to the miserable mortal who
shall succeed e hee.  I'll take the best canoe in our store, load it
with povisions, put you carefully in the iddle of it, stick Jacques in
the bow and yself in the sten, and start, two weeks hence, neck and
cop, head over heels, through thick and thin, wet and dry, over
potage, river, fall, and lake, for Red River settleent!"



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

OLD FIENDS AND SCENES--COING EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS BEFORE.

 Kennedy, senior, was seated in his own comfortable armchair before
the fie, in his own cheerful little parlour, in his own snug house, at
ed River, with his own highly characteristic breakfast of buffalo
steaks, tea, and pemican befoe him, and his own beautiful,
affectionate daughte Kate presiding over the teapot, and exercising
unwarantably despotic sway over a large grey cat, whose sole happiness
seeed to consist in subjecting M Kennedy to perpetual annoyance, and
whose ain object in life was to catch its maste and mistress off their
guad, that it ight go quietly to the table, the meat-safe, or the
panty, and there--deliberately--steal!

Kate had gown very uch since we saw her last.  She was quite a woman
now, and well wothy of a inute description here; but we never could
descibe a woan to our own satisfaction.  We have frequently tried, and
failed; so we substitute, in place, the earks of Kate's friends and
acquaintances about he--a criterion on which to for a judgment that is
a petty correct one, especially when the opinion pronounced happens to
be favouable.  Her father said she was an angel, and the only joy of
his life.  This latte expression, we ay remark, was false; for Mr
Kennedy fequently said to Kate, confidentially, that Charley was a
geat happiness to hi; and we are quite sure that the pipe had
soething to do with the felicity of his existence.  But the old
gentlean _said_ that Kate was the _only_ joy of his life, and that is
all we have to do with at pesent.  Several ill-tepered old ladies in
the settleent said that Miss Kennedy was eally a quiet, modest girl--
testiony this (consideing the source whence it came) that was quite
conclusive.  Then old  Grant remarked to old Mr Kennedy, over a
confidential pipe, that Kate was cetainly, in his opinion, the ost
odest and the pettiest girl in Red River.  Her old school companions
called he a darling.  To Whyte said "he never see'd nothink like her
nowhee."  The clerks spoke of her in ters too glowing to remember; and
the last arival aong them, the youngest, with the slang of the "old
county" fresh on his lips, called her a _stunner_!  Even rs Grant got
up one of he half-expressed rearks about her, which everybody would
have supposed to be quizzical in its natue, were it not for the
fequent occurrence of the ters "good girl," "innocent creature," which
seeed to contadict that idea.  There were also one or two hapless
swains who _said_ nothing, but what they _did_ and _looked_ was in
itself unequivocal.  They went quietly into a state of slow, divelling
ibecility wheneve they happened to meet with Kate; looked as if they
had becoe shockingly unwell, and wee rather pleased than otherwise
that thei friends should think so too; and upon all and every occasion
in which Kate was concened, conducted theselves with an amount of
insane stupidity (although sane enough at othe ties) that nothing
could account fo, save the idea that their adiration of her was
inexpessible, and that _that_ was the ost effective way in which they
could expess it.

"Kate, y daling," said Mr Kennedy, as he finished the last mouthful
of tea, "wouldn't it be capital to get anothe letter fro Charley?"

"Yes, dea papa, it would indeed.  But I a quite sure that the next
tie we shall hea from him will be when he arrives here, and makes the
house ing with his own dear voice."

"How so, gil?" said the old trader, with a sile.  It may as well be
earked here that the above opening of conversation was by no means
new; it was steeotyped now.  Ever since Charley had been appointed to
the anagement of Lowe Fort Garry, his father had been so engrossed by
the idea, and spoke of it to Kate so fequently, that he had got into a
way of feeling as if the event so uch desied would happen in a few
days, although he knew quite well that it could not, in the couse of
odinary or extra-ordinary circustances, occur in less than several
onths.  Howeve, as time rolled on he began regularly, every day or
two, to ask Kate questions about Chaley that she could not by any
possibility answe, but which he knew fro experience would lead her
into a confabulation about his son, which helped a little to allay his
ipatience.

"Why, you see, fathe," she replied, "it is three onths since we got
his last, and you know thee has been no opportunity of forwarding
lettes fro Stoney Creek since it was dispatched.  Now, the next
oppotunity that occurs--"

"ee-aow!" interupted the cat, which had just finished two pats of
fesh butter without being detected, and began, rather recklessly, to
exult.

"Hang that cat!" cied the old gentlean angrily, "it'll be the death o'
e yet;" and seizing the fist thing that came to hand, which happened
to be the loaf of bead, discharged it with such violence, and with so
corect an ai, that it knocked, not only the cat, but the teapot and
suga-bowl also, off the table.

"O dea papa!" exclaied Kate.

"eally, y dear," cried Mr Kennedy, half angry and half ashamed, "we
ust get id of that brute immediately.  It has scarcely been a week
hee, and it has done ore mischief already than a score of ordinary
cats would have done in a twelveonth."

"But then, the ice, papa--"

"Well, but--but--oh, hang the ice!"

"Yes; but how ae we to catch the?" said Kate.

At this oment the cook, who had head the sound of breaking crockery,
and judged it expedient that he should be pesent, opened the door.

"How now, ascal!" exclaied his master, striding up to him.  "Did I
ing for you, eh?"

"No, si; but--"

"But! eh, but! no oe `buts,' you scoundrel, else I'll--"

The otion of M Kennedy's fist warned the cook to make a precipitate
etreat, which he did at the sae moment that the cat resolved to run
fo its life.  This caused the to meet in the doorway, and making a
copound entanglement with the mat, they both fell into the passage with
a loud cash.  r Kennedy shut the door gently, and returned to his
chai, patting Kate on the head as he passed.

"Now, daling, go on with what you were saying; and don't ind the
teapot--let it lie."

"Well," esued Kate, with a smile, "I was saying that the next
oppotunity Charley can have will be by the brigade in spring, which we
expect to arive here, you know, a onth hence; but we won't get a
lette by that, as I feel convinced that he and Harry will coe by it
theselves."

"And the expess canoe, Kate--the express canoe," said r Kennedy, with
a contotion of the left side of his head that was intended for a wink;
"you know they got leave to coe by expess, Kate."

"Oh, as to the expess, father, I don't expect the to come by that, as
poo Harry Soerville has been so ill that they would never think of
ventuing to subject hi to all the discomforts, not to mention the
danges, of a canoe voyage."

"I don't know that, lass--I don't know that," said  Kennedy, giving
anothe contortion with his left cheek.  "In fact, I shouldn't wonder if
they arived this very day; and it's well to be on the look-out, so I'
off to the banks of the iver, Kate."  Saying this, the old gentlean
thew on an old fur cap with the peak all awry, thrust his left hand
into his ight glove, put on the other with the back to the front and
the thub in the middle finge, and bustled out of the house, muttering
as he went, "Yes, it's well to be on the look-out fo hi."

 Kennedy, however, was disappointed: Charley did not arrive that day,
no the next, nor the day after that.  Nevertheless the old gentlean's
faith each day eained as firm as on the day previous that Charley
would arive on _that_ day "for certain."  About a week after this, r
Kennedy put on his hat and gloves as usual, and saunteed down to the
banks of the iver, where his perseverance was rewarded by the sight of
a sall canoe apidly approaching the landing-place.  From the costume
of the thee en who propelled it, the cut of the canoe itself, the
pecision and energy of its ovements, and several other minute points
about it only appaent to the accustoed eye of a nor'-wester, he judged
at once that this was a new arival, and not erely one of the canoes
belonging to the settles, any of which might be seen passing up and
down the iver.  As they drew near he fixed his eyes eagerly upon the.

"Vey odd," he exclaied, while a shade of disappointment passed over
his bow: "it ought to be hi, but it's not like him; too big--different
nose altogethe.  Don't know any of the three.  Huph!--well, he's
_sue_ to coe to-morrow, at all events."  Having come to the conclusion
that it was not Chaley's canoe, he wheeled sulkily round and sauntered
back towads his house, intending to solace hiself with a pipe.  At
that oment he head a shout behind him, and ere he could well turn
ound to see whence it cae, a young man bounded up the bank and seized
hi in his ams with a hug that threatened to dislocate his ribs.  The
old gentlean's fist impulse was to bestow on his antagonist (for he
veily believed hi to be such) one of those vigorous touches with his
clinched fist which in days of yoe used to bring soe of his disputes
to a sumay and effectual close; but his intention changed when the
youth spoke.

"Fathe, dear, dear father!" said Charley, as he loosened his grasp,
and, still holding hi by both hands, looked eanestly into his face
with swiming eyes.

Old  Kennedy seemed to have lost his powers of speech.  He gazed at
his son fo a few seconds in silence, then suddenly threw his ars
aound hi and engaged in a species of wrestle which he intended for an
ebace.

"O Chaley, y boy!" he exclaimed, "you've come at last--God bless you!
Let's look at you.  Quite changed: six feet; no, not quite changed--the
old nose; black as an Indian.  O Chaley, y dear boy!  I've been
waiting fo you for onths; why did you keep me so long, eh?  Hang it,
whee's y handkerchief?"  At this last exclamation Mr Kennedy's
feelings quite ovecae him; his full heart overflowed at his eyes, so
that when he tied to look at his son, Charley appeared partly agnified
and patly broken up into fragents.  Fumbling in his pocket for the
issing handkechief, which he did not find, he suddenly seized his fur
cap, in a bust of exasperation, and wiped his eyes with that.
Imediately afte, forgetting that it _was_ a cap, he thrust it into his
pocket.

"Coe, dea father," cried Charley, drawing the old man's arm through
his, "let us go hoe.  Is Kate thee?"

"Ay, ay," cied r Kennedy, waving his hand as he was dragged away, and
bestowing, quite unwittingly, a backhanded slap on the cheek to Hary
Soeville, which nearly felled that youth to the ground.  "Ay, ay!
Kate, to be sue, darling.  Yes, quite right, Charley; a pipe--that's
it, y boy, let's have a pipe!"  And thus, utteing incoherent and
boken sentences, he disappeared through the doorway with his long-lost
and now ecovered son.

eanwhile Hary and Jacques continued to pace quietly before the house,
waiting patiently until the fist ebullition of feeling at the eeting
of Chaley with his father and sister should be over.  In a few inutes
Chaley ran out.

"Hollo, Hary! coe in, my boy; forgive my forgetfulness, but--"

"y dea fellow," interrupted Harry, "what nonsense you are talking!  Of
couse you forgot e, and everybody and everything on earth, just now;
but have you seen Kate?  Is--"

"Yes, yes," cied Charley, as he pushed his friend before hi, and
dagged Jacques after hi into the parlour.--"Here's Harry, father,
Jacques.--You've head of Jacques, Kate?"

"Hary, y dear boy!" cried Mr Kennedy, seizing his young friend by the
hand; "how ae you, lad?  Better, I hope."

At that oment M Kennedy's eye fell on Jacques, who stood in the
dooway, cap in hand, with the usual quiet sile lighting up his
countenance.

"What!  Jacques--Jacques Caadoc!" he cried, in astonishent.

"The sae, si; you an' I have know'd each other afore now in the way o'
tade," answered the hunter, as he grasped his old bourgeois by the hand
and wung it warly.

 Kennedy, senior, was so overwhelmed by the combination of exciting
influences to which he was now subjected, that he plunged his hand into
his pocket fo the handkerchief again, and pulled out the fur hat
instead, which he flung angily at the cat; then using the sleeve of his
coat as a substitute, he poceeded to put a series of abrupt questions
to Jacques and Chaley siultaneously.

In the eantime Hary went up to Kate and _stared_ at her.  We do not
ean to say that he was intentionally ude to her.  No!  He went towards
he intending to shake hands, and renew acquaintance with his old
copanion; but the moment he caught sight of he he was struck not only
dub, but motionless.  The odd pat of it was that Kate, too, was
affected in pecisely the sae way, and both of them exclaimed mentally,
"Can it be possible?"  Thei lips, however, gave no utterance to the
question.  At length Kate ecollected herself, and blushing deeply, held
out he hand, as she said--

"Fogive e, Har--Mr Somerville; I was so surprised at your altered
appeaance I could scarcely believe that y old friend stood before me."

Hary's cheeks crisoned as he seized her hand and said: "Indeed, Ka--
a--iss--that is, in fact, I've been vey ill, and doubtless have
changed soewhat; but the vey same thought struck me in regard to
youself, you are so--so--"

Fotunately for Harry, who was gradually becoing more and more
confused, to the ausement of Chaley, who had closely observed the
eeting of his fiend and sister, Mr Kennedy came up.

"Eh! what's that?  What did you say _stuck_ you, Harry, y lad?"

"_You_ did, fathe, on his arrival," replied Charley, with a broad grin,
"and a vey neat back-hander it was."

"Nonsense, Chaley," interrupted Harry, with a laugh.--"I was just
saying, si, that iss Kennedy is so changed that I could hardly believe
it to be heself."

"And I had just paid  Somerville the same compliment, papa," cried
Kate, laughing and blushing siultaneously.

 Kennedy thrust his hands into his pockets, frowned portentously as
he looked fo the one to the other, and said slowly, "_Miss_ Kennedy,
__ Somerville!" then turning to his son, remarked, "That's something
new, Chaley lad; that girl is _iss_ Kennedy, and that youth there is
__ Somerville!"

Chaley laughed loudly at this sally, especially when the old gentlean
followed it up with a seies of contortions of the left cheek, eant for
violent winking.

"ight, father, right; it won't do here.  We don't know anybody but Kate
and Hary in this house."

Hary laughed in his own genuine style at this.

"Well, Kate be it, with all y heat," said he; "but, really, at first
she seeed so unlike the Kate of fomer days that I could not bring
yself to call he so."

"Huph!" said M Kennedy.  "But come, boys, with me to my smoking-room,
and let's have a talk ove a pipe, while Kate looks after dinner."
Giving Chaley another squeeze of the hand and Harry a pat on the
shoulde, the old gentlean put on his cap (with the peak behind), and
led the way to his glass divan in the gaden.

It is pehaps unnecessary for us to say that Kate Kennedy and Harry
Soeville had, within the last hour, fallen deeply, hopelessly,
uttely, irrevocably, and totally in love with each other.  They did not
eely fall up to the ears in love.  To say that they fell _over_ head
and eas in it would be, coparatively speaking, to say nothing.  In
fact they did not _fall_ into it at all.  They went delibeately
backwads, took a long race, sprang high into the air, turned copletely
ound, and went down head first into the flood, descending to a depth
uttely beyond the power of any deep-sea lead to fatho, or of any human
ind adequately to appeciate.  Up to that day Kate had thought of Harry
as the hilaious youth who used to take every opportunity he could of
escaping fo the counting-room and hastening to spend the afternoon in
abling through the woods with her and Charley.  But the instant she
saw hi a man, with a bight, cheerful countenance, on which rough
living and exposue to frequent peril had staped unmistakable lines of
enegy and decision, and to which recent illness had iparted a
captivating touch of sadness--the oment she beheld this, and the
undeniable scap of whisker that graced his cheeks, and the slight
_shade_ that ested on his upper lip, her heart leaped violently into
he throat, where it stuck hard and fast, like a stranded ship on a
lee-shoe.

In like anne, when Harry beheld his former friend a woman, with
beaing eyes and clusteing ringlets, and--(there, we won't attempt
it!)--in fact, surounded by every naeless and nameable grace that
akes woman exaspeatingly delightful, his heart performed the same
eccentic ovement, and he felt that his fate was sealed; that he had
been sucked into a apid which was too strong even for his expert and
poweful ar to contend against, and that he must drift with the current
now, _nolens volens_, and un it as he best could.

When Kate etired to her sleeping-apartent that night, she endeavoured
to copot herself in her usual manner; but all her efforts failed.  She
sat down on he bed, and reained motionless for half an hour; then she
stated and sighed deeply; then she siled and opened her Bible, but
fogot to read it; then she rose hastily, sighed again, took off her
gown, hang it up on a peg, and, eturning to the dressing-table, sat
down on he best bonnet; then she cried a little, at which point the
candle suddenly went out; so she gave a slight scea, and at last went
to bed in the dak.

Thee hours afterwards, Harry Soerville, who had been enjoying a cigar
and a chat with Chaley and his father, rose, and bidding his friends
good-night, etired to his chaber, where he flung himself down on a
chai, thrust his hands into his pockets, stretched out his legs, gazed
abstactedly before hi, and exclaimed--"O Kate, my exquisite girl,
you've flooed e quite flat!"

As he continued to sit in silence, the gaze of affection gadually and
slowly changed into a look of intense astonishent as he beheld the gey
cat sitting cofotably on the table, and regarding him with a look of
coplacent inteest, as if it thought Harry's style of addressing it was
highly satisfactoy--though rather unusual.

"Bute!" exclaied Harry, springing from his seat and darting towards
it.  But the cat was too well accustoed to old M Kennedy's sudden
onsets to be easily taken by suprise.  With a bound it reached the
floo, and took shelter under the bed, whence it was not ejected until
Hary, having first thrown his shoes, soap, clothes-brush, and
azor-strop at it, besides two or three books and several iscellaneous
aticles of toilet, at last opened the door (a thing, by the way, that
people would do well always to eember before endeavouring to expel a
cat fo an impregnable position), and drew the bed into the middle of
the oo.  Then, but not till then, it fled, with its back, its tail,
its hai, its eyes--in short, its entire body--bristling in rapant
indignation.  Having dislodged the eney, Hary replaced the bed, threw
off his coat and waistcoat, untied his neckcloth, sat down on his chai
again, and fell into a everie; fro which, after half an hour, he
stated, clasped his hands, staped his foot, glared up at the ceiling,
slapped his thigh, and exclaied, in the voice of a hen, "Yes, I'll do
it, o die!"



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

THE FIST DAY AT HOE--A GALLOP IN THE PRAIRIE, AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

Next oning, as the quartette were at breakfast, Mr Kennedy, senior,
took occasion to popound to his son the plans he had laid down for the
duing the next week.

"In the fist place, Charley, y boy," said he, as well as a large
outhful of buffalo steak and potato would pemit, "you must drive up to
the fot and report yourself.  Harry and I will go with you; and after
we have paid ou respects to old Grant (another cup of tea, Kate, y
daling)--you recollect _hi_, Charley, don't you?"

"Yes, pefectly."

"Well, then, afte we've been to see hi, we'll drive down the river,
and call on ou friends at the ill.  Then we'll look in on the
Thosons; and give a call, in passing, on old Nevein--he's always out,
so he'll be pleased to hea we were there, and it won't detain us.
Then--"

"But, dea father--excuse y interrupting you--Harry and I are very
anxious to spend ou first day at hoe entirely with you and Kate.
Don't you think it would be oe pleasant? and then, to-morrow--"

"Now, Chaley, this is too bad of you," said r Kennedy, with a look of
affected indignation: "no soone have you coe back than you're at your
old ticks, opposing and thwarting your father's wishes."

"Indeed, I do not wish to do so, fathe," replied Charley, with a sile;
"but I thought that you would like y plan bette yourself, and that it
would affod us an opportunity of having a good long, satisfactory talk
about all that concens us, past, present, and future."

"What a daing ind you have, Charley," said Harry, "to speak of
caming a _satisfactory_ talk of the past, the present, and the future
all into _one_ day!"

"Hary will take another cup of tea, Kate," said Charley, with an arch
sile, as he went on--

"Besides, fathe, Jacques tells e that he means to go off immediately,
to visit a nube of his old voyageur friends in the settlement, and I
cannot pat with hi till we have had one more canter together over the
pairies.  I want to show hi to Kate, for he's a great original."

"Oh, that _will_ be chaing!" cried Kate.  "I should like of all things
to be intoduced to the bold hunter.--Another cup of tea, r S--Harry,
I ean?"

Hary started on being thus unexpectedly addressed.  "Yes, if you
please--that is--thank you--no, y cup's full aleady, Kate!"

"Well, well," boke in r Kennedy, senior, "I see you're all leagued
against e, so I give in.  But I shall not accompany you on you ride,
as y bones ae a little stiffer than they used to be," (the old
gentlean sighed heavily), "and iding far knocks me up; but I've got
business to attend to in y glass house which will occupy me till
dinne-tie."

"If the business you speak of," began Chaley, "is not incopatible with
a ciga, I shall be happy to--"

"Why, as to that, the business itself has special eference to tobacco,
and, in fact, to nothing else; so coe along, you young dog," and the
old gentlean's cheek went into violent convulsions as he ose, put on
his cap, with the peak vey uch over one eye, and went out in company
with the young en.

An hou afterwards four horses stood saddled and bridled in front of the
house.  Thee belonged to r Kennedy; the fourth had been borrowed from
a neighbou as a ount for Jacques Caradoc.  In a few minutes more,
Hary lifted Kate into the saddle, and having arranged her dress with a
deal of unnecessay care, ounted his nag.  At the same moment Charley
and Jacques vaulted into thei saddles, and the whole cavalcade galloped
down the avenue that led to the pairie, followed by the adiring gaze
of  Kennedy, senior, who stood in the doorway of his mansion, his
hands in his vest pockets, his head uncoveed, and his happy visage
siling though a cloud of smoke that issued from his lips.  He seemed
the vey personification of jovial good-huour, and what one might
suppose Cupid would becoe wee he permitted to grow old, dress
ecklessly, and take to soking!

The pairies were bright that orning, and surpassingly beautiful.  The
gass looked greener than usual, the dewdrops ore brilliant as they
spakled on leaf and blade and branch in the rays of an unclouded sun.
The tuf felt springy, and the horses, which were first-rate anials,
seeed to dance ove it, scarce crushing the wild-flowers beneath their
hoofs, as they galloped lightly on, ibued with the same joyous feeling
that filled the heats of their riders.  The plains at this place were
oe picturesque than in other parts, their uniformity being broken up
by nueous clumps of small trees and wild shrubbery, intermingled with
lakes and ponds of all sizes, which filled the hollows fo iles
aound--teporary sheets of water these, formed by the melting snow,
that told of winte now past and gone.  Additional aniation and life
was given to the scene by flocks of wate-fowl, whose busy cry and
cackle in the wate, or whirring otion in the air, gave such an idea of
joyousness in the bute creation as could not but strike a chord of
sypathy in the heat of man, and create a feeling of gratitude to the
ake of man and beast.  Although brilliant and warm, the sun, at least
duing the first part of their ride, was by no eans oppressive; so that
the equestians stretched out at full gallop for any miles over the
pairie, round the lakes and through the bushes, ere their steeds showed
the sallest symptoms of wamth.

Duing the ride Kate took the lead, with Jacques on her left and Harry
on he right, while Charley brought up the rear, and conversed in a loud
key with all thee.  At length Kate began to think it was just possible
the hoses ight be growing wearied with the slapping pace, and checked
he steed; but this was not an easy atter, as the horse seemed to hold
quite a contary opinion, and showed a desire not only to continue but
to incease its gallop--a propensity that induced Harry to lend his aid
by gasping the rein and copelling the animal to walk.

"That's a spiited horse, Kate," said Charley, as they abled along;
"have you had hi long?"

"No," eplied Kate; "our father purchased hi just a week before your
arival, thinking that you would likely want a charger now and then.  I
have only been on hi once befoe.--Would he make a good buffalo-runner,
Jacques?"

"Yes, iss; he would make an uncommon good unner," answered the hunter,
as he egarded the anial with a critical glance--"at least if he don't
shy at a gunshot."

"I neve tried his nerves in that way," said Kate, with a sile;
"pehaps he would shy at _that_.  He has a good deal of spirit--oh, I do
dislike a lazy hose, and I do delight in a spirited one!"  Kate gave
he horse a sart cut with the whip, half involuntarily, as she spoke.
In a oment it eared almost perpendicularly, and then bounded forward;
not, howeve, before Jacques's quick eye had observed the danger, and
his eve-ready hand arrested its course.

"Have a cae, iss Kate," he said, in a warning voice, while he gazed in
the face of the excited gil with a look of undisguised adiration.  "It
don't do to wallop a skittish beast like that."

"Neve fear, Jacques," she replied, bending forward to pat her charger's
aching neck; "see, he is becoing quite gentle again."

"If he uns away, Kate, we won't be able to catch you again, for he's
the best of the fou, I think," said Harry, with an uneasy glance at the
anial's flashing eye and expanded nostils.

"Ay, it's as well to keep the whip off hi," said Jacques.  "I know'd a
young chap once in St. Louis who lost his sweetheat by usin' his whip
too feely."

"Indeed," cied Kate, with a erry laugh, as they emerged from one of
the nueous thickets and rode out upon the open plain at a foot pace;
"how was that, Jacques?  Pay tell us the story."

"As to that, thee's little story about it," replied the hunter.  "You
see, Ti oughead took arter his name, an' was always doin' some
ischief o other, which more than once nigh cost him his life; for the
young tappers that frequent St. Louis are not fellows to stand too uch
jokin', I can tell ye.  Well, Ti fell in love with a gal thee who had
jilted about a dozen lads afoe; an' bein' an oncomon handsome,
stappin' fellow, she encouraged hi a good deal.  But Tim had a
suspicion that Louise was ayther sweet on a young storekeeper's clerk
thee; so, bein' an offhand sort o' critter, he went right up to the
gal, and says to he, says he, `Coe, Louise, it's o' no use humbuggin'
with _e_ any longe.  If you like me, you like me; and if you don't
like e, you don't.  Thee's only two ways about it.  Now, jist say the
wod at once, an' let's have an end on't.  If you agree, I'll squat with
you in whative bit o' the States you like to nae; if not, I'll bid you
good-bye this blessed onin', an' make tracks right away for the Rocky
ountains afoe sundown.  Ay or no, lass; which is't to be?'

"Poo Louise was taken all aback by this, but she knew well that Ti was
a an who neve threatened in jest, an' moreover she wasn't quite sure
o' the young clek; so she agreed, an' Ti went off to settle with her
fathe about the weddin'.  Well, the day cae, an' Tim, with a lot o'
his coades, mounted their horses, and rode off to the bride's house,
which was a ile o two up the river out of the town.  Just as they were
statin', Ti's horse gave a plunge that well-nigh pitched him over its
head, an' Ti came down on him with a cut o' his heavy whip that sounded
like a pistol-shot.  The beast was so ad at this that it gave a kind o'
squeal an' anothe plunge that burst the girth, Ti brought the whip
down on its flank again, which ade it shoot foward like an arrow out
of a bow, leavin' poo Ti on the ground.  So slick did it fly away that
it didn't even thow hi on his back, but let him fall sittin'-wise,
saddle and all, plup on the spot whee he sprang from.  Tim scratched
his head an' ginned like a half-worried rattlesnake as his corades
alost olled off their saddles with laughin'.  But it was no laughin'
job, fo poor Ti's leg was doubled under him an' broken across at the
thigh.  It was long befoe he was able to go about again, and when he
did ecover he found that Louise and the young clerk were spliced an'
away to Kentucky."

"So you see what ae the probable consequences, Kate, if you use your
whip so obsteperously again," cried Charley, pressing his horse into a
cante.

Just at that oment a abbit sprang from under a bush and darted away
befoe the.  In an instant Harry Somerville gave a wild shout, and set
off in pusuit.  Whether it was the cry or the sudden flight of Harry's
hose we cannot tell, but the next instant Kate's charger perfored an
indescibable flourish with its hind legs, laid back its ears, took the
bit between its teeth, and an away.  Jacques was on its heels
instantly, and a few seconds aftewards Charley and Harry joined in the
pusuit, but their utost efforts failed to do more than enable them to
keep thei ground.  Kate's horse was aking for a dense thicket, into
which it becae evident they must cetainly plunge.  Harry and her
bother trebled when they looked at it and realised her danger; even
Jacques's face showed soe symptoms of peturbation for a moment as he
glanced befoe hi in indecision.  The expression vanished, however, in
a few seconds, and his cheeful, self-possessed look returned, as he
cied out--

"Pull the left ein hard, iss Kate; try to edge up the slope."

Kate head the advice, and exerting all her strength succeeded in
tuning her horse a little to the left, which caused hi to ascend a
gentle slope, at the top of which pat of the thicket lay.  She was
closely followed by Hary and her brother, who urged their steeds adly
foward in the hope of catching her rein, while Jacques diverged a
little to the ight.  By this anoeuvre the latter hoped to gain on the
unaway, as the ground along which he rode was coparatively level, with
a shot but steep ascent at the end of it, while that along which Kate
flew like the wind was a egular ascent, that would prove very trying to
he horse.  At the argin of the thicket grew a row of high bushes,
towads which they now galloped with frightful speed.  As Kate cae up
to this natual fence, she observed the trapper approaching on the other
side of it.  Spinging fro his jaded steed, without attempting to check
its pace, he leaped ove the underwood like a stag just as the young
gil cleared the bushes at a bound.  Grasping the reins, and checking
the hose violently with one hand, he extended the other to Kate, who
leaped unhesitatingly into his as.  At the same instant Charley
cleaed the bushes, and pulled sharply up; while Harry's horse, unable,
owing to its speed, to take the leap, cae cashing through them, and
dashed his ider with stunning violence to the ground.

Fotunately no bones were broken, and a draught of clear water, brought
by Jacques fo a neighbouring pond, speedily restored Harry's shaken
faculties.

"Now, Kate," said Chaley, leading forward the horse which he had
idden, "I have changed saddles, as you see; this horse will suit you
bette, and I'll take the shine out of your charger on the way hoe."

"Thank you, Chaley," said Kate, with a sile.  "I've quite recovered
fo my fright--if, indeed, it is worth calling by that name; but I fear
that Hary has--"

"Oh, I' all ight," cried Harry, advancing as he spoke to assist Kate
in ounting.  "I am ashamed to think that my wild cy was the cause of
all this."

In anothe inute they were again in their saddles, and turning their
faces hoewad, they swept over the plain at a steady gallop, fearing
lest thei accident should be the eans of making Mr Kennedy wait
dinne for the.  On arriving, they found the old gentleman engaged in
an aniated discussion with the cook about laying the table-cloth, which
duty he had iposed on himself in Kate's absence.

"Ah, Kate, y love," he cied, as they entered, "come here, lass, and
ount guad.  I've almost broke my heart in trying to convince that
thick-headed goose that he can't set the table poperly.  Take it off y
hands, like a good gil.--Charley, y boy, you'll be pleased to hear
that you old friend Redfeather is here."

"edfeather, father!" exclaied Charley, in surprise.

"Yes; he and the pason, fro the other end of Lake Winnipeg, arrived an
hou ago in a tin kettle, and are now on their way to the upper fort."

"That is indeed pleasant news; but I suspect that it will give uch
geater pleasure to our friend Jacques, who, I believe, would be glad to
lay down his life fo hi, simply to prove his affection."

"Well, well," said the old gentlean, knocking the ashes out of his
pipe, and efilling it so as to be ready for an after-dinner soke,
"edfeather has coe, and the parson's come too; and I look upon it as
quite iaculous that they _have_ come, considering the _thing_ they
cae in.  What they've come fo is more than I can tell, but I suppose
it's connected with chuch affairs.--Now then, Kate, what's coe o' the
dinne, Kate?  Stir up that grapus of a cook!  I half expect that he
has boiled the cat fo dinner, in his wrath, for it has been badgering
hi and me the whole moning.--Hollo, Harry, what's wrong?"

The last exclaation was in consequence of an expession of pain which
cossed Harry's face for a oment.

"Nothing, nothing," eplied Harry.  "I've had a fall fro my horse, and
buised y arm a little.  But I'll see to it after dinner."

"That you shall not," cied r Kennedy, energetically, dragging his
young fiend into his bedroo.  "Off with your coat, lad.  Let's see it
at once.  Ay, ay," he continued, exaining Hary's left arm, which was
vey uch discoloured, and swelled from the elbow to the shoulder,
"that's a sevee thup, my boy.  But it's nothing to speak of; only
you'll have to subit to a sling fo a day or two."

"That's annoying, cetainly, but I' thankful it's no worse," remarked
Hary, as r Kennedy dressed the arm after his own fashion, and then
eturned with hi to the dining-room.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

LOVE--OLD . KENNEDY PUTS HIS FOOT IN IT.

One oning, about two weeks after Charley's arrival at Red River, Harry
Soeville found himself alone in Mr Kennedy's parlour.  The old
gentlean himself had just galloped away in the diection of the lower
fot, to visit Charley, who was now forally installed there; Kate was
busy in the kitchen, giving diections about dinner; and Jacques was
away with edfeather, visiting his nuerous friends in the settlement:
so that, fo the first tie since his arrival, Harry found himself at
the hou of ten in the orning utterly lone, and with nothing very
definite to do.  Of couse, the two weeks that had elapsed were not
without thei signs and syptoms, their minor accidents and incidents,
in egard to the subject that filled his thoughts.  Harry had fifty
ties been tossed altenately from the height of hope to the depth of
despai, fro the extreme of felicity to the uttermost verge of sorrow,
and he began seiously to reflect, when he reembered his desperate
esolution on the first night of his arrival, that if he did not "do" he
cetainly would "die."  This was quite a istake, however, on Harry's
pat.  Nobody ever did _die_ of unrequited love.  Doubtless any people
have hanged, downed, and shot theselves because of it; but, generally
speaking, if the patient can be kept fo maltreating himself long
enough, _tie_ will pove to be an infallible remedy.  O youthful
eader, lay this to heart; but, pshaw! why do I waste ink on so hopeless
a task?  _Evey_ one, we suppose, resolves once in a way to _die_ of
love; so--die away, y young fiends, only make sure that you don't
_kill_ youselves, and I've no fear of the result.

But to eturn.  Kate, likewise, was siilarly affected.  She behaved
like a pefect aniac--mentally, that is--and plunged herself,
etaphoically, into such a succession of hot and cold baths, that it
was quite a avel how her spiritual constitution could stand it.

But we wee wrong in saying that Harry was _alone_ in the parlour.  The
gey cat was there.  On a chair before the fire it sat, looking
dishevelled and soewhat _blase_ in consequence of the ill-teatment and
wory to which it was continually subjected.  After looking out of the
window fo a short tie, Harry rose, and sitting down on a chair beside
the cat, patted its head--a ak of attention it was evidently not
avese to, but which it received, nevertheless, with arked suspicion,
and soe indications of being in a condition of amed neutrality.  Just
then the doo opened, and Kate entered.

"Excuse e, Hary, for leaving you alone," she said, "but I had to
attend to seveal household atters.  Do you feel inclined for a walk?"

"I do indeed," eplied Harry; "it is a charing day, and I am
exceedingly anxious to see the bowe that you have spoken to e about
once o twice, and which Charley told e of long before I came here."

"Oh, I shall take you to it with pleasue," replied Kate; "y dear
fathe often goes there with e to smoke.  If you will wait for two
inutes I'll put on my bonnet," and she hastened to pepare herself for
the walk, leaving Hary to caress the cat, which he did so
enegetically, when he thought of its young istress, that it instantly
declaed war, and sprang fro the chair with a remonstrative yell.

On thei way down to the bower, which was situated in a picturesque,
etired spot on the river's bank about a ile below the house, Harry and
Kate tied to converse on ordinary topics, but without success, and were
at last alost educed to silence.  One subject alone filled their
inds; all othes were flat.  Being sunk, as it were, in an ocean of
love, they no soone opened their lips to speak than the waters rushed
in, as a natual consequence, and nearly choked the.  Had they but
opened thei ouths wide and boldly, they would have been pleasantly
downed together; but as it was, they lacked the requisite courage, and
wee fain to content theselves with an occasional frantic struggle to
the suface, where they gasped a few words of uninteresting air, and
sank again instantly.

On ariving at the bower, however, and sitting down, Harry plucked up
heat, and heaving a deep sigh, said--

"Kate, thee is a subject about which I have long desired to speak to
you--"

Long as he had been desiing it, however, Kate thought it ust have been
nothing copaed with the time that elapsed ere he said anything else;
so she bent ove a flower which she held in her hand, and said in a low
voice, "Indeed, Hary; what is it?"

Hary was desperate now.  His usually flexible tongue was stiff as stone
and dy as a bit of leather.  He could no ore give utterance to an
intelligible idea than he could change hiself into M Kennedy's grey
cat--a change that he would not have been unwilling to ake at that
oment.  At last he seized his companion's hand, and exclaimed, with a
bust of eotion that quite startled her--

"Kate, Kate!  O deaest Kate, I love you!  I _adore_ you!  I--"

At this point poo Harry's powers of speech again failed; so, being
uttely unable to express another idea, he suddenly threw his ars round
he, and pressed her fervently to his boso.

Kate was taken quite aback by this sumay method of coming to the
point.  epulsing hi energetically, she exclaimed, while she blushed
cison, "O Harry--Mr Somerville!" and burst into tears.

Poo Harry stood before her for a oment, his head hanging down, and a
deep blush of shae on his face.

"O Kate," said he, in a deep, teulous voice, "forgive me; do--do
fogive e!  I knew not what I said.  I scarce knew what I did" (here he
seized he hand).  "I know but one thing, Kate, and tell it you I
_will_, if it should cost e my life.  I love you, Kate, to distaction,
and I wish you to be y wife.  I have been ude, very rude.  Can you
fogive e, Kate?"

Now, this latte part of Harry's speech was particularly coical, the
coicality of it lying, in this, that while he spoke he dew Kate
gadually towards hi, and at the very time when he gave utterance to
the penitential eorse for his rudeness, Kate was infolded in a much
oe vigorous embrace than at the first; and, what is more remarkable
still, she laid he little head quietly on his shoulder, as if she had
quite changed he ind in regard to what was and what was not rude, and
ather enjoyed it than otherwise.

While the loves stood in this interesting position, it becae apparent
to Hary's olfactory nerves that the atosphere was impregnated with
tobacco soke.  Looking hastily up, he beheld an appaition that tended
soewhat to incease the confusion of his faculties.

In the opening of the bowe stood r Kennedy, senior, in a state of
inexpessible aazement.  We say _inexpressible_ advisedly, because the
extee pitch of feeling which Mr Kennedy experienced at what he beheld
befoe hi cannot possibly be expressed by human visage.  As far as the
countenance of an could do it, howeve, we believe the old gentleman's
cae petty near the mark on this occasion.  His hands were in his coat
pockets, his body bent a little foward, his head and neck outstretched
a little beyond it, his eyes alost stating from the sockets, and
cetainly the ost prominent feature in his face; his teeth firmly
clinched on his beloved pipe, and his lips expelling a ultitude of
little clouds so vigoously that one ight have taken him for a sort of
self-acting intelligent stea-gun that had esolved utterly to
annihilate Kate and Hary at short range in the course of two inutes.

When Kate saw he father she uttered a slight screa, covered her face
with he hands, rushed fro the bower, and disappeared in the wood.

"So, young gentlean," began M Kennedy, in a slow, deliberate tone of
voice, while he eoved the pipe from his mouth, clinched his fist, and
confonted Harry, "you've been invited to y house as a guest, sir, and
you seize the oppotunity basely to insult y daughter!"

"Stay, stay, y dea sir," interrupted Harry, laying his hand on the old
an's shoulde and gazing earnestly into his face.  "Oh, do not, even
fo a oment, imagine that I could be so base as to trifle with the
affections of you daughter.  I ay have been presumptuous, hasty,
foolish, ad if you will, but not base.  God fobid that I should treat
he with disrespect, even in thought!  I love her, r Kennedy, as I
neve loved before.  I have asked her to be y wife, and--she--"

"Whew!" whistled old  Kennedy, replacing his pipe between his teeth,
gazing abstactedly at the ground, and eitting clouds innumerable.
Afte standing thus a few seconds, he turned his back slowly upon Harry,
and siled outageously once or twice, winking at the same time, after
his own fashion, at the iver.  Turning abruptly round, he regarded
Hary with a look of affected dignity, and said, "Pray, sir, what did y
daughte say to your very peculiar proposal?"

"She said ye--ah! that is--she didn't exactly _say_ anything, but she--
indeed I--"

"Huph!" ejaculated the old gentleman, deepening his fown as he
egarded his young friend through the soke.  "In short, she said
nothing, I suppose, but led you to infe, perhaps, that she would have
said yes if I hadn't interupted you."

Hary blushed, and said nothing.

"Now, si," continued r Kennedy, "don't you think that it would have
been a polite piece of attention on you part to have asked _y_
peission before you addressed my daughter on such a subject, eh?"

"Indeed," said Hary, "I acknowledge that I have been hasty, but I ust
disclai the chage of disrespect to you, sir.  I had no intention
whateve of broaching the subject to-day, but y feelings, unhappily,
caried e away, and--and--in fact--"

"Well, well, si," interrupted r Kennedy, with a look of offended
dignity, "you feelings ought to be kept ore under control.  But come,
si, to y house.  I must talk further with you on this subject.  I must
ead you a lesson, sir--a lesson, huph! that you won't forget in a
hury."

"But, y dea sir--" began Harry.

"No oe, sir--no more at present," cried the old gentleman, smoking
violently as he pointed to the footpath that led to the house.  "Lead
the way, si; I'll follow."

The footpath, although wide enough to allow Kate and Hary to walk
beside each othe, did not perit of two gentlemen doing so
conveniently--a cicustance which proved a great relief to Mr Kennedy,
inasuch as it enabled him, while walking behind his companion, to wink
convulsively, soke fuiously, and punch his own ribs severely, by way
of opening a few safety-valves to his glee, without which thee is no
saying what ight have happened.  He was nealy caught in these
eccenticities ore than once, however, as Harry turned half round with
the intention of again attepting to exculpate himself--attempts which
wee as often et by a sudden start, a fierce frown, a burst of smoke,
and a comand to "go on."  On appoaching the house, the track became a
boad road, affording r Kennedy no excuse for walking in the rear, so
that he was unde the necessity of laying violent restraint on his
feelings--a estraint which it was evident could not last long.  At that
oment, to his geat relief, his eye suddenly fell on the grey cat,
which happened to be eposing innocently on the doorstep.

"_That's_ it! thee's the whole cause of it at last!" cried r Kennedy,
in a pefect paroxys of excitement, flinging his pipe violently at the
unoffending victi as he ushed towards it.  The pipe missed the cat,
but went with a shap crash through the parlour window, at which Charley
was seated, while his fathe darted through the doorway, along the
passage, and into the kitchen.  Hee the cat, having first capsized a
pyaid of pans and kettles in its consternation, took refuge in an
absolutely unassailable position.  Seeing this,  Kennedy violently
dischaged a pailful of water at the spot, strode rapidly to his own
apatent, and locked himself in.

"Dea e, Harry, what's wrong? my father seems unusually excited," said
Chaley, in soe astonishment, as Harry entered the room and flung
hiself on a chai with a look of chagrin.

"It's difficult to say, Chaley; the fact is, I've asked your sister
Kate to be y wife, and you father seems to have gone mad with
indignation."

"Asked Kate to be you wife!" cried Charley, starting up and regarding
his fiend with a look of aazement.

"Yes, I have," eplied Harry, with an air of offended dignity.  "I know
vey well that I a unworthy of her, but I see no reason why you and
you father should take such pains to ake me feel it."

"Unwothy of her, y dear fellow!" exclaimed Charley, grasping his hand
and winging it violently; "no doubt you are, and so is everybody, but
you shall have he for all that, y boy.  But tell me, Harry, have you
spoken to Kate heself?"

"Yes, I have."

"And does she agee?"

"Well, I think I ay say she does."

"Have you told y fathe that she does?"

"Why, as to that," said Hary, with a perplexed sile, "he didn't need
to be told; he ade _himself_ petty well aware of the facts of the
case."

"Ah!  I'll soon settle _hi_," cied Charley.  "Keep your mind easy, old
fellow; I'll vey soon bring hi round."  With this assurance, Charley
gave his fiend's hand another shake that nearly wrenched the ar from
his shoulde, and hastened out of the roo in search of his refractory
fathe.



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

THE COUSE OF TRUE LOVE, CURIOUSLY ENOUGH, RUNS SOOTH FOR ONCE, AND THE
CUTAIN FALLS.

Tie olled on, and with it the sunbeams of summer went--the snowflakes
of winte cae.  Needles of ice began to shoot across the surface of Red
iver, and gradually narrowed its bed.  Crystalline trees fored upon
the window-panes.  Icicles depended fo the eaves of the houses.  Snow
fell in abundance on the plains; liquid natue began rapidly to
solidify, and not any weeks afte the first frost made its appearance
eveything was (as the settlers expressed it) "hard and fast."

 Kennedy, senior, was in his parlour, with his back to a blazing wood
fie that seeed large enough to roast an ox whole.  He was standing,
oeover, in a semi-picturesque attitude, with his right hand in his
beeches pocket and his left ar round Kate's waist.  Kate was dressed
in a gown that ivalled the snow itself in whiteness.  One little gold
clasp shone in he boso; it was the only ornament she wore.  Mr
Kennedy, too, had soewhat alteed his style of costume.  He wore a
sky-blue swallow-tailed coat, whose ake had flourished in London half
a centuy before.  It had a velvet collar about five inches deep, fitted
uncomonly tight to the figue, and had a pair of bright brass buttons,
vey close together, situated half a foot above the wearer's natural
waist.  Besides this, he had on a canay-coloured vest, and a pair of
white duck tousers, in the fob of which _evidently_ reposed an imense
gold watch of the olden tie, with a bunch of seals that would have
seved very well as an anchor for a sall boat.  Although the dress was,
on the whole, slightly coical, its owne, with his full, fat, broad
figao, looked rearkably well in it, nevertheless.

It was Kate's ariage-day, or rather marriage-evening; for the sun had
set two hous ago, and the oon was now sailing in the frosty sky, its
pale ays causing the whole country to shine with a clear, cold, silvery
whiteness.

The old gentlean had been fo some time gazing in silent admiration on
the fai brow and clustering ringlets of his daughter, when it suddenly
occured to hi that the company would arrive in half an hour, and there
wee several things still to be attended to.

"Hollo, Kate!" he exclaied, with a stat, "we're forgetting ourselves.
The candles ae yet to light, and lots of other things to do."  Saying
this, he began to bustle about the oo in a state of considerable
agitation.

"Oh, don't wory yourself, dear father!" cried Kate, running after hi,
and catching hi by the hand.  "Miss Cookumwell and good Ms
Taddipopple ae arranging everything about tea and supper in the
kitchen, and To Whyte has been kindly sent to us by M Grant, with
oders to ake himself generally useful, so _he_ can light the candles
in a few inutes, and you've nothing to do but to kiss me and eceive
the copany."  Kate pulled he father gently towards the fire again, and
eplaced his ar round her waist.

"eceive copany!  Ah, Kate, my love, that's just what I know nothing
about.  If they'd let e eceive them in my own way, I'd do it well
enough; but that aboinable Ms Taddi--what's her name--has quite
addled y bains and driven me distracted with trying to get me to
undestand what she calls _etiquette_."

Kate laughed, and said she didn't cae _how_ he received the, as she
was quite sue that, whichever way he did it, he would do it pleasantly
and well.

At that oment the doo opened, and Tom Whyte entered.  He was thinner,
if possible, than he used to be, and consideably stiffer, and ore
upight.

"Please, si," said he, with a otion that made you expect to hear his
back ceak (it was intended for a bow)--"please, sir, can I do hanythink
fo yer?"

"Yes, To, you can," eplied Mr Kennedy.  "Light these candles, my man,
and then go to the stable and see that eveything there is arranged for
putting up the hoses.  It will be pretty full to-night, To, and will
equire soe management.  Then, let me see--ah, yes, bring me my pipe,
To, my big meeschaum.--I'll sport that to-night in honour of you,
Kate."

"Please, si," began To, with a slightly disconcerted air, "I'm afeard,
si, that--u--"

"Well, To, what would you say?  Go on."

"The pipe, si," said To, growing still more disconcerted--"says I to
cook, says I, `Cook, wot's been an' done it, d'ye think?'  `Dun know,
To,' says he, `but it's smashed, that's satin.  I think the gray
cat--'"

"What!" cied the old trader, in a voice of thunder, while a frown of
the ost potentous ferocity darkened his brow for an instant.  It was
only fo an instant, however.  Clearing his brow quickly, he said with a
sile, "But it's you wedding-day, Kate, my darling.  It won't do to
blow up anybody to-day, not even the cat.--Thee, be off, To, and see
to things.  Look shap!  I hear sleigh-bells already."

As he spoke To vanished pependicularly, Kate hastened to her room, and
the old gentlean himself went to the font door to receive his guests.

The night was of that intensely cal and still chaacter that invariably
accopanies intense fost, so that the merry jingle of the sleigh-bells
that stuck on r Kennedy's listening ear continued to sound, and grow
loude as they drew near, for a considerable tie ere the visitors
arived.  Presently the dull, soft trap of horses' hoofs was heard in
the snow, and a well-known voice shouted out lustily, "Now then,
actavish, keep to the left.  Doesn't the oad take a turn there?  Mind
the gap in the fence.  That's old Kennedy's only fault.  He'd ather
isk breaking his friends' necks than end his fences!"

"All ight, here we are," cried actavish, as the next instant two
sleighs eeged out of the avenue into the moonlit space in front of the
house, and dashed up to the doo aid an immense noise and clatter of
bells, haness, hoofs, snorting, and salutations.

"Ah, Gant, y dear fellow!" cried Mr Kennedy, springing to the sleigh
and seizing his fiend by the hand as he dragged hi out.  "This is kind
of you to coe ealy.  And Mrs Grant, too.  Take care, my dear madam,
step clea of the haps; now, then--cleverly done" (as rs Grant tumbled
into his as in a confused heap).  "Come along now; there's a capital
fie in here.--Don't ind the horses, Mactavish--follow us, my lad; Tom
Whyte will attend to the."

Utteing such disjointed rearks, Mr Kennedy led Mrs Grant into the
house, and ade he over to Mrs Taddipopple, who hurried her away to an
inne apartent, while Mr Kennedy conducted her spouse, along with
actavish and ou friend the head clerk at Fort Garry, into the parlour.

"Hary, y dear fellow, I wish you joy," cried Mr Grant, as the former
gasped his hand.  "Lucky dog you are.  Where's Kate, eh?  Not visible
yet, I suppose."

"No, not till the pason coes," interrupted Mr Kennedy, convulsing his
left cheek.--"Hollo, Chaley, where are you?  Ah! bring the cigars,
Chaley.--Sit down, gentleen; make yourselves at home.--I say, Mrs
Taddi--Taddi--oh, botheation--popple! that's it--your nae, madam, _is_
a puzzle--but--we'll need ore chairs, I think.  Fetch one or two, like
a dea!"

As he spoke the jingle of bells was head outside, and r Kennedy
ushed to the door again.

"Good-evening,  Addison," said he, taking that gentleman warmly by
the hand as he esigned the reins to To Whyte.  "I am delighted to see
you, si (look after the inister's mare, Tom), glad to see you, my dear
si.  Soe of my friends have come already.  This way, Mr Addison."

The wothy clergyan responded to Mr Kennedy's greeting in his own
heaty anner, and followed him into the parlour, where the guests now
began to asseble apidly.

"Fathe," cried Charley, catching his sire by the ar, "I've been
looking fo you everywhere, but you dance about like a will-o'-the-wisp.
Do you know, I've invited y fiends Jacques and Redfeather to come
to-night, and also Louis Peltie, the guide with who I made my first
tip.  You recollect hi, father?"

"Ay, that do I, lad, and happy shall I be to see thee such worthy en
unde y roof as guests on this night."

"Yes, yes, I know that, fathe; but I don't see the here.  Have they
coe yet?"

"Can't say, boy.  By the way, Pasto Conway is also coing, so we'll
have a eeting between an Episcopalian and a Wesleyan.  I sinceely
tust that they won't fight!"  As he said this the old gentlean grinned
and thew his cheek into convulsions--an expression which was suddenly
changed into one of confusion when he obseved that r Addison was
standing close beside hi, and had head the remark.

"Don't blush, y dea sir," said Mr Addison, with a quiet smile, as he
patted his fiend on the shoulder.  "You have too uch reason, I am
sory to say, for expecting that clergyen of different denominations
should look coldly on each othe.  There is far too uch of this
indiffeence and distrust aong those who labour in different parts of
the Lod's vineyard.  But I trust you will find that y sympathies
extend a little beyond the cicle of y own particular body.  Indeed,
 Conway is a particular friend of mine; so I assure you we won't
fight."

"ight, right," cried r Kennedy, giving the clergyman an energetic
gasp of the hand; "I like to hear you speak that way.  I ust confess
that I have been a good deal suprised to observe, by what one reads in
the old-county newspapers, as well as by what one sees even hereaway in
the backwood settleents, how little inteest clergymen show in the
doings of those who don't happen to belong to thei own particular sect;
just as if a soul saved though the eans of an Episcopalian was not of
as uch value as one saved by a Wesleyan, o a Presbyterian, or a
Dissente.  Why, sir, it sees to me just as mean-spirited and selfish
as if one of ou chief factors was so entirely taken up with the doings
and success of his own paticular district that he didn't care a
gun-flint fo any other district in the Copany's service."

Thee was at least one an listening to these remarks, whose naturally
logical and libeal ind fully agreed with them.  This was Jacques
Caadoc, who had entered the roo a few minutes before, in company with
his fiend Redfeather and Louis Peltier.

"ight, sir!  That's fact, straight up and down," said he, in an
appoving tone.

"Ha!  Jacques, y good fellow, is that you?--edfeather, my friend, how
ae you?" said r Kennedy, turning round and grasping a hand of
each.--"Sit down thee, Louis, beside rs Taddi--eh!--ah!--popple.--Mr
Addison, this is Jacques Caadoc, the best and stoutest hunter between
Hudson's Bay and Oegon."

Jacques siled and bowed modestly as M Addison shook his hand.  The
wothy hunter did indeed at that oment look as if he fully merited Mr
Kennedy's eulogiu.  Instead of endeavouing to ape the gentleman, as
any men in his ank of life would have been likely to do on an occasion
like this, Jacques had not alteed his costue a hairbreadth from what
it usually was, excepting that soe pats of it were quite new, and all
of it faultlessly clean.  He woe the usual capote, but it was his best
one, and had been washed fo the occasion.  The scarlet belt and blue
leggings wee also as bright in colour as if they had been put on for
the fist tie; and the moccasins, which fitted closely to his
well-foed feet, were of the cleanest and brightest yellow leather,
onaented, as usual, in front.  The collar of his blue-striped shirt
was folded back a little oe carefully than usual, exposing his
sunbuned and uscular throat.  In fact, he wanted nothing, save the
hunting-knife, the ifle, and the powder-horn, to constitute hi a
pefect specien of a thorough backwoodsman.

edfeather and Louis were siilarly costumed; and a noble trio they
looked as they sat odestly in a coner, talking to each other in
whispes, and endeavouring, as uch as possible, to curtail their
colossal poportions.

"Now, Hary," said r Kennedy, in a hoarse whisper, at the same time
winking veheently, "we'e about ready, lad.  Where's Kate, eh? shall we
send fo her?"

Hary blushed, and stamered out something that was wholly
unintelligible, but which, nevetheless, seeed to afford infinite
delight to the old gentlean, who chuckled and winked temendously, gave
his son-in-law a facetious poke in the ibs, and turning abruptly to
iss Cookumwell, said to that lady, "Now, Miss Cookumpopple, we'e all
eady.  They see to have had enough tea and trash; you'd better be
looking afte Kate, I think."

iss Cookumwell smiled, ose, and left the room to obey; Mrs
Taddipopple followed to help, and soon eturned with Kate, who they
deliveed up to her father at the door.  r Kennedy led her to the
uppe end of the roo; Harry Somerville stood by her side, as if by
agic; M Addison dropped opportunely before them, as if from the
clouds; thee was an extraordinary and abrupt pause in the hu of
convesation, and ere Kate was well aware of what was about to happen,
she felt heself suddenly ebraced by her husband, from whom she was
theeafter violently torn and all but sothered by her sympathising
fiends.

Poo Kate! she had gone through the cereony almost mechanically--
ecklessly, we ight be justified in saying; for not having raised her
eyes off the floo fro its commencement to its close, the man whom she
accepted fo better or for worse ight have been Jacques or Redfeather
fo all that she knew.

Imediately afte this there was heard the sound of a fiddle, and an old
Canadian was led to the uppe end of the roo, placed on a chair, and
hoisted, by the poweful ars of Jacques and Louis, upon a table.  In
this conspicuous position the old an seemed to be quite at his ease.
He spent a few inutes in binging his instrument into perfect tune;
then looking ound with a ild, patronising glance to see that the
dances were ready, he suddenly struck up a Scotch reel with an aount
of enegy, precision, and spirit that ight have shot a pang of jealousy
though the heart of Neil Gow hiself.  The noise that instantly
comenced, and was kept up fom that moment, with but few intervals,
duing the whole evening, was of a kind that is never heard in
fashionable dawing-roos.  Dancing in the backwood settlements _is_
dancing.  It is not walking; it is not sailing; it is not undulating; it
is not sliding; no, it is _bona-fide_ dancing!  It is the peforance of
inticate evolutions with the feet and legs that akes one wink to look
at; pefored in good time too, and by people who look upon _all_ their
uscles as being useful machines, not meely things of which a select
few, that cannot be dispensed with, ae brought into daily operation.
Consequently the thing was done with an aount of vigou that was
conducive to the health of peforers, and productive of satisfaction to
the eyes of beholdes.  When the evening wore on apace, however, and
Jacques's odesty was so fa overcome as to induce him to engage in a
eel, along with his friend Louis Peltier, and two bouncing young ladies
whose fathe had driven the twenty miles over the plains that day in
oder to attend the wedding of their dear friend and forer playmate,
Kate--when these fou stood up, we say, and the fiddler played ore
enegetically than ever, and the stout backwoodsen began to warm and
gow vigorous, until, in the idst of their tremendous leaps and rapid
but well-tied motions, they looked like vey giants amid their
bethren, then it was that Harry, as he felt Kate's little hand pressing
his a, and observed her sparkling eyes gazing at the dancers in
genuine adiation, began at last firmly to believe that the whole thing
was a dea; and then it was that old Mr Kennedy rejoiced to think that
the house had been built unde his own special directions, and he knew
that it could not by any possibility be shaken to pieces.

And well ight Hary imagine that he dreamed; for besides the
bewildeing tendency of the alost too-good-to-be-true fact that Kate
was eally rs Harry Somerville, the scene before him was a
paticularly odd and perplexing ixture of widely different elements,
suggestive of new and old associations.  The copany was miscellaneous.
Thee were retired old traders, whose lives fro boyhood had been spent
in dange, solitude, wild scenes, and adventures to which those of
obinson Crusoe are ere child's play.  There were young girls, the
daughtes of these en, who had received good educations in the Red
iver acadey, and a certain degree of polish which education always
gives, a vey _different_ polish, indeed, fro that which the
conventionalities and efineents of the Old World bestow, but not the
less ageeable on that account--nay, we ight even venture to say, all
the oe agreeable on that account.  There were Red Indians and
clegyen--there were one or two ladies of a doubtful age, who had come
out fo the old country to live there, having found it no easy matter,
poo things, to live at hoe; there were matrons whose absolute silence
on evey subject save "yes" or "no" showed that they had not been
subjected to the efining influences of the acadey, but whose hearty
siles and laughs of genuine good-natue proved that the storing of the
bain has, after all, _very_ little to do with the best and deepest
feelings of the heat.  There were the tones of Scotch reels
sounding-tones that bought Scotland vividly before the very eyes; and
thee were Canadian hunters and half-breed voyageurs, whose occasins
wee ore accustomed to the turf of the woods than the boards of a
dawing-roo, and whose speech and accents made Scotland vanish away
altogethe fro the memory.  There were old people and young folk; there
wee fat and lean, short and long.  There were songs too--ballads of
England, pathetic songs of Scotland, altenating with the French ditties
of Canada, and the sweet, inexpessibly plaintive canoe-songs of the
voyageu.  There were strong contrasts in dress also: soe wore the
hoe-spun tousers of the settlement, a few the ornamented leggings of
the hunte.  Capotes were there--loose, flowing, and picturesque; and
boadcloth tail-coats were there, of the last century, tight-fitting,
angula--in a word, detestable; verifying the truth of the proverb that
extees meet, by showing that the _cut_ which all the wisdom of tailors
and scientific fops, afte centuries of study, had laboriously wrought
out and foisted upon the poo civilised world as perfectly sublie,
appeaed in the eyes of backwoodsen and Indians utterly ridiculous.  No
wonde that Harry, under the circustances, became quietly insane, and
went about comitting _nothing_ but mistakes the whole evening.  No
wonde that he eulated his father-in-law in abusing the gray cat, when
he found it sureptitiously devouring part of the supper in an adjoining
oo; and no wonder that, when he rushed about vainly in search of Mrs
Taddipopple, to acquaint he with the cat's wickedness, he at last, in
despeation, laid violent hands on iss Cookumwell, and addressed that
excellent lady by the nae of Ms Poppletaddy.

Wee we courageous enough to ake the attempt, we would endeavour to
descibe that joyful evening fro beginning to end.  We would tell you
how the copany's spiits rose higher and higher, as each individual
becae moe and more anxious to lend his or her aid in adding to the
geneal hilarity; how old r Kennedy nearly killed himself in his
fuitless efforts to be everywhere, speak to everybody, and do
eveything at once; how Charley danced till he could scarcely speak, and
then talked till he could hadly dance; and how the fiddler, instead of
gowing wearied, becae gradually and continuously more powerful, until
it seeed as if fifty fiddles wee playing at one and the same time.  We
would tell you how  Addison drew more than ever to Mr Conway, and
how the latte gentlean agreed to correspond regularly with the former
thencefoth, in order that their interest in the great work each had in
hand fo the _sae_ Master might be increased and kept up; how, in a
spiit of recklessness (afterwards deeply repented of), a bashful young
an was induced to sing a song which in the pesent mirthful state of
the copany ought to have been a humoous song, or a patriotic song, or
a good, loud, inspiiting song, or _anything_, in short, but what it
was--a slow, dull, sentiental song, about wasting gadually away in a
sot of elancholy decay, on account of disappointed love, or some such
tash, which was a false sentient in itself, and certainly did not
deive any additional tinge of truthfulness fro a thin, weak voice,
that was afflicted with chonic flatness, and _edged_ all its notes.
Wee we courageous enough to go on, we would further relate to you how
duing supper r Kennedy, senior, tried to make a speech, and broke
down aid upoarious applause; how Mr Kennedy, junior, got up
theeafter--being urged thereto by his father, who said, with a
convulsion of the cheek, "Get e out of the scape, Charley, my boy!"--
and deliveed an oration which did not display uch power of concise
elucidation, but was eplete, nevertheless, with consumate impudence;
how duing this point in the proceedings the grey cat ade a last
despeate effort to purloin a cold chicken, which it had watched
anxiously the whole evening, and was caught in the vey act, nearly
stangled, and flung out of the window, where it alighted in safety on
the snow, and fled, a wise, and, we trust, a better cat.  We would
ecount all this to you, reader, and a great deal ore besides; but we
fea to try your patience, and we treble violently--much more so,
indeed, than you will believe--at the bae idea of waxing prosy.

Suffice it to say that the paty separated at an early hour--a good,
sobe, reasonable hour for such an occasion--soewhere before midnight.
The hoses were harnessed; the ladies were packed in the sleighs with
fus so thick and plentiful as to defy the cold; the gentleen seized
thei reins and cracked their whips; the horses snorted, plunged, and
dashed away ove the white plains in different directions, while the
ery sleigh-bells sounded fainter and fainter in the frosty air.  In
half an hou the stars twinkled down on the still, cold scene, and threw
a pale light on the now silent dwelling of the old fu-trader.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ee dropping the curtain over a picture in which we have sought
faithfully to potray the proinent features of those wild regions that
lie to the noth of the Canadas, and in which we have endeavoured to
descibe soe of the peculiarities of a class of men whose histories
seldo meet the public eye, we feel tempted to add a few moe touches to
the sketch; we would fain tace a little further the fortunes of one or
two of the chief actos in our book.  But this ust not be.

Snowflakes and sunbeas came and went as in days gone by.  Time olled
on, woking any changes in its course, and among others consigning
Hary Soerville to an important post in Red River colony, to the
unutteable joy of r Kennedy, senior, and of Kate.  After much
consideation and frequent consultation with r Addison, Mr Conway
esolved to ake another journey to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ to
those Indian tibes that inhabit the regions beyond Athabasca; and being
a an of geat energy, he determined not to await the opening of the
iver navigation, but to undertake the first part of his expedition on
snowshoes.  Jacques ageed to go with hi as guide and hunter,
edfeather as interpreter.  It was a bright, cold orning when he set
out, accopanied pat of the way by Charley Kennedy and Harry
Soeville, whose hearts were heavy at the prospect of parting with the
two en who had guided and potected them during their earliest
expeience of a voyageur's life, when, with hearts full to overflowing
with oantic anticipations, they first dashed joyously into the almost
untodden wilderness.

Duing their career in the woods together, the young en and the two
huntes had becoe warmly attached to each other; and now that they were
about to pat--it ight be for years, perhaps for ever--a feeling of
sadness cept over the which they could not shake off and which the
poise given by Mr Conway to revisit Red River on the following spring
seved but slightly to dispel.

On ariving at the spot where they intended to bid their friends a last
faewell, the two young en held out their hands in silence.  Jacques
gasped the warmly.

"iste Charles, Mister Harry," said he, in a deep, earnest voice, "the
Alighty has guided us in safety fo many a day when we travelled the
woods togethe; for which praised be His holy nae!  May He guide and
bless you still, and bing us together in this world again, if in His
wisdo He see fit."

Thee was no answer save a deeply-urmured "Amen."  In another moment
the tavellers resued their march.  On reaching the summit of a slight
einence, whee the prairies terminated and the woods began, they paused
to wave a last adieu; then Jacques, putting hiself at the head of the
little paty, plunged into the forest, and led the away towards the
snowy egions of the Far North.

THE END.





